ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e28	Three permit applications are available: on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli For Hedmark County: Grethe G. Fossum For Nord-Trøndelag County: Jon Olav Alstad
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e64	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e67	On behalf of the representative Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for the sale of selected holdings in Statskog SF in order to improve the nutritional basis for farmers and local forest owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e72	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e75	On behalf of Lena Jensen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on different models of post-secondary education and greater freedom to choose different schemes in relation to the main model.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e80	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e103	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Odd Einar DørumEinar SteensnæsLaila Davøy The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e122	I have a question for State Council Steensnæs, because gas power plants have again become a very hot topic. And just to make it clear in the beginning: the working party is of course for us to use it at any time the most environmentally friendly technology available. That's why we've also spent money researching this. Whenever I want to ask questions, it's because the government has created significant confusion and uncertainty about its view of gas power cases and whether they actually follow up the Storting decision. It was e.g. The Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party that had to push the Council of State into place to give Natural Force more time. I have also read Prime Minister Bondevik's posts in Dagbladet on 14 February of this year, where he writes that «polluting gas power plants are fired into the blue world». At the same time, the Government has proposed to build a gas power plant on Snow White in Finnmark. It is the Workers' Party for, but in this respect the State Council has Steensnæs written in a letter to the Committee that that plant will emit 900 000 tonnes of CO2 annually. State Council Steensnæs believes this is a CO2-free gas power plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e131	The government will, of course, follow the decision of the Storting. It is at the bottom of all decisions taken by the Government — including in the case of gas power stations. In the case of Snow White, it is clarified in the Sem Declaration, which is the political basis of the Government. The representative Brustad and Stortinget will also know that in those negotiations the Christian People's Party, Left and Right joined forces to limit the number of conventional gas power plants to the four that the representative Brustad mentioned. I am pleased with what the Workers' Party has explained in terms of support for the development of CO2-free gas power plants. But I have to say that there is considerable doubt as to whether the Workers' Party as a whole is responsible for this, as there was a positive response from the representative Brustad, who was replied by the representative Akselsen, who went in a completely different direction. The right, Christian People's Party and Left have gathered on one common platform in the field of CO2-free gas power plants, a policy that is different from the policy advocated by the government of Stoltenberg. It is in three areas: firstly, we have limited the number of gas power plants built according to conventional technology to the four I have mentioned. Secondly, we have established a framework for the generation of CO2-free gas power plants. The Workers' Party has come after some representatives, and I am very pleased about that, but I need Brustad's confirmation that this is the Labour Party's policy. And thirdly, we have said that the Pollution Act § 18 -3 should be given significant weight when assessing the emissions permit, i.e. those who are to build these gas power stations must be prepared for increased emission requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e142	Now it's a known technique that attack is the best defense. But the Council of State did not answer the question I asked, and I can repeat it: Does the Council of State think that the gas power plant that is now to be built on Snow White, with an annual emissions of 900,000 tonnes of CO2, is a CO2-free gas power plant? Then I would also say that I feel that the government here speaks with two tongues. We can quickly agree that when the technology is there, we're going to use it to build CO2-free, including demonstration facilities. But isn't it also the case, Councillor Steensnæs, that Statoil has said that it is on Kårstø it is most appropriate to build a demonstration plant, and not on Snow White? I actually expect the government to speak with one tongue, and act fairly in relation to what is to be built and not built. At Snow White, the gas power plant that is now planned there and that the Government has proposed – and I assume that the entire Government is behind it – is not a CO2-free gas power plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e149	Both the representative Brustad and I have answered the question that Brustad is now asking again. I said that it was the four gas power stations that the three cooperating parties agreed to be built according to conventional technology. The representative Brustad himself said that this on Snow White will emit 900000 tonnes of CO2, and that is also true. In other words – self-evident – not a CO2-free gas power plant. This does not prevent us from inviting the operator to join a pilot project to see if we can reduce that CO2 emission. We are in dialogue with Statoil on that. If it is not related to Snow White, I have also said in a letter to Stortinget that I am interested in a dialogue with Statoil about another place where such a pilot can be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e154	If we're going to raise so many main questions that we're pretty much in line with all the people who've signed up, the president has to try to limit the number of follow-up questions. Therefore, there will be a maximum of two follow-up questions. There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e159	In a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee in connection with Snow White, the Council of State states that in a normal year we have a deficit of 6-7 TWh, while there are also no special prospects for increased production in the future. At the same time, he admits that the growth in consumption will continue, and he therefore advises against electrification of the Snow White system. He also writes that this will lead to increased power input from abroad, as we lack power in the domestic market. The consequence of this is an increase in power generation in other countries, which will come from coal or fossil-based power generation. The Council then concludes that increased power imports for this purpose will therefore not point towards reduced CO2 emissions. Of course, I agree with that conclusion, but why does the Council of State not conclude in this way with regard to the other gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e166	When it comes to Snow White, I'll come back to it. I do not answer directly to Snow White questions as this is the case in Stortinget. However, with regard to the issue raised by the representative, Mr. Waksdal, I believe that he mixes the cards. In the short term, it is not possible to supply as much electricity as possible to Snow White within the timescale to which the Government is going to relate, without this leading to problematic energy production abroad. An electrification of Snow White will have to lead to increased imports for the reasons I have explained. In the long term, however, in my view, we have time to supply the Norwegian power network with CO2-free gas power. We have time for that, because next to investing in gas power, we're going to bet on new renewable energy sources, we're going to bet on an increment, we're going to bet on upgrading the ordinary hydropower plants, and we're going to strengthen the link with the rest of the world. All of these five elements that I have mentioned as part of a strategy to improve the power balance give us the time to develop the CO2-free gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e176	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e179	I want to say that I am pleased that the Council of State is taking away from the Prime Minister's statement that gas power plants are pushed into the blue. One should be good at talking to sell bad goods, it's said. I understand that's what the Minister of Energy is trying to do on energy issues. The Council of State has submitted St. Prp. No 35 for 2001-2002 on the development of Snow White. It is the proposal of the Minister of Oil and Energy that is now being dealt with in the Storting. No one but the minister himself has presented this. That's why I read in the newspaper Friday February 15th that Steensnæs says: ‘I am skeptical of Snow White, but in government, and we follow up what is in the Sem Declaration.’ I have to ask, is the Council of State behind its own proposition, or has the Right taken the lead in all the departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e191	I do not distance myself from the Prime Minister's description, it is correct as far as it applies in a polar form, namely that it is not realistic and also not commercially possible to build the conventional gas power plants today. It has ended up with natural force as its conclusion. Industrial power Mid-Norway has not yet reported anything, but they are facing the same challenges of bringing the economy together. The fact that it is not possible to build conventional gas power plants today is correct. And it's not safe when this can be built at all. That was the content of the Prime Minister's statement, and I fully support it. As far as the representative of Klungland is concerned, he mixes the cards. I believe that it is possible to build the CO2-free gas power plants in the long term. In the short term, there is only one option, namely to supply Snow White with the necessary force through the conventional gas power stations available, and that is what is in the Snow White setting. I'll get it back to March 7th.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e198	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e201	In the spring of 1997, Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland took an important step in the matter of gas power. He created a completely new practice that meant that Naturkraft AS could not start building a gas power plant until all the emission permits were in place. For the environment, it was an important victory. Pollution authorities are clearly freer to impose environmental requirements on an unbuilt gas power plant. In the Snow White case, the government of Bondevik has fallen back on old practice. Statoil is allowed to start the construction of Snow White once the concession has been granted and before the emission request has been sent. Can't the Government and the State Council Steensnæs completely independent of the treatment of the Storting take the same grip, a Jagland grip, in the Snow White case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e208	I would also like to take this opportunity to complement my reply to the representative of Klungland. I acknowledge that I have been skeptical of Snow White. Everyone knows about the Christian People's Party's position on this project, but this party has also entered into negotiations with two other parties, and the basis for Government policy on both Snow White and Oil and Energy Policy for the rest is the Sem document. On that basis, I am responsible for implementing the government's policy, and I support what is the government's policy. By reviewing the Snow White project, I see that I can fully defend the conclusions I have drawn there. By going through all aspects of the Snow White project, I cannot see that the environmental considerations and climate considerations that need to be addressed have not been properly addressed, so that I can recommend the conclusion that the Government has reached at this point. I would also like to say that in the case of Snow White, I have little sense that we should pre-prosecute this in the oral Question Time. Under the Rules of Procedure, a case referred to the Grand Duchy shall be dealt with in that context and shall not be preliminary to the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e217	I am recording that the Council of State says that he has gone through all sides of this, and he says that despite the fact that Statoil has not yet sent a discharge request in connection with the Snow White Development. That application will concern emissions to air and emissions to water. In fact, what discharges into water are currently unclear. It could be about alkylphenols, which we know can be involved and affect the hormone balance of cod. We also know that it is going to be about large emissions of the dangerous greenhouse gas CO2. These are not the issues that lie in the concession, nor are they dealt with in the Storting right now, they are in the emissions permit. Can the Council of State explain to me the logic that when a gas power plant is to be built in the West or in Trøndelag, all emission permits shall be in place before the start of construction, while if one is to build the same type of gas power plant in Finnmark, can the builders start the day after the concession has been granted? And why should the government of Bondevik set lower environmental standards for Snow White than the government of Jagland set to Natural Power?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e224	Before the President passes the word on to the Council of State, the President will only note that it is obvious that the Council of State chooses what he will answer. However, the President is not aware that the regulation states that there is no way to talk about matters that are being dealt with in Stortinget. However, what the Council of State considers it reasonable to comment on in relation to the current treatment will be up to the Council of State to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e227	I take note of that, but these are very important and serious questions. It is limited how much a government council can respond in such a short time, and I find it unsatisfactory that in a few minutes I will respond to such important principal issues related to Snow White. Let me just stress that Snow White will be treated according to the regulations and all regulations in the same way as any other project that will be applied for. In the debate that will take place in Stortinget on 7 March, we will also address the issues raised here by the representative with regard to emissions permit, and that emission permit will also be reviewed with regard to the best available technology. There will be no question of setting aside considerations that are important to be taken into account in this context, but it will be up to Statoil, the operator, whether they will start to implement the installation at their own cost and risk, despite the fact that the emission permit and the concession under the Energy Act will only be available at a later stage, probably only in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e234	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e237	The Council of State responded in its main response to this question that what underlied the Government's action was the Sem Declaration. I assume that there must be a partial misunderstanding, given that a decision has been taken which is legally binding on the Government, on 9 March 2000, as among others. does not allow a time limit for the granting of a concession for gas power plants to be set. This does not give the Government a legal opportunity to do so following this decision on the basis of a proposal from the Government, if appropriate, before it is repealed. I would then ask: does the Council of State agree that what the Government is now making, is the decision of the Grand Duchy on 9 March, and does he intend, if necessary, to submit any proposals to the Grand Duchy to repeal the legally binding decision, which will remain in force for the future until it is formally repealed by the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e245	I have confirmed in my first response to the representative Sylvia Brustad that all that I am going to make about decisions on this matter and other matters is anchored in a major decision. There is no doubt about this, but the Government also has a political ambition, a political document, as the basis for its policy, namely the Sem Declaration. If it is then that the Government is proposing proposals that should not be anchored in previous decisions on the aggregates, it is, of course, my duty to present this to the Parliament for testing, so that I have the support of any decisions I may have to make, which are not anchored in what is made by decisions in the Stortinget. That's my starting point on this matter as in all other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e250	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e253	Natural power has not begun to build on its facilities. On Snow White they are in full swing with the construction. The machines go too far before Stortinget has dealt with the matter. My first question will then be: Is this equal treatment in relation to Natural Power, when you look at what happens at Snow White? I understand that the Snow White project is Right's case in the Government. It's not Christian People's Party's business. It was very clear. When this is true of CO2-free gas power plants, which have been important to the Christian People's Party, is my second question to Steensnæs: is it so to understand that it is possible to build a CO2-free gas power plant in this area? Is there a reservoir to put CO2 away, or does that mean that the CO2 produced up there at this gas power plant has to be used simply for pressure support, so that an oil extraction is obtained in the area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e260	As far as non-discrimination is concerned, there are differences between the projects on which Naturkraft has a concession and what is now Statoil for which the operator is responsible in the case of Snow White. This is not least the case in the economy. But in terms of responsibility and requirements, they're exactly the same. The fact that Statoil is now preparing the establishment of this facility is done at Statoil's own expense and risk. We know that in the case of concessions under the Energy Act, and in the case of emission permits under the Pollution Act, such decisions could not be made until perhaps only in 2003. All the preparations that the operator had to make for his own account and risk. There is no discrimination. There is no exception for the requirements for Statoil in relation to Natural Power in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e267	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e270	I have a question for the Davøy Council. On 14 February a father started a hunger strike in pure desperation to visit his children. The need for a father to strike hunger in Norway today in order to draw attention to the fact that children are entitled to two parents seems totally incomprehensible. So fathers have to go to extreme actions, and this is one of an infinite number of such things that come to my table as committee member and big business representative. In fact, there are not as many hunger strikers to focus on the problem, and it may require extra courage to do just that. The Progress Party has long proposed an amendment to the Children’s Act which automatically gives parental responsibility in the event of a break in life, in order to ensure the rights of children to two parents and to avoid such cases ending in the Court of Justice and withdrawing. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council willing to amend the Children's Act to automatically share parental responsibility in the event of a broken life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e279	I do not know the specific matter, but in principle I agree with the representative that children have the right to both parents, and that it is essential that both father and mother have opportunities for good contact with their children. That's my primary position, and we have to try to do that in every context. When it comes to the direct issue of shared parental responsibility, it is one of the questions we are now working on in connection with the amendment of the law, and we will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate case when it comes to the revision of the law. So for me it'll be a little early to signal something here and now, as the matter is under investigation. I haven't taken a political position yet, but we're familiar with all the arguments associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e286	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The undersigned does not go into the specific matter either, but wants to show that desperate fathers and mothers actually see themselves forced to do something that can sometimes seem extreme, to fight to get in touch with their children. Every child should have the right to both father and mother. So we're talking about the child's best, and then it's time for action. So my follow-up question to the Council of State is: When can we expect that there will be a case for the Storting on changes in the Children's Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e295	I have a great understanding of the issue, and I agree with the basic question – it is important to take care of the child’s best interests. It is important that the children get – let's say – the right to both parents. When it comes to the follow-up, we work on the matter. We expect and hope that in the course of the year we will be able to make an assessment and suggestions on any changes to the law at this point as well. I have not said what we are going to go for, but in the course of the year I hope to come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e302	There will be follow-up questions – Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e305	It is obvious that today's legislation leads to a struggle between parents for children. This is unfortunate given that today’s law claims to be the starting point for the best of the child. Of course, children have a very strong need for both parents to be present in their upbringing as caregivers. So we know that today's law is negative for the child, and we see that fathers are struggling with suicidal thoughts, depressions and tragedies. Then I believe that there is a need for us to speed ourselves up as politicians. This cannot be a new issue for the Council of State. And my question to the Council of State is, what can be done to speed up bureaucracy, so that this matter can be brought before the Stortinge before the summer break?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e313	There's probably no new issue for me either. But I'm relatively new as a state council, and we probably need a little bit of time. I cannot promise that I will come back with the matter before the summer, but I can at least promise that we will put pressure on the work. Otherwise, I would like to say that in all the work related to different legislative changes and reviews – we have a lot of things in the Department at the moment – the child’s best interests will be at the heart. It may be that sometimes parents’ rights have to give up for the benefit of the child. It is also an important issue that we have to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e320	We allow another follow-up question, even if the president doubts that there is more to pick up. Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e325	As the Council of State itself was involved, this is not an unknown matter. In fact, it is so little unknown that the Storting and the different governments have now been working for ten years to bring forward legislative amendments. Then it can't be an excuse that you're new as a government council, because the government should be well aware of these kinds of things, and it should not now be postponed or further trained. However, my question relates to the fact that Norway has ratified a wide range of conventions. We have e.g. human rights to relate to. It must also be the basis for the amendment of the law. When Norway – almost ten years ago – has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and when it has been pointed out in various contexts that Norway does not comply with this, I ask: Will the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child on Human Rights now be based on the Norwegian Children’s Act, so that children are given their legitimate rights to two parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e332	Of course, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child will also be used as a basis for the changes we are going to make in the Norwegian legislation, and the implementation of the rules is also under way in different ways in different legislation. The fact that Stortinget has been working on various proposals for legislative changes for 10 years was a very long time. I'm at least going to promise not to spend so long – I guess I don't sit as a state council for that long either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e339	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e342	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Against the will of the Workers' Party, the law on Santa Claus entered into force on 1 January of this year, by several of us, as a hundred years' increase in fees. Paradoxically, the parties that before the election and in the Sem declaration argued for lower fees, together with the Progress Party, are behind a law that, for example, now requires a owner of a dwelling in Ringerijk to pay 46 000 kroner in the plot per year. year, compared with NOK 140 before New Year, and a owner of housing in the East who previously paid NOK 470 will now pay an incredible NOK 36 000. We in the Workers' Party receive daily enquiries about a fee shop that affects a social good, the housing. I suppose the Minister of Justice is also familiar with this. Will the Minister of Justice now contribute to changing the law, as the Labour Party wills, and have proposed, when he sees the unfair outcome of this law, or at least propose remedial measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e351	First to the history description. According to my memory, the law was adopted in the summer of 2000, with the subsidiary support of the Workers' Party. The government of Stoltenberg then chose to put what the Workers' Party had granted subsidiary support to, in action, with the summer of 2001 as the starting time. It is quite right that the Workers' Party after the election came to the idea that it should not be done. I chose for my part, because this case had been going on for a long time, to implement what was adopted in the summer of 2000 and proposed to implement in the summer of 2001,* and where one sort of hit the middle of the tree between landowner interests and tenant interests, with the Bondevik I government, which I myself put in, set a maximum limit on how high one could go, at NOK 9 000 per person. Objective. It is also true that this applies to Santa Claus concluded before 1983, and it can only be regulated, as far as I know, in relation to regulations that take place every twenty-five years. This law is complex and very complex. In fact, I recognize that it's one of the most difficult laws I've ever been close to, almost as difficult as the law on the coordination of state pensions and popular security. I was also with and treated it as a wholesale representative, and in retrospect I have had the same reflection as the Workers' Party had, but in a slightly different way, and therefore proposed an evaluation, and this evaluation adopted the Stortinget. It shall be carried out after the Dørum clarification, page 1617.The Act has been in operation for a period of two years, i.e. after 1 January 2004. I am also generally concerned about looking at the consultation proposals coming back, and as the government Stoltenberg initiated, as far as I remember, last August, after they had gone in to implement the law. I am particularly concerned about whether it may be possible to facilitate the possibility for people to buy instead of renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e365	I thank you for your answer. It gives lean comfort to many of those who today get such a drastic increase in fees. The law is hard to understand. But what is not hard to understand is the concrete increase in fees that many – many thousands – are demanding today. It's not hard to understand. To the extent that there should be something in the claim of the Minister of Justice in relation to what the Workers' Party has voted for in the past, it was precisely to limit the adverse effects, and it is subsidiary to the Workers' Party, because we have consistently opposed this increase in taxes. I want to follow up on the Minister of Justice: what makes this type of tax okay, and that we have to meet there in the middle of the tree, while in the case of other types of taxes, you almost talk as if it were supposed to represent the damn work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e376	Now I will not use quotes from either one or the other power that is not represented here in the hall, but relate to what has happened in the Stortinget. This so-called charge referred to here is a relationship between landowner interests and tenant interests. You can describe it in many ways, almost like a historical anachronism. Norway has had the main line after the war to own, but anachronism has been there. Then I was involved in limiting how much a landowner could get, and it voted the Workers' Party subsidiaryly for that. We kind of took the middle of the tree, and I admit it. If this case had been such a strong case of conscience for the Workers' Party – and it occurs in the lives of many parties that it is – the government would not have had to propose an implementation in the summer of 2001. One could simply come back to Stortinget with evidence of conditions that were difficult. I then chose, because the law had been a long time, to implement it, but I repeat: I will of course follow up on what comes in with the hearing, and since I am a listening person, I will take it with me. I have also participated in proposing an evaluation because I found it necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e385	There will be follow-up questions – Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e388	The council said he was a listening person, and I hope he also gets the same responses that come here to the Stortinget, on the consequences of this law, and which Knut Storberget mentioned some examples of. So the examples that have arrived, which are the most dramatic, with increases of up to 3,000 p.m., from 500 kroner to 36 000 dollars a year, come from state owners. It's the Information Society's fund that goes to work so dramatically. Will the Council of State also be able to take an initiative to ensure that different state bodies, which are based on a bad example, give private owners a back cover to go as far as the law allows?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e396	According to my knowledge, the Information Society's fund works according to guidelines given by Stortinget. And if I've seen it right, they're suggesting that the Information Society's fund should act commercially and deal with market prices. It is also the case that the worker party government that set out, wanted to drain the fund for a number of good purposes, and certainly also for that reason was interested in the fund having the best possible box. I find it at least difficult to go back on something that the Storting has pulled up. I also know that the representative has previously asked the Minister of the Church and Culture a question about this. She has given a reply to the representative, where part of the matters that I am now dealing with are also stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e403	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e406	I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Justice gives a correct history description of this, because this is a matter that many parties might need to think about more carefully. I also appreciate the fact that the Minister of Justice describes himself as a listening person. And if you listen to what's now the majority in Stortinget, there's no reason to wait for an evaluation after two years of how the law on Santa Claus's changes will turn out. This will be dramatic in the economy of many families, and here the state has chosen to go ahead and put the paragraph and letter of the law to the limit, which makes very many families now come out very dramatically. There is a majority in the United Kingdom – if this Government wants to use it – to withdraw this law and not to implement, as has already been done, these dramatic changes. My very clear call to the listening minister is as follows: Take the initiative to redo – in this case, the Storting can actually do it – on the previous decisions that have been unwise and that we certainly also know how to turn out. We don't have to wait for another evaluation after two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e413	Listening state councils should also be state councils that are both committed to positions and positions that they have even agreed to vote for – so I do. After my knowledge was the last time the majority of the Storting had the chance to express their views, after the election, when the Workers' Party came up with different ideas from those they had before the election. A Document No was then introduced. Eight proposals, which were rejected by a large majority, and it was precisely a matter of not implementing what the government had proposed to implement in the summer of 2001. That's the majority I know. At the same time, I heard that the majority asked me to follow, and that's one of the reasons why I say I'm listening. But I also pointed out the evaluation at the time. And as far as I remember, other deposit representatives also did so in connection with the examination of Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e425	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. In connection with the fact that last week – rightly, I mean myself – I criticized the Christian People's Party for having changed its position in a number of areas, the Prime Minister answers that this is an unreasonable black paint from Enoch. Regarding gas power stations, he says the following: ‘My attitude and rhetoric remain the same: that conventional gas power stations are highly polluting. Enoxen should be concerned about and pleased that such gas power plants have been fired into the blue." Now I have to say that at that time I was quite happy, because I thought that after all that mess that has been in recent times, the government has actually decided that it is really going to shoot this type of gas power plant out into the blue, and say no to the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. But after hearing the initial round here today, the confusion is further turned up a notch. So my question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State confirm the Prime Minister's response in Dagbladet, that highly polluting gas power plants are really 'cut out into the blue', and that the Government will not permit the construction of such gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e439	I have also replied to this earlier. The Prime Minister's statement is in a Polish form quite correct. The fact that natural power has come to the ministry and said that the concession they have for the construction of conventional gas power plants cannot be realised within the timescale of the concession that expires in 2004. They have therefore discussed with the ministry the possibility of extending the concession, and now it is in the direction of – and I am very pleased about it – that natural force will cooperate with the ministry to look at the possibility of travelling on CO2-free gas power plants instead. The expression ‘cut out into the blue’ has the coverage so far that no concrete perception of when it is possible, on a commercial basis, to build the conventional gas power plants is yet available. Furthermore, the representative, Mr Enoxen, is also aware that when one is involved in government cooperation with different parties that have different positions on some difficult issues, it is a question of compromising. It is some of the art of politics, but not to do it in such a way that a loses credibility. For its part, the centre party had to cooperate with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the EEA Agreement, which we know was strongly opposed to. But they had enough realism to see that if they were to enter into such government cooperation, it was necessary to make compromises also at such a sore and difficult point for the Center Party. I must admit that the Sem Declaration has many good wordings that reveal the Christian People's Party's environmental policy, for example, and that the Minister for the Environment presents in a very good and committed way. Of course, it also contains elements that do not necessarily reflect the policies of the Christian People's Party, but that is what it is like to be part of a coalition and make political compromises. The fact that the Right’s policy is also reflected in the Sem document can’t be very surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e454	The case of gas power plants has a rather special history. In March 2000, all three central parties, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Center parties, agreed that this was such an important matter that they did not wish to continue in government if the Stortinget decided to build highly polluting gas power plants. These three batches also launched a package at the time to produce pollution-free gas power plants. The three batches also knew at the time that there was no commercial basis in the short term to build gaseous power plants. But despite that, a strong political stance was taken. One could not help building this type of gas power plant and stand for such a decision in Stortinget. I mean it stood respect for it. I understand that the Christian People's Party has to compromise when they're going to sit in government again. But does the Council of State agree that when the decision of the Storting is not only accepted, but even proposes the construction of a new polluting gas power plant in the snow-white field, has the Christian People's Party adopted a completely new position in relation to March 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e461	With regard to the view of the Christian People's Party, it has not changed. With regard to the Christian People's Party's willingness to enter into a government cooperation to find together with other parties about a common political platform, it is the Sem declaration I refer to. And just for one to be aware of what was the challenge: here the Storting had adopted concession for the three gas power stations located on Kårstø, Kolsnes and in the Forest. So if any of these had to change assumptions, one had to go back to the Storting and get new decisions. It was not a realistic outcome of the negotiations we had with the Right, and we then agreed on a kind of time-out: we accept the concessions granted to the three gas power plants, but then we want to build CO2-free gas power plants on all other projects, or we build such gas power plants based on the Kyoto agreement's quota mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e468	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e471	It is true that the minister confirms that the Christian People's Party's will to sit in government is greater than the content of politics, which this case confirms for all its over-measures. Now the minister tries to talk away from what is the actual reality of the matter, and the confusion is brought up to a very high level. What the Prime Minister has said is that ‘gas power plants are fired into the blue’. This is clearly not right. The construction of gas power plants related to the Snow White field in Hammerfest is now planned and prepared. This is a gas power plant which is treated in a completely different way from the other gas power plants which Stortinget has been treated a number of times, not least as a concession and for which the provisions of the pollution law apply. What I now need to clarify with the minister is the following: What makes a gas power plant located at Snow White to be treated differently from the gas power plants that the previous government, Bondevik, actually did a hard-working and affordable job to get out in the blue? A gas power plant located at Kårstø or Kolsnes or for that part of Skogn cannot, in the context of purely practical and legally binding treatment, be different from that of the gas power plant linked to Snow White?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e481	With regard to the three gas power plants that we have now talked about, Kårstø, Kollsnes and Skogn, I have explained that the possibility of commercialisation is not realizable within the time frame they have managed to realize this. Industriekraft Mid-Norway has not yet reported back, but they will be faced with the same challenges as well as the calculations made by Natural Force. In the case of Snow White, it was also part of the negotiations that the centre parties, that is, the Left and Christian People's Party, had with the Right, and in the Sem Declaration it is precisely prescribed how this consensus on Snow White is to be understood. We postponed the treatment of Snow White for three months to go through every hearing opinion, and I can well detail how thoroughly we have done with this in the department in the three months. Each and every opinion has been examined. We have looked at all the environmental impacts and taken them into account, and we believe that our conclusion is based on a sound basis, so that all climate and environmental considerations are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e488	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e491	What I think is clearly demonstrated here is that for the Christian People's Party it is more important to have the Prime Minister and to sit in government than politics, but now leave it alone. When Steensnæs repeats here that it is true ‘in a polemic form’ that Prime Minister Bondevik has said that polluting ‘gas power plants are fired into the blue’, then I think Steensnæs knows just as well as all of us in this room that it is actually not right. At the same time, Steensnæs has admitted in a previous response to me that the gas power plant that is now to be built on Snow White is not CO2 free. Both can't be right. Can't State Council Steensnæs now be so kind as to admit that when Prime Minister Bondevik says that 'gas power plants are shot into the blue', is it actually customs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e498	The President does not seem exactly to characterize anyone as a danger to customs is particularly parliamentary, and the President asks the representative to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e501	I firmly believe that what the Prime Minister has stated in a Polish form is quite correct. It referred to the three gas power stations at Kårstø, Kolsnes and in Skogn. Now I have to take a small reservation about Forest, because Industrialkraft Mid-Norway has not yet reported back how they will deal with this. In the case of Snow White, there is a special case, because the power plant has been pulled on land on the Milky Island, compared to other projects where such an energy plant would be on the base, and as you know, more such gas plants are going on the base today. I have to say that I am responding to the representative Brustad who is now trying to give the impression that the Workers' Party has a different attitude in terms of Snow White than the Cooperation Government has. It is on the basis of the Workers' Party that this matter has been passed on, and it is on the premises of the Workers' Party Government that this matter is promoted for the Stortinget. I can only understand that Brustad is now creating an uncertainty about the Workers' Party's position on CO2-free gas power plants, as she now says.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e510	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e513	I asked a supplementary question to the Council of State instead of the decision on the collapse decision, and was then given a clear answer that the Council of State intended to base the decision on the decision of 9 March 2000. A few minutes later, the Council of State refers to a time limit in the given concession, and in that case, it does not take into account the decision of the Stortinge. The government has no jurisdiction, legally, to set any time limits. The decision of 9 March refers to what is common in the EEA area per. 9 March 2000 and until there is another permanent regime. So that deadline is not valid. There is the government of Stoltenberg who did not even realize that they could not set a deadline. Does the Government agree that the Government does not have the right to set any time limits until the decision of the Enlargement has been formally repealed? It's not just about putting the issue ahead of Stortinget. A legally binding decision against the Norwegian Government must be repealed by the Stortinget before the Government has the freedom of action that the Steensnæs State Council is running around and believes he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e520	It may be necessary to repeat what Hagen put in as a hymn, namely that the Government and this Minister base all their decisions on the premise of the Storting. So let me repeat that. So it is that, under both the pollution law and the Energy Act, it is practice to set deadlines for implementation. It has been implemented since the laws were implemented. It is never the case that concessions and emission permits are granted without deadlines. That would be something completely new. It is not in the law, but it is established practice. And that's when the department implements according to custom, and the deadline is then evaluated in relation to the implementation of the project. It is in order to ensure that no concession is granted without the extension of the proposed project within a reasonable period of time. If Hagen wants to change such a practice, he would like to take this up, but what I've been dealing with, and what the ministry has been dealing with, is the deadline. It was the rest of the labor party government that gave that deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e527	Let's move on to the next main question. Now, if we continue on the same topic, there will be no follow-up questions, so that we also have to raise other main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e532	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. In an article in the newspaper yesterday, we got a good and sober illustration of the relationship between supply and demand for power in Norway. The article confirms that we in Norway will have both a streamration and a power crisis if nothing is done. In addition, it is clear that comprehensiveincrease measures have not worked. The lack of market power is also, of course, in addition to sky-high charges, contributing to high electricity prices that consumers have to pay for. In a comment on that article, the Minister of Oil and Energy states that the Government takes the energy balance seriously. He also says that he has the objective that we should become net exporters by force. I must say I agree with this objective. It was just to be lacking that we, as an energy storm power, were not going to make it! Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Council of State: how in the world should one achieve the goal of becoming a net exporter by force when the measures he supports, such as windmills, etc., are not even enough to meet the increase in demand in the domestic market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e541	The balance of power is a very important part of my responsibility as Minister of Oil and Energy. It is worrying that today, in a normal year, we are actually dependent on imports. We should change this. In fact, the Sem Declaration states that Norway should be able to target itself as one of the leading energy producers in Western Europe, i.e. that the minimum should be to ensure that we have enough power to supply our own household, our own business and our own industry with the power we need. We may also have ambitions to produce so much energy that we can export, but it has to happen through a complex portfolio. I repeat for safety the five elements on which a Norwegian force balance should be based: Firstly, an additional measure needs to be implemented in a sensible manner, including: heat pumps are an important element. Secondly, there must be a commitment to new renewable energy sources, both bioenergy and wind power. And so just by betting on this, we get an energy balance. That is not what the representative now said, that this will not be enough. By investing in wind power and bio within a ten-year period, we'll be able to get 7 TWh with new energy, which in itself will correct the power balance. In addition, we should upgrade our hydropower plants, the pipelines, the turbines, the generators and the grid. Fourth, we should make sure that we have a better relationship with the rest of the world. We are part of a Nordic power market, which will eventually become European, and thus we have the opportunity to import and export when it is right to do so. And finally, here we get time to develop CO2-free gas power plants that can supply the grid with power. We have time to do this through a focused effort on research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e557	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I did not think was very elucidating. As I said in my main question, Norway is today an energy storm power with enormous resources. The problem is that political paralysis, both from the Government and the majority of the population, prevents us from using these resources. When examining the hydropower project in the Salt Mountain-Blacken area last year, Stortinget put an effective end to both this and similar future projects. Now we also see that the Council of State is working on the most incredible curve jumps to stop the planned gas power plants. Has the Council of State intended to discard this paralysis of action and support increased production, since, according to the Daily newspaper at least, it has the objective of being a net exporter of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e566	To make it clear now what is the difference between the policies of the Progress Party and the Cooperative Government on energy supply: we believe that it is possible to balance the need for greater production and a better balance of power with the necessary environmental, climate and fisheries resources. If we're going to get this done, we're going to have to go step by step. We must not produce an energy production capable of setting aside other important societal considerations, whether they be international climate commitments, important environmental considerations or the importance of fisheries resources, which in the north in particular are so crucial in terms of value creation, employment and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e571	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e574	Yesterday’s article in the daily newspaper states that despite a substantial commitment to an additional measure, consumption in Norway increases by about 1.5pst. annual. The Council of State confirms this in letters to the Energy and Environment Committee on Snow White, where he writes that growth appears to continue, despite significant efforts to convert energy use and energy production. This testifies to the fact that the costly effort on an increment measure has not worked and that the objective of the majority of the population in the energy notification on the conversion of use and production has been nothing more than a costly airlock, as the Progress Party claimed and warned against when dealing with the notification. Will the Council of State now take inwards this development and change course? Or will he still spend billions of taxpayers' money on this solid one?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e583	I fundamentally disagree with the representative of Korsberg that this has been a failure. But I realize that in the case of an island, much more can be done. I believe that the creation of Enova in Trondheim, which is to be the primary responsibility for energy conversion and, in particular, to bring forward an additional measure and new renewable energy sources, could mean a real boost for this. There is a broad majority in the Grand Council behind the establishment of Enova. 5 billion is going to be invested in ten years. In the course of last year and this year, 500 million have been set. kr. The aim is to ensure an equivalent amount of follow-up to the important work carried out by Enova to achieve the target of 7 TWh in renewable energy sources by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e590	We're going to the next main question, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen. Unfortunately, the President doesn't think we're raising any more key questions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e593	My question goes to Minister of Justice Dørum. Only at the Hamar Police Chamber have three people died since 1996 after being thrown into the drunk. Several other overweight people have lost their lives elsewhere in the country because the police have obviously misjudged the situation. Several of the cases have ended in an order because of the position of the document. How is it possible that we can have a situation at several of the country's political chambers that are so to the degrees unsatisfactory that people die because the police are unable to assess their condition? Is it not obvious to the Minister of Justice that a full review is necessary here to establish once and for all that excessive drunken persons have nothing to do with the drunkenness, but that they should be treated by health professionals, and that this is the only right thing to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e602	First, with the President's permission, let me correct something that could be misunderstood in parts of my reply to the representative Storberget: After consulting my memory, the date of application of the Santa Claus Act was 1 January this year, and that was why the Workers' Party, of course, promoted a Document No. Eight proposals in December. What I said, could possibly be perceived as having started last summer. And you have to be correct in Stortinget. So back to the question that has been asked – I hope that time can count from now on. The question that has been asked is why it should be taken very seriously. Therefore, SEFO is also in every case, as they are now in Hamar. The SEFO report will be available when it is to be, and will of course count. I have, independently of that, asked the Police Directorate to give me a presentation of what has happened at Hamar – to the extent that it is not affected or affected by SEFO's investigation – in order to gain that knowledge, and I have also generally received a review of the current guidelines. They intend to monitor regularly and to assess the relationship with the health authorities. Now there may be many situations where it's difficult, but there shouldn't be enough answer in itself. That's why the police director said yesterday that they want to go out with initiatives both to get callers and to get electronic surveillance in the police detention centre. They have also done something that, in my opinion, is both very important and correct, by setting up a working group for, among other things. to look at the relationship with health authorities. I stress that we should review the relationship with health authorities, so that as far as possible, we can be sure of situations where, based on no political assessment, we cannot be sure of the situation. I see it as the police directorate's purpose for the group, and of course, in consultation with the directorate, I want to follow up this particular relationship that is about the health profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e613	I thank you for your answer. But in my view, this is all about a human vision that we can't be aware of: that people who drink for the full have the sea to thank, and that they deserve punishment instead of help. We've seen too many times so far the consequences of such an attitude. We therefore expect the Minister to be actively involved in this, so that the tragic death of Hamar is the last we experience of this type of death in Norwegian arrests. And then I don't think it'll keep you from getting better control of those who are put in the filler. We have to realize that these people have nothing to do with the drunk, but that they're going to be sent to medically skilled personnel who can handle them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e620	I don't know if the representative meant to dedicate me to a human vision that meant that you were going to treat people who were on drugs in a random way. I guess that wasn't the intention. I suppose it was the intention that no one should stand for that vision. First of all, regardless of this case, I assume that every adult person has a responsibility to know what to do. If you were going to be so unhappy that you're going to get drunk either because you might have drunk something you don't know what is, or maybe even worse: you're dealing with chemical designer drugs, it's clear that you're facing a very problematic situation. I have assumed that this situation can be reviewed in the working group for which the Police Directorate has just taken the initiative in cooperation with health professionals. And I want to say that I'm actually worried, regardless of the Hamar case, that maybe in the time that comes, both in terms of the police and the settlement, we can meet people who take drugs that sometimes can be terribly difficult to register. This makes the challenge formidable, not only for the police, but also for health authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e627	There will be follow-up questions – the last – Gunn Karin Gjul.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e631	In the last five years, alcohol consumption in young people has doubled, and alcohol poisoning is an increasing problem. We now know that more acute alcohol poisoning is dying than drug overdoses. And so many of these are in police custody. In the view of the Labour Party, these should not be on smooth cell, but simply in a health care unit. We believe that this can be made possible by simple, clear action and guidelines, not just by investigating SEFO. I would like to challenge the Council of State: will the Council of State now include a requirement for medical supervision in the Criminal Procedures Act or in its own guidelines to the police, so that we avoid more such events?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e638	In my knowledge, the current guidelines include obligations to use both doctors and medical staff, but there is always reason to ask if the guidelines are good enough. That's why I first asked for them, and then that's why the Directorate of Police has decided to look at the situation. That's exactly the situation I described, where young people like what the representative correctly described as acute alcohol poisoning, not to mention situations where you can get away with combinations with other drugs. And I'm not commenting on the single thing right now, because I don't know what it's about. That is precisely what it is that we need to engage in this close dialogue with the health authorities in order to sort. And I repeat: I think we will have formidable challenges, not only in relation to the police, but also in terms of compensation, when we see developments in drug and drug use. Of course, I'm prepared to address those issues because the challenges are new, and we have to take them seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e645	The time for the oral questioning is well over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e650	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 4, 5 and 6 from the representatives of Berit Brørby, Olav Gunnar Ballo and Gunn Karin Gjul respectively to the Minister for Culture and the Church are answered by the Minister for Children and Family on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church, who has been removed. Questions 17 and 19, from the representatives of Søren Fredrik Voie and Rune J. Skjellaaen, respectively, to the Minister for Education and Research, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative of Lena Jensen to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 20, from the representative Anne Helen Rui to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Agriculture, this question is moved and answered in response to question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 32, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 22, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 33, from the representative Odd Roger Enoksen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister of Labour and Administration, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 34, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 35, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Health who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 16, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e679	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘In evaluating the treatment of the State and National Budget of the Grand Duchy, the sample was also concerned with several important issues which were not time to consider further. This concerns the modification of the cash principle and the issue of multi-annual budgets. Some countries have left the cash principle in full or in part, and some countries work out of multiannual budgets. The committee considered that these questions had to be further investigated. Has the Council of State taken the initiative or will it do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e688	The answer is yes. If time allows for a certain deepening of the answer, the ratio is so that this was done under the government of Stoltenberg on 14 September last year. A public sample assesses according to the following guidelines: 1st@item: inlistbox The principles for the budgeting and accounting of the State budget and the state accounts, including the relationship between the cash principle and budgetary and accounting principles according to business principles.2. Budgeting in a multiannual perspective. The Committee, chaired by Marianne Andreassen, shall give its opinion by 1 December of this year. On that basis, the Ministry will assess the follow-up to the selection when available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e702	I thank you for your answer. That means that a job is going on, but there's still time for recording. My point is that the sample that evaluated the treatment of the Storting pointed to two factors. That sample is not affected is, in my view, a third area, where modernisation and renewal may be more important for Norway than for many other OECD countries, namely the use of oil money and the specific use of oil money abroad. The use of oil money abroad, the purchase of goods and services either abroad or supplied in Norway by non-resident suppliers and, in particular, foreign labour is a central theme if we are to modernise the economic concepts and principles we use in the governance of the country’s and its economy. Will the Council also include the use of foreign budgets in such an investigation? So even if the work is started, there's time left to record along the way. So I repeat the question: will the Council also ensure that the use of the foreign budget is assessed in such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e709	This is another question. I can answer that, and then I will reply by referring to the fact that the sample is free to assess what they want within the limits of the mandate. But if I were to refer to the representative's reflection on something that could contribute to thinking about this, I would like to refer to the President's annual report, in which, in very cash terms and in terms of expression, he refers to the thoughts of the Progress Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e717	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘I refer to the increasing activity and interest in the exploitation of natural gas for domestic use. What tax regime will the Council of State establish for those companies that will be responsible for the development and operation of installations for such use?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e726	I assume that the issue concerns the tax regime for income from the activities mentioned. The issue with regard to the tax egi for the domestic exploitation of natural gas is whether such an activity falls within the scope of the Petroleum Tax Act. The subject-matter of special taxation under this Act is primarily income linked to the extraction, i.e.: the production of petroleum on Norwegian continental shelf. However, under the special tax regime, income derived from the pipeline transport of extracted petroleum is also included. Pipeline transport by landing in Norway is subject to the Petroleum Tax Act, even when the transport takes place on the Norwegian territory of the country. Within the scope of the special tax obligation, the first paragraph of Section 1 of the Petroleum Tax Act also provides for ‘other activities in reception and despatch facilities as part of the extraction and pipeline transport of such petroleum’. The term ‘pipeline’ is defined in the regulation of the Petroleum Tax Act in such a way that installations for the further processing of petroleum, including refining, fall outside. The boundary of the pipeline with other installations on land is the measuring station that petroleum passes after having undergone cleaning, stabilisation and temporary storage. In the case of the Kårstø reception facility, the applicable rules imply that those parts of the terminal separating the dissipated natural gas into dry gas and wet gas are considered to belong to the pipeline transport system and are therefore subject to the Petroleum Tax Act. On the other hand, the related parts of the plant are treated as fractions of the separated wet gas of different natural gas products as installations for further processing of extracted petroleum. Income from these activities is taxed in accordance with the general rules of the Tax Code. Another example is the gas processing plant at Kolsnes, which is treated as part of the pipeline transport system and is therefore subject to the Petroleum Tax Act. On the other hand, the oil refinery at Mongstad and the methanol factory at Tjeldbergodden are treated as land-based activities taxed under the general rules of the Tax Code. Land installations for power generation based on natural gas, the purpose of which is to supply electricity to the market, will likewise be subject to the general tax regime under the Tax Act and not to the special tax regime under the Petroleum Tax Act. The same will apply to industrial activities based on natural gas as an energy source or raw material. I see no basis for proposing amendments to the legislation in order to extend the scope of the Petroleum Tax Act to include such domestic activities based on natural gas. I also mention, for the sake of order, that installations located in mainland Norway are not subject to the law on the emission of CO2 in petroleum activities on the continental shelf. Domestic use of gas is also excluded from the domestic CO2 tax on the placing on the market of petroleum products, etc. The government will present an additional communication to the government of Stoltenberg during March. In this context, it is appropriate to consider whether new climate policy instruments should be introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e745	I thank the Minister for the answer. That was a very thorough answer. I understood that this will be mentioned in documents that come to Stortinget this spring, so we can go into it more thoroughly. But there are some issues among companies now about taxing. If energy companies want to take into account domestic consumption where they also have pipeline systems in the sea, and they move on to land and there is a movement of this gas on land for domestic consumption, then I perceive the Minister of Finance to be considered to be «further processing» and that land tax is paid to the companies that will start that business. Does the Minister of Finance think that these fiscal matters can be clarified in this respect with regard to the regime that is now in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e750	Yes, the thorough answer is probably also an expression of the fact that the problem of demarcation between a favourable petroleum tax regime and a country tax regime is important for the actors and for the country's total tax revenue. Therefore, the boundary has been quite controversial, and it has been raised in relation to the concrete examples I mention. I believe that in the law and in the law's practice there are reasonably clear answers to the question of when to tax under normal tax regimes and when to tax under the petroleum tax regime. So I see no reason for domestic use of gas to require new boundaries or new tax regimes. I think there are clear answers in practice and law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e755	The President also thought about it when the Minister of Finance read the answer, that it is good that the answers can be obtained in writing, so it is acceptable for others to understand the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e761	I will ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The last available survey of the Petroleum Fund’s investments in international companies from 2000 shows that the Petroleum Fund has invested nearly DKK 1 billion in the Japanese nuclear energy companies supplying the majority of the nuclear waste to Sellafield. Was the Council of State aware that the Petroleum Fund has invested such significant amounts in these companies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e770	The Petroleum Fund shall be managed in a sound manner, with its objective of high returns at moderate risk, in order to contribute to ensuring the basis for future well-being. There has been a broad consensus in the UK that the Petroleum Fund should not be used as an active instrument to promote other policy objectives. The State Petroleum Fund is a financial investor. By the end of 2000, the fund has invested in some 1700 different companies. The ownership interests of individual companies are small, and the fund is placed in such a way as to provide a return in line with broadly composed stock and bond indices in countries with well-developed corporate, stock exchange and securities laws. These listed companies are subject to a high degree of control and transparency. It has been assumed that the companies relate to the laws and regulations of their home country. As a general rule, there are no specific ethical guidelines for investment under the auspices of the State Petroleum Fund in addition to those under the legal rules of the countries in which the companies belong. However, an extractive mechanism has been established for the Petroleum Fund. According to this, the Ministry of Finance may exclude companies from the Petroleum Fund if investment in these companies may involve a breach of Norway’s international obligations. A Council of High Competences in International Law has been established to assist the Ministry of Finance in this work. The Sellafield plant, which the queryer refers to, is the recipient and treatment of nuclear waste from nuclear power plants, etc. The Sellafield plant is owned by British Nuclear Fuels Limited, which is again owned by the British state. According to the company’s web pages, this company has 51 manufacturing plants in 15 countries, which together have a global market share of approx. 12 pst. The holdings of the Fund shall be published in the annual reports of the Fund. According to the annual report for 2000, the fund had holdings in several Japanese nuclear energy companies. The annual report for 2001 is not yet public. However, as the Petroleum Fund largely follows well-established market indices on the international stock exchanges, it is likely that the fund will continue to hold holdings in such companies. Given that British Nuclear Fuels Limited has such large market shares in this field, it cannot be excluded that companies deliver nuclear waste to the Sellafield plant. I am not aware that investment in companies that deliver nuclear waste for recovery in Sellafield would be contrary to Norway's international obligations. That is why I cannot see it as natural to use the extraction mechanism, as the Stortinget has decided, to withdraw the investment of the Petroleum Fund from such companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e790	The last part of the answer to the finance minister was a little unclear, so my follow-up question is whether he will take the initiative on behalf of the government that the Petroleum Fund sells itself out of these companies, and in that way, it shows that Norway does not accept what is happening at Sellafield.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e795	The answer is no, and I justify that it is according to the Storting's own guidelines. I remind you that this was actually dealt with in Stortinget in the previous period following a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg in the revised national budget in 2001. It states that it will not establish ethical guidelines such as ‘restrict the investment opportunities of the Petroleum Fund on the basis of a given activity’. In Stortinget, the government received broad support for this. The representative of the Coastal Party also supported the government's assessment on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e800	The undersigned was not then a representative in Stortinget. I would like to make it clear once again that the Coastal Party, for its part, will keep a good grasp of this matter, because this is about our future – and not just our future, but the future of our descendants and the basis of life in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e807	I'm going to register it, but I stress that the government's struggle to get the British government to impose restrictions on the Sellafield plant is not a fight against the Sellafield plant as a processing plant, rather against its suppliers, but a fight against the fact that the plant emits substances that we believe are toxic and that other processing plants of similar nature do not emit. This is what this is all about, and not the fact that the world – and here you might add: unfortunately – has a lot of nuclear power and therefore a lot of nuclear waste. The processing of this in Sellafield takes place in our opinion in a way that is unfortunate, and the fight continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e812	We're going to go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e819	This question, from the representative of Lena Jensen to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e822	«In chronicle in the newspaper on Saturday 9 February d.o.b. writes the Council of State: ‘But perhaps it is too much for the individual teacher to be able to differentiate the teaching of each individual in the class.’ The Council of State wants to discuss other forms of differentiation. What other forms of differentiation does the Council of State think of?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e829	In the Clemets Chronicle Council in the newspaper on 9 February, she asked questions about whether we were expecting teachers too much in terms of adapted training. The OECD study PISA 2000 showed that Norwegian students come out relatively poorly in terms of literacy and knowledge in mathematics and natural sciences. The survey also showed that there is a worrying wide spread of reading in Norwegian students, that many have negative attitudes towards schoolwork, and that training is often disturbed by anxiety. This is a challenge for the school. We have to ask ourselves if there's anything about the school itself and the school system that makes us not good enough. That's what I want to raise in an open discussion, says the Council of State in this chronicle. Many schools are making great efforts to combat problem behaviour, and many are significantly successful. When schools fail to improve, this may be because they do not use possible tools. The Training Act opens, inter alia: in order to organise pupils by other means than ordinary classes for specific parts of the training and, in exceptional cases, to move students where the consideration of other students so requires. Different alternative measures have shown that they can help solve serious human problems in a way that is crucial for the further development of some pupils. At the same time, alternative training provision is not a solution that suits everyone. There are also critical objections, such as: the fact that primary school students have the right to attend the nearest school, or that school in the community to which they are soccer, and they have the right to belong to a class. It may therefore be problematic to take students with major behavioural problems out of home school and class. Transferring students to alternative school services should not serve as a sleeping cushion for the further development of home school. Experience also shows that it may be problematic to bring together many students with problem behaviour in their own units. However, I believe that, more than is usual today, we need to be willing to assess alternative training provision. Alternative arrangements can be made both within each school and as alternative measures for several schools in a municipality, including: organized as separate schools. Some municipalities have merged to form alternative intercommunal offers. The learning centre has been asked to carry out a survey of various forms of alternative training related to behavioural problems and to ensure that an in-depth evaluation of organisation and content is carried out. This material will be included in the basis for the discussion. The government has appointed a public body to assess the content, quality and organisation of initial training and to recommend early spring 2003. Questions related to adapted training and differentiation will become important in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e844	I thank you for your answer. I have to say that the opinion of the Council of State disturbed me a little when I read it. In its programme, the right says that more special schools are needed for pupils with behavioural problems to improve the learning environment both for the student and for the other pupils in the class, and that it is ‘unacceptable’ that one or some of the students should destroy the education and the school environment for the others. This is a stamping theory and an old way of attacking the school and students. It will in many ways be a double punishment for the child. If you want to invest in more special schools, for the integrated school, it will be a complete turnaround and a new policy in relation to the school policy we have pursued in Norway. I fully agree that we should have differentiation in school, and that it is important to achieve equality through differentiation. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether the Minister of Finance sees the need to increase and strengthen the local economy and to have a stronger teacher's density in order to achieve equality for students?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e851	The post that was now made did not relate to my response or to the Clemets Chronicle of the State Council. Therefore, I have to answer by referring to the answer I gave, where I underlined that municipalities have chosen different models of differentiation for students with behavioural problems. These different models we will now study, and the Learning Center is asked to do that job and present it. I may think that trials based on taking experience from one part of the country across to another region are a rather useful form of experimentation. There's no lead in this, but there's that exchange of experience might be quite healthy and sensible. On the final question, whether the municipal economy has an impact on the school framework, I can answer confirmatoryly. I can well answer confirm that normally the municipal framework increases from year to year. There is no forecast for the 2003 budget, but the Stortinget will be familiar with this year in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e858	I thank you for your answer. I want to follow up the question of saying that five months have passed since the election, and this was a choice of primary school and a bet at primary school, where the parties promised to give it a lift. I'm following this with differentiation, because I think differentiation is an important perspective with a greater teacher's density. In order to achieve differentiation and follow up on the weakest — and strongest — students, we need to have a greater teacher density, and we need to have a stronger community economy. School betting, which was promised in the election campaign, how much is it worth? My question is to the Minister of Finance: How much are the promises about school worth, and do we want to see a bigger investment in primary school further – and in the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e863	The question is therefore addressed to the Minister of Education and Research, but is answered by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e866	I am happy to answer yes to both questions, and I also refer to Norway as one of the OECD countries with the highest teacher density. What is now being discussed is whether or not the teacher's density can be better exploited, including for those students who have behavioural and learning problems. I think there is a lot to learn from the exchange of experience between different parts of the country, and that material will be presented to the Stortinget in connection with the investigation that I mentioned in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e875	This question, from the representative Berit Brørby to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e878	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State Davøy: «In connection with the sale of 25 dekar prästegårds soil to the municipality of Grane, the Information Society's fund has demanded 7 pst. interest on the purchase price of SEK 2 million. NOK 50 000 and an administrative fee. This feels very unreasonable. Does the Council of State think this is a good practice, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the fund uses a different business method in the sale of viticultural land?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e887	On behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church, I would like to answer this question from the representative of Brørby. As the representative is sure to know, the Information Society's fund has many similarities with a foundation. The Fund shall include, inter alia: owner of vicarage. The management of the fund's properties has been discussed several times in Stortinget, and in recent years the sale of pension land has been systematically carried out. Until 1 January 2001, the day-to-day management of the Fund was entrusted to the Ministry of Education, Education and Research. From 2001 onwards, the administration was added to a separate administrative body under the Ministry, with its own administration. It is therefore the Board of Directors that is now responsible for the management of the Fund, including the sale of grounds for retirement, in accordance with the principles and guidelines in force. Such guidelines and principles were discussed last year in Stortinget, in the context of the handling of the paper on the Church's economy, as the Stoltenberg government presented. In this context, it is important that the fund be managed in accordance with commercial principles. With regard to the specific matter to which the representative refers, it follows from the administrative arrangements recently established that the Board of Directors of the Fund is required to assess whether there is an unfair agreement in this respect, contrary to the principles and guidelines applicable to the sale of a registered office. However, I will ensure that the Board of the Fund is made aware of the representative's questions and my answer. It is also natural that the fund informs the department on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e898	I thank you for the answer, which in itself is not a surprising answer, because I am also aware that the Information Society's fund operates according to guidelines given by Stortinget. But in this case, I think the state as the landowner appears to be a very greedy owner. The question is whether we should accept this, given that also the state, i.e. We, among others obliges municipalities to pursue a charging policy based on the principle of self-sufficiency. I understand that the board of directors of the Foundation cannot be instructed here and now, but I will challenge the Council of State whether she can distance herself from the fact that this is a proper business policy, where one actually competes with the greedy property brokers that we have in the country, that one should instruct the board of directors of the Foundation to exercise something more political judgement than what they have actually done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e905	In any case, a principle that the Fund should be operated on a commercial basis has been adopted. This has also been the subject of political agreement in Stortinget. Going as far as to distance in a single matter that the ministry has not yet been briefed on, I can't do. But what I'm going to do is ask the department to get an information about the case from the fund. If you want to do something on the occasion of the case, I cannot answer until you receive the opinion from the fund. Only then will the department be able to see how the fund has handled this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e910	When the Council of State would then bother to check what the board of directors of the fund have done in this matter, it is important to bear in mind that the board of directors of the fund has told the municipality of Gran that they want interest of 7 pst. of the purchase price, which is SEK 2.1 million. kr, and this shall continue until a split decision has been taken by the County Board of Agriculture. And it can take a very long time. It sounds to me like a very unfair policy on the part of the fund, so I just want to ask the Council of State to include these points of view when she is going to check the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e915	I can confirm that we will be included in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e924	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e927	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In the recording of the film on the Kautokeino uprising in 1852, the film team wants to contribute to the construction of a permanent settlement in Kautokeino near identical as it was in 1852. [[director Nils Gaup]] The cost is estimated at 10 million. kr. The buildings are used for tourism, for Beaivva's theatre, for overnight stays and as a living museum of what happened in 1852, where props from the film can also be shown. Will the State Council contribute to the realisation of the project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e936	I will answer this question on behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has not received an application for support for this project directly. The Ministry of Culture and the Church manages the scheme of investment grants for national cultural buildings. In this context, I would like to point out that grants are prioritised according to a plan presented to the Storting in the 2002 budget proposal. This proposal shows that there will be room for new projects at the earliest in 2006. I would also like to point out that all grant management for the production of films has been delegated to the Norwegian Film Fund. It has been suggested that the Fund should decide on its own basis and on the basis of its own professional assessments whether a project should be supported. The size agreed with this principle during the examination of the 2001 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e947	I just have to stress strongly that this is not about applying for funds for a film. The costs involved in the scenes themselves for the film will be borne by the film team as such. This is a very unique project, which allows you to list approx. Nine constructions in Kautokeino, including a church as it stood in 1852, in the wake of the film’s realization, and by going in from the film team and covering the costs that would otherwise have been incurred in the construction of scenes. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the treatment of the Grottinget Equalisation Communication in June 2000, the Stortinget Group said that action in Finland should be taken to help create new jobs, including the contribution of the State. This is where you get served – not just on a silverboard, but on a goldboard – an opportunity to create such jobs. And then you shouldn't let that opportunity go away. And I'm very surprised – because I've had contact with several of the departments – about how passive you are to this unique opportunity. I am tempted to ask: What kind of alternative measures does the Government intend to put into action in the interior of Finland to create these jobs? At the same time, from a group that has been set up in Finnmark, this is precisely one of the priority projects that you want to realise. You'll start recording the film in July, and if you lose that opportunity now, you'll have lost the opportunity to create just these jobs. And there are serious investors behind to be able to run this in the long term. Once again, I would like to ask the Council of State: would you like to take an active approach from the Government and look at the possibilities that exist here to try to get something in connection with the film recording?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e956	On behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church, I have to state once again that this also applies to the construction of national cultural buildings, and their grants are prioritised in a sequence. In the past, the representative Ballo has also been in contact with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade on this project, and an answer has been given on 5 February of this year, when the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade points to the fact that funds for economic development, as the representative is also talking about jobs, are channelled through the SND, and in this way the film company is recommended to contact SND Finnmark. I don't know if it could have been tried.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e961	It's an expression that says that where it's a will, it's also a way. The starting point of the forecast is the situation in the inner east of Oslo. Many have just highlighted the Opera as a measure in Bjørvika to improve the conditions in the east of Oslo. Maybe the cost will go up to $4 billion. We're talking here about internal Finnmark and Kautokeino, about a project that might cost 10 million. kr, maybe it will cost less precisely because you get it as a spice layer where others go in with significant funds. Then the government won't seize that opportunity desirable, be enthusiastic, try to realize this. Instead, you have to make it clear how politicians can undermine the opportunities that lie here, not by saying: let's look at it, let's see what we can do, let's get it done in the context of the revised national budget! Once again, I would like to invite the Council of State and contact the Minister of Culture to try to get this on his feet as quickly as possible, so that the unique opportunity that exists here does not fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e971	I understand that the representative Ballo is burning for this project, which is certainly very good. What I can do, of course, is bring back to the Minister of Culture and the Church the strong commitment to the matter. But I cannot, on behalf of the Minister of Culture here and now, express a positive view, that this will find its solution by ten million. kr, neither revised nor later. So I'm going to bring it back; I guess I haven't really given so much hope, but I'm going to bring the representative Ballo's input here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e980	This question should also be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e983	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘In Aurskog, the State Information Service Fund has demanded an older couple for an increase in their rent, which they have rented since 1952, which involves 30 times the rent, from today’s 570 kroner to 17 100 kroner per day. years. Does the State Council consider that the landowner should be behind such a massive land eel increase and will the State Council consider instructing the fund to make only reasonable rental increases to mitigate the tax burden on many landowners in the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e992	On behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church, I will answer the question from the representative of Gjul. On behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church earlier today, I have answered another question concerning the Information Society Fund. I then informed that the current management of the Fund has recently been added to a separate management body with its own board of directors, and that the Board is to manage the Fund in the light of the general principles and guidelines that apply. As I also mentioned, these were the principles and guidelines for discussion in the United Kingdom in the spring of 2001 in connection with the handling of the paper on the Church's economy as presented by the Stoltenberg Government. In general, the principle of managing the Fund on a commercial basis applies. This includes the management of buildings, forest and agricultural property belonging to the Fund, including permanent properties, in a commercially sound manner. This must be taken into account by both the Ministry and the fund board, which means that it will be the market value of the properties that determine the level of prices or charges. With regard to the specific matter to which the representative refers, I agree that the increase in the fixation fee seems disproportionate. However, I have no reason to comment on whether the increase is in spite of price developments or market developments in the area. What is the correct market value would otherwise be subject to discussion. In such a case, the attachment may require legal judgement, or a re-taxation of the property may be carried out. It follows from the management system of the fund currently in place that it is the board that has to assess whether the increase in the fixed fee in question is contrary to or in spite of the principles and guidelines in force and whether a new tax should be applied if appropriate. I will therefore ensure that the Management Board is briefed on the matter raised by the representative and on my answer to the representative's question. Otherwise, it is natural that the fund in this case informs the department of how the case has been followed up by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1007	I am pleased that the Council of State will inform the Board of Directors of the specific matter. But this isn't a single case, it's something that concerns a lot of landowners across the country. The information service fund is the landowner and is responsible for the rental of 12,000 plots in the country. There are many more than just this couple who experience the same situation, getting a formidable increase in fees. I also think it is unacceptable that you cover yourself behind the demand for maximum profit, because here you also have a responsibility to exercise a judgement and show some kind of reasonableness. Here we find that we increase the fee from approx. 500 kroner to approx. NOK 17 000 in a short time, and I do not believe that it is to exercise a responsible judgement. I will challenge the Council of State to that effect, if she, as a responsible person in this field, does not have a responsibility to impose on the Board of Directors of the Information Society's Fund to exercise sound judgement in such a case as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1014	Once again, I would like to point out that the Storting has also said that business principles should be used as a basis for taxing. Some of the reasons why the regulation of fasting charges can give a huge impact are due to the fact that price regulation often takes place at intervals of several years. If there has been a significant price development during this time, new pricing of the property's value could result in a large increase in the fixation fee, without saying that it is the right level in this case. It's clear that when there's an increase, there's resistance and criticism. But there is indeed also a consequence of the market rental principle, which the Ministry and the Fund are obliged to follow in accordance with the Storting assumptions. In the specific case of Aurskog, the fees under the party contract are to be regulated, as I am familiar with, every 25 years, and it is now 25 years since the last regulation. What we're going to do is ask the board for an orientation. If the Ministry should do something more, we will be able to decide only after this assessment has been made by the Board of Directors of the Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1021	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I'm glad she'll be following up on this. This concerns many older people who have lived on their plots for over 50 years. There are pensioners who have a limited number of dollars available each year, who now receive a formidable increase in fees, which is totally unpredictable. It's about social protection. It's about predictability and the legal certainty of people. I want to challenge the Council of State to take responsibility for people not getting into a situation where you actually have to go from farm to farm because we're covering up for us to operate according to business principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1026	I just want to confirm once again that we are making contact with the board of directors of the fund and will, in the light of that answer, assess whether the department will address several of these issues that have been raised today. In fact, the Minister of Justice also received a question in the spontaneous Question Time today about the Information Service Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1035	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The Government now proposes to transfer the BU funds from the State to the municipalities. Today, these funds are linked to good professional environments, which provide advice and proceedings at regional level. How shall adequate competence in these areas be ensured in the municipalities?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1044	The government has decided to transfer responsibility for a large part of the tasks in agriculture and the environment from state agencies to municipalities. This will result in significant decentralisation, and it will strengthen local self-government and vitalize local democracy. This will give municipalities the opportunity to look at agricultural and environmental policies in conjunction with other areas and tasks. Of the economic instruments that the Government wants to add to the municipalities, both environmental instruments, forestry resources and enterprise-oriented rural development funds are. The farm-oriented BU funds are currently managed by the State's Food and Rural Development Funds and are used both for investments in traditional agriculture and for agricultural-related innovation and development measures. Municipalities already have tasks related to these funds, through preparation and recommendations, control and follow-up of cases. I believe the municipalities will have decision-making skills in these areas, but we need to have an open view of the organisation of the work itself. We can, for example: think of models that include county leadership and cooperation between several municipalities. I also want to test municipal task differentiation, i.e. that municipalities with different assumptions as to size, the extent of agriculture, competence and capacity have different tasks. This will initially come back to the Government in a big deal during the spring. As this reform will significantly increase the number of tasks for municipalities in the field of agriculture than at present, the Government will also consider the detailed criteria of the income system for municipalities, so that there will be a good link between the allocation of funds, the amount of tasks and the need for competence in each municipality. In total, this reform represents a promise for the municipalities in the agricultural sector, and underlines the Government's willingness to show the municipalities confidence that they can solve the problems they are given. Most municipalities have had good and formal competence in these areas over a long period of time. For various reasons, there has been a trend towards a reduction in this competence. That's exactly what we want to turn around. By providing municipalities with more responsibility and space for action, by assessing criteria for the income system of municipalities and by a significant transfer of competences from a regional level, the necessary competences will be maintained and further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1059	I thank you for your answer. I agree that the municipalities had good competence in many of these fields mentioned. But over several years, that competence has been built up because of the very poor municipal economy and because the municipalities have to give priority to health and school. When the transfers to the agricultural offices were included in the framework transfers, we saw that the subsidy was granted according to population figures. As a result, agricultural municipalities lost grants of up to 70 p.m., while large cities increased by several million. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will also take this into account when assessing transfers to municipalities in connection with new tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1066	We will. I also expressed that in my answer. Let me say that I would have thought that the representative would also express some joy and enthusiasm that this is strengthening local democracy, that is to have confidence in local elected representatives, who are now to take greater responsibility. At least it's a basic ideology and philosophy for this government that we want to have confidence in local democracy's ability to solve tasks – and more tasks. These are important principles. But then we have to enable the municipalities to stand by and implement these principles in a good way. One is, as the representative mentions, competence issues. This reform is expected to be fully implemented as of 1 January 2004 – by a big message in ours and the necessary follow-up to it via the Community economicproposition in spring 2003. Then we will also be able to raise the question – and the Government has warned – of integrating agricultural and environmental considerations into the income system. It is often the case that where there are many cows, there are few people, and the incomes of the municipalities also have to be able to catch up, and that is what the Government is working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1075	I thank you again for your answer. Of course, it is positive that decisions should be made where people live, I fully agree, but the municipalities must be able to do so. However, a question that is also relevant in this context concerns areas in which the State has decision-making powers in the agricultural management. Have the Council of State thought that it might be possible to add these tasks to a regional level? At the same time, I would like to remind you that the BU funds are part of the agricultural agreement, so that the parties to the agreement must be included in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1086	This reform is precisely about matters in which the State has jurisdiction and where the State has taken decisions by the State and the County Agriculture Board. And the County Agriculture Board is an agency appointed by the county -- it's a state-elected body, we can say. What we are actually doing is transferring these state tasks to the municipalities, not just to the county councils and county councils, but to where we have the most extensive and scattered local democracy, that is, to the municipalities. Only on the legal side, in concession cases, soil law cases, forest law cases, this is about approx. 8,000 things a year. These are issues in which municipalities already have competence, where they are already first instance managers, where they give their position, but are not allowed to take decisions. We are now inviting them to do so through this reform. It's giving local democracy confidence. And I'm proud that this government is now facilitating it. Then we have to make sure to transfer skills and learn. We have barely two years to make sure that we transfer the necessary skills and resources to do the job well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1094	«The watercourses in Eastfold such as the Halden Watercourse, Lake Water and Tune Water are threatened as drinking water sources and recreational areas. Blue-green algae developed last year so many toxins that both Lake Vane and Tune water were closed for bathing. Agriculture is the cause of under 60 pst. of pollution. The prohibition of harvest ploughing around the Morsava trek, catch ponds and vegetation planting are measures in place. Our drinking water sources are threatened. What action will the Council of State take to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1101	As can be seen from May Hansen's question, agriculture is a major contributor to pollution problems in part of our watercourses. This also applies to those watercourses in Eastfold. I am committed to improving the water quality of the Hobøl – Watercourse, so that Lake Van can continue to be used as a drinking water source for 60,000 people and remain a valuable recreational and open-air area. The two main sources of anthropogenic inputs of nutrient salts to Lake Van are agricultural activities and spillages related to the watercourses draining to Lake Van. The government, in cooperation with business organisations, has set a total of 3 million. kr from the Agricultural Development Fund for increased investment in Morsa, as the project in Vansjö is called. In addition, the Ministry of Environment for 2002 has set aside 3 million. kr to total water management, of which 2 million. kr will go to the Morsa project. Agricultural and environmental management cooperate on the project to ensure that the actors are involved. For agriculture good results have already been achieved in Vansjö. A preliminary calculation shows a reduction in the agricultural phosphorus input of 3,6 tonnes, which is more than halfway to the proposed targets. For the most erosionally exposed agricultural areas, aquifers and flooded areas, it is close to 100 pst. the achievement of the objectives of the measures. In addition, 40 catch ponds, 30 km of vegetation zones and 8 km of vegetation along the watercourse are installed or planned. There is a very high interest among farmers in the area in implementing measures, triggering annual and long-term funds from the agricultural agreement, as well as what has been proposed in the action package. Experience shows that it takes a long time to improve an ecological system like a large lake. It is therefore likely that you will have to live with the results of ‘old sins’ for several years to come, even though we have now invested considerable resources and measures to improve the situation. Most of the instruments used by the Ministry of Agriculture are targeted at individual farmers, but larger watercourses require collective integration around measures to succeed. I would therefore like, with background to the experience of the Morsa project, and also the Left's focus on environmental issues, to facilitate joint projects in even more watercourses. Projects in which all stakeholders participate and where local ownership of the projects is created have a strong motivating effect. This results in positive ring-effects for the long-term follow-up of the projects, thus increasing the achievement of the objectives. When the central authorities now organise such projects, it will be up to local and regional authorities and businesses to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1120	Governments point to the great effort made by the Government. It is in a way to exaggerate very much when we look at the efforts that have been made in relation to the Measles and other watercourses. The left front Water lake as campaign case no. 1 in the election campaign in Eastfold. The previous government proposed several milk quotas to Eastfold as an instrument for reducing agricultural pollution. This was transformed by the current government. Will the Council of State review this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1125	Let me first stress that you're doing well when you can refer to a target achievement of 100 pst. in some areas, and for phosphorus, which is one of the worst we can feed the type of watercourse, well over halfway. Then we are doing well, and I have notified that we will continue. It's a lot of effort, and it's an effort that needs to increase. With regard to the issue of milk quotas, I think the representative well knows that the negotiating parties have chosen not to go beyond the counties, e.g. to move quotas. from Finnmark to Østfold, which Finnmark would experience as very difficult, but keep strictly on distribution within the counties. If, in spring's agricultural settlement, we get what this government wants for more tradable quotas, it will open up more opportunities to take environmental considerations into account in the allocation of milk quotas. It has not been possible under previous regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1132	The ban on harvesting applies only around the Morsava stretch, and I fully agree that the Morsa project has shown that this is beneficial. But this is a problem. Akershus pollutes our watercourses in Eastfold. The Halden watercourse, which is also a drinking water source, is equally contaminated. Will the Council of State impose a ban on agriculture both in Akershus and Eastfold? It's a crisis. Toxins develop in our watercourses, so there is a danger that we do not have drinking water sources for the population of Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1137	I promise that the Ministry of Agriculture and the undersigned will follow closely whether we have sufficient legal and other means in place to improve the environment in these watercourses. There is no doubt that the situation we are developing in agricultural policy, where grassland and livestock production are being moved away from the central areas, and cereal areas are being preserved, has caused the open field problems to be great. I don't think the answer, for the sake of districts, is a re-channelization of all this, but it's possible to get very much and more than today, and it's still possible to have grassland even if you don't have milk quotas, for example. for meat production. It's completely possible. But I can assure the representative that we will continuously follow these things and use new tools if necessary to take care of our watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1142	We're now going to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1149	This question, from Anne Helen Rui to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1152	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘8. In June 2001, Stortinget decided to de-manage all lighthouses along the Norwegian coast. Is the Coastal Authority’s decision to set up a test station on the Stavernsodden lighthouse a decision that the Council of State cannot verify?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1161	Stavernsodden Führung is an entrance lighthouse, created in 1855, automated and de-manned in 1984. The Riksantikvarn has been included in the national first-year protection plan. The property is related to Citadelløya with protective construction and fastening facilities. After the redundancy, the Stavernsodden lighthouse has been hired to serve at the Meteorological Institute. The members of the association have cleaned up and restored the settlement, so that it is in very good condition. Most – 25 out of 31 – of the continuing manned prefectures carry out meteorological observations. As the plan for the de-manning of the fires, adopted by the Storting on 8 June 2001, it will be necessary to find other methods for such meteorological observations. On this basis, in a letter dated 12 June 2001, the Norwegian Meteorological Institute applied for the lease of the Stavernsodden Principality to establish a test station as part of the establishment of good and operationally safe measuring systems to replace the meteorological observations of the Principalities. The Meteorological Institute has stated that this will focus on methods/equipment that can compensate for the loss of visual observations and for automation. Particular attention will be paid to evaluating the stability of equipment over time and the supervision needed to obtain good results. Both for the Coastal Works and the Meteorological Institute, it is an expressed objective and in accordance with the leadership given, to find good solutions for continuing meteorological observations by de-manning the presidencies that are currently carrying out such observations. This will also benefit the general public more generally by the fact that, as a result of the test activities on the Stavernsodden lighthouse, reliable weather observations on the outer shores will continue to be possible. The Ministry of Fisheries does not consider this to be contrary to the manning of a fire. In the examination of Document No: 8:52 for 2000-2001, establishing a trust for the preservation of fortresses and other military-historical buildings, Stortinget took, among others: the following Decision: ‘The Government asked for various arrangements for the organisation of ownership and management of properties, buildings and structures of historical value.’ The Ministry of Labour and Administration has launched a pre-project, the Protection of the State’s Cultural Historical Properties. Government ownership policy. Here is also the proposal in St.meld. No 28 for 2000-2001, the First States – position and significance of a modern navigation infrastructure, that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environment are investigating alternative forms of management for peaceful first-time operations which are no longer used as navigational aid or which can be disposed of for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1177	I thank you for your answer. Does the Council know whether it is really such that the new test station cannot be on land near, or is it such that the costs of the Norwegian Meteorological Institute are more significant than the public's right to access the Stavernsodden lighthouse?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1182	It is such that the Norwegian Meteorological Institute has been approved to carry out this test project, which is designed to enable weather observations not only on this lighthouse but on 25 of the other guys who are currently manned and where it is done. One needs to acquire knowledge in order to continue to do weather observations without the guys being manned – and when it's written in my papers, I get to believe that's the case. At least I don't have the competence or the basis to try it out. But I know what's behind the question, it's about the use of the other property, etc. It is clear that this is a situation where it must still be possible to have a dialogue, for example. with local authorities, if there are other plans for the future disposal of these areas, such as: by concluding leases and making them available to the public while having the necessary procedures to implement the size of the fare and sale will. It must be possible, I think – if I can add at my own expense – to find good combinations that take into account both the needs of the general public and the needs of meteorologists to measure and look at the weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1187	Then I thank the Council of State very much for the answer. I also believe that the Norwegian Meteorological Institute is actually a service organisation for the Norwegian people. I would also like to believe that it will be possible to negotiate another form of agreement on the co-operation of some of the buildings on the Stavernsodden lighthouse, at least in the summer. If I interpret the other answers of the Council of State correctly, the Council of State Sponheim is very much in agreement with me that it should perhaps be settled in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1194	In accordance with the decision of the Grand Duchy, very careful procedures have been put in place for the future sale of these principalities, on which a tariff is to be applied, and on which exactly state, county or municipal institutions are to be given priority and where the public needs of course must be the main objective. The Ministry of Fisheries, which manages this on behalf of the State, does not have the power to go beyond the decision to enlarge. If you're going under the rate, or if you're going to do this very cheaply, you're going to have to go back to the Stortinge to ask permission for it. It is emphatic in my papers that the Ministry of Fisheries cannot directly transfer the Stavernsodden Principality to the municipality without following these very procedures I mentioned. However, the conclusion of a lease is possible pending a final decision. Then I think a little bit of the questioner's intentions and the opinion of the Council of State meets here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1199	Then we go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1205	‘The Police Directorate is concerned about the imbalance between the number of registered handguns and the activity on Norwegian shooting paths. The Arms Act requires that in order to purchase a revolver or a gun, you must be a member of the shooting club and have completed six months of shooting training. The intention is to use handguns for organized shooting. What is the Council of State’s view on this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1212	Section 7 of the Arms Act requires the person to acquire firearms to be sober and reliable. In addition, a need or other reasonable reason for the acquisition must be demonstrated. If pistols and revolvers are to be acquired for practice and shooting competition, he/she shall be required to demonstrate at least six months of active membership in a firing team/club attached to a shooting organisation approved by the Ministry of Justice. The Directorate of Police has issued the following statement to the Department on the situation: ‘The Directorate of Police has noticed that in some parts of the country there has been a misunderstanding between the number of registered single-arm weapons and the activity shown in the local shooting environment. As an example of this, the Police Directorate has noticed that in the Oslo and Akershus counties, 37,879 small arms of the type gun/revolver were registered as of April 2001, while in the region the activity does not appear to have been proportionate to the number of registered single-arm weapons, even though one considers that some of the weapons have been acquired for assembly. As some shooters seem to have acquired a much larger number of weapons than the activity was intended, the directorate has initiated constructive cooperation with the gunners’ organisations. The aim is to clarify how many weapons a shooter is assumed to have a real need to be able to exercise his sport from the level of activity he displays. One of the issues discussed with the shooter organisations is: the manner in which those not actively involved in the context of competition but shooting for recreational purposes are to be registered. The police directorate is also aware that some people join a gun club, are active for six months until they get the club’s confirmation of active membership, after which they acquire a number of small arms, before they leave the club after a relatively short period of time. It is clear from the Arms Act that the qualities of the applicant and the need for weapons available at the time of grant shall be available for as long as he/she has weapons. The police can therefore, in accordance with Section 10, second paragraph of the Arms Act, consider recalling weapons cards in cases where a gun owner no longer meets the requirements for personal characteristics or needs.» So far the statement from the Police Directorate. It is true that the use of firearms for various activities represents an important recreational opportunity for many in Norway and has strong historical and cultural anchors in many environments and non-governmental organisations. As Minister of Justice, I have been committed to maintaining people's opportunity to cultivate their leisure interests in this area, while at the same time it is important to have control mechanisms that prevent the use of firearms or get more out of hand. Several measures have therefore been implemented to improve the control and accountability of arms owners. I would therefore like to express my satisfaction that the Directorate of Police has put forward close cooperation with the gunners' organisations when considering issues related to ‘need requirements’ and the number of firearms that may be allowed to be acquired for the different purposes. However, I also consider it very important that any new control measures should be justified on the grounds that they will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Arms Act, namely increased security and security. I would therefore like to ask the Directorate of Police for a briefing on the cooperation and dialogue with the gunners' organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1238	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was a very profound and good answer. I am, like the Council of State, concerned with this problem. The Council of State answers show that there are 37 000 registered revolvers and pistols only in Oslo and Akershus, and on a national basis there are probably 50 000, so the problem is probably greatest in densely populated areas. I am pleased that this is now being followed up. I hope the Council of State can come back to Stortinget with this case if it turns out that there is a problem that so many people have guns and revolvers in Norway without participating actively in the shooting club.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1243	The representative can expect me to follow, because Norwegian arms policy is based on three pillars. Firstly, trust in healthy, voluntary, functioning organisations. Secondly, the right to withdraw arms from those who abuse it, including: in the case of a prohibition on having firearms in public places – and soon we will have a tightening of the provision on knives. And then, thirdly, there are some regulations that are also linked to the law, which I have quoted in my reply, and which also under given circumstances allow the police to search for advance notice in private homes. I'm going to hold on to the three arrows. And if that deviation happens, of course I'll take it up with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1251	‘It has been known over time that settlement queues in Norway are unacceptably long. The debate on crime prevention has no value as long as the condemned response cannot be completed quickly and effectively. What is the situation today, what will the Council of State do to reduce queues, and is working on the deployment of closed defence institutions, for example. Where is the king's wing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1258	There is no need to hide that the so-called reconciliation queue worries me. It is important that the individual convicted person reacts to crime as quickly as possible, and it is important that society sees it react. Thus, the reconciliation queue is in the process of weakening both the effectiveness of the fight against crime and the credibility of the actors in the criminal justice chain. The actual situation is that the housing queue is increasing. At the turn of the year, there were 2,057 judges who had not started a settlement within the two-month period. At the previous count, per 30 September 2001, the figure was 1,620 – so the increase has been 27 pst. Most of the judgments in the reconciliation queue are short and have a length of less than 60 days. Only one-fifth of the sentences are over 90 days. ==References== 60 pst. the boning queue is located in the eastern part of the territory. Atonement queue is not a new phenomenon. At the end of the 1980s and in the early 1990s, we had a pay queue with less than 7 000 judges. This balance was slowed down and the queue was squeezed out in 1994. Then there was an over-coverage of prison capacity until the end of 1999, when new sentences arose because Oslo prisons and Stavanger prisons had to reduce capacity due to necessary building work. After that, the queue has grown slowly to the day’s level. The current situation is that the general production of criminal cases in the police/enforcement and courts exceeds the prison capacity established. There is nothing to suggest that in the years to come the penalty will be reduced, and the Government has therefore stated in the Sem Declaration that it will work to increase the prison capacity. Unfortunately, establishing increased prison capacity is not a matter of hand-turn. New prison sites should also have a satisfactory standard both in relation to security and control challenges and in relation to the rehabilitation efforts to reduce relapse and to be staffed by skilled personnel. These conditions do not automatically make it an appropriate instrument to take over abandoned defence facilities or other institutions. Experience has shown that the cost of rebuilding facilities for prison purposes is as high as the cost of building new ones. Each camp is now being assessed by State Building, and we will have an analysis of the costs of converting the facility into a prison. The preliminary indications are that this seems to be a good basis for a new Kongswinger Prison that will increase its capacity. As a prerequisite for the expansion of prison capacity, we have provided for increased admission to the prison school. We aim to ensure that this high admission takes a few years to come in order to ensure the competence of criminal justice. Otherwise, we are working on a new large prison in Eastfold. I will come back to that in the budgetary process. In addition, we are working on expanding the capacity of existing institutions. There we have basic investments, including: in infrastructure, we can get good quality in extensions at the lowest cost level possible. I will also come back to this in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1279	I thank you for your answer. The answer is good when it comes to describing the fact, which is very serious. That you have an increase in the last six months of 27 pst. in relation to pay queues, and the fact that there are now 2 057 unsoned judges, cannot be described as anything but very serious. We also see that high-profile convictions in serious criminal matters actually have to go and wait to be called in at all. I must be allowed to challenge the Minister of Justice: is there any chance of taking immediate action, any temporary measures to reduce the growth we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1286	Let me first comment on the high-profile verdict of the representative Storberget to the media yesterday. I have found that case to be with the State Attorney. I expect the state attorney to send it to the courts very quickly because of the nature of the case. And then I can guarantee that he goes in quickly. It is also in line with the priorities set out in the Letter of Allocation to the Criminal Service. He/she is on a priority list and, of course, he/she should also have his/her desire to zone. As regards the situation, it has evolved over 2000 and 2001. In those years, the Workers' Party had government power. There were no immediate measures, but there was a positive work, among other things. related to new prisons in Eastfold. These are the measures we're working on. Then there has been a constructive dialogue with Stortinget about looking at abandoned military facilities. I believe that looking at these – and I particularly mention Vardåsen, which seems so far to be in good condition – must be an important measure that could give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1295	You can make this a debate about what's been done last year and in the past. But I am sure that the Minister of Justice agrees with me as to how important it is to combat crime that we get people into reconciliation, and that what we really need to turn the debate against is: what are we doing now? I repeat my question: does the Minister of Justice not see any possible interim measures, any immediate measures? And I would like to add: what kind of resource allocation to criminal services does the Minister of Justice see in the years to come, so that we can at all compensate for the growth in the number of'soning strenuous' – to use such an expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1302	When it comes to the budget, we'll come back to it later. With regard to the immediate measures, I would like to point out that we now have a capacity utilisation as high as one can get – up to 100 pst. – in Norwegian institutions. We've run duplicates where it's proper, and if we're going to run it any longer, the representative Storberget will suggest another reconciliation regime. In that case, it will be a policy I have to bear in mind. At least I am not aware that the Workers' Party – so far – has done so. So we've pushed this as far as we can. What we can do, but that's not true, is give general amnesties. I don't think we should do that. We have to give priority to this, and then the priority is very clear: Varetekt is given priority, long judges and judges, where the police state that sentences are active gang members, priorities – and shorter violent or violence-related judges. This will mean that others can sit and wait for a time, i.e. longer than two months. We have the greatest pressure here in the East. Therefore, it is no coincidence that Vardåsen is a current opportunity that I have so far been described as positive. And that's why there's no coincidence that there's going to be work on a new prison in Eastfold. It is simply to reduce the pressure that is present. The representative Storberget and I share one thing: we're going to deal with the present, not the past. If Storberget gives me that promise also hereafter, you cooperate well on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1316	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In the last few days, the Evening Post and Address Paper have focused on the large increase in crime among children and young people. More and more criminals are committing serious violent and drug crimes, and police, child protection, parents and schools feel powerless in the fight to get their children back on track. What new forms of reaction will the Council of State consider taking action against criminal children and young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1325	The statistics on offences targeted have shown a steady increase in the number of persons targeted in all age groups in recent years. This also applies to persons under 15 years of age. Although there is no basis for saying that the increase is particularly dramatic now, there is nevertheless every reason to draw attention to the young offenders, not least those who are under the criminal detainee. There is no good development that the use of violence and threats among the youngest is increasing and that the number of drug cases involving 15-17 years of age is increasing. Work with children and young people is a priority task for the Government. This worrying development is also one of the reasons why the 2002 budget allocation mandates the police to prioritise efforts to prevent crime among children and young people and to take borderline measures to prevent children from developing criminal behaviour. The action shall be carried out in cooperation with other bodies dealing with children and young people. The Sem declaration also clearly states that the Government will further develop cooperation between the various bodies so that a possible criminal runway can be halted at an early stage. Police, child protection, school and parents are all necessary co-workers when children who commit serious crimes are to be cared for. Children under criminal law who commit serious crimes pose a particular challenge. Here, there are questions both about who should follow up on reactions and about how to get comprehensive relief measures. A cross-ministerial working group conducted last year, among others. the need for clarification of responsibilities and rules for cooperation in actions against young offenders. A proposal for action and legislative changes, based on the report, has been consulted. In the light of the slightly different views of the hearing bodies, the Ministry of Justice has taken the initiative to clarify the issues in cooperation with other departments concerned. This applies, inter alia, to: issues related to the actions that meet the needs of the child while safeguarding the right of society to protection against crime. In my view, some of the proposals in the report can be implemented relatively quickly, which will help to stimulate increased efforts against childhood and juvenile delinquency. The government is therefore aiming to promote a proposition, probably for spring, where, among other things: addresses the issue of whether it should be criminal to encourage children under 15 years of age to commit crimes and whether to impose an obligation on the police to investigate crimes committed by children under criminal law. Furthermore, the proposition will address the question of whether it should be possible to make provision for the waiver of charges or conditional judgment that young offenders meet for mediation in the Conflict Council and that the agreements concluded at the mediation meeting, if any, are actually fulfilled. I would also like to assess whether the police are going to be able to order children and parents to meet for a ‘anxiety interview’ if the police have reason to believe that the minor is involved in criminal offences. Furthermore, we want the police to be able to decide that a child aged 12 to 15 may not be allowed to stay at a specific place if there is a clear risk that the child may commit a crime there. Let me end by pointing out the importance that the actions we want to present to the Storting seem to work together – that they are moving in the same direction – and that all bodies working with children and young people have a clear understanding of the overall objectives of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1344	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Government takes this seriously. It has proved to be a major problem that children are recruited by older criminals, including those in their early 12s. as intermediaries in drug traffic. When children are dragged into a criminal environment at an early stage, it is important to find measures that help them to stay away and to protect them from further ties. The Council of State mentioned a number of measures that the Ministry assesses. But is there any other proposal for action in the proposition that the Council of State can say anything about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1353	I can refer to measures that are at least relevant: one is that investigations are to be used in the preparation of cases under the Child Protection Act where crime is an element – we are also talking about minors. I would also like to look at the question of whether the six-week period – which the Advocate-General has included in his instructions – to take action if suspects are under 18 years of age, should be legalised. I would also like to address the question of professional secrecy, first and foremost by testing – in full employment – the obligation of professional secrecy as practised in different parts of the country. It is my belief that the obligation of professional secrecy gives good opportunities to cooperate if you want to. I'll test that. If, after the test, it turns out that we – even with highly skilled and safe professionals – have problems, we need to look at the rules of professional secrecy. I would also like to be so free and say that I have taken the initiative of the Minister for Children and Family into an open discussion on well-known issues that raise controversial criminal policy issues regarding the tasks of child protection. I think I'll say it that way. We live with a development where I don't think anyone – parents, psychiatrists, child protection or the police – can stand outside. I would also like to say that the police alone cannot solve this. The police can do a good job, but we have to get everyone on the field. Parents have to go, but then parents also have to know that if they don't get it, they're allowed to ask for help. And then we must also be able to endure the child protection debate, such as. The fring selection in its time was added.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1365	‘Only a small proportion of patients who are rescued from overdose deaths by ambulance services in the larger cities by the use of antidotes are followed up by emergency hospitalisations in somatic or psychiatric hospitals, which should be routine. What can the Council of State do to improve the medical follow-up of patients who are in need of medical attention from overdose deaths?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1372	Drug abusers shall have the same right as all others to the necessary health care when they need it and want it. In the case of overdose situations, this is probably a particularly demanding situation for all parties involved. Drug users need urgent help, but are not necessarily motivated for help and treatment. Auxiliaries must act quickly and in a sound manner. Drug users who have taken overdose and who need emergency assistance in addition to the ambulance staff can provide need to be admitted to somatic hospitals for further treatment. With regard to further follow-up and treatment beyond the acute need for help, the situation of the drug user and the estimated need for assistance at the time, whether somatic, mental or otherwise, must be decisive for further follow-up and treatment. The municipality of Oslo may state that there is a routine offer today of follow-up from the Outreach and Coordination Service in the event of overdoses. The situation when drug users wake up after acute treatment is usually complicated, as most drug users are often very confused and dissatisfied with the fact that the drug has been destroyed, and it is not necessarily so that they want further treatment. Voluntaryness is the best starting point for further treatment, as the motivation of the drug user will be crucial for rehabilitation. Of course, treatment without consent may be applicable in some of these cases. If the abuser opposes further treatment and there is no immediate help situation, there must be a legal basis for further treatment without the patient’s consent. Law on social services etc. § 6-2 provides the basis for the imposition of coercive measures on drug users. If there is a serious mental disorder in addition to drug use, the law establishing and implementing mental health protection may be relevant in order to establish compulsory protection. It is well known that drug users often need extensive health care. There is reason to believe that the severely weakened state of health makes addicts more prone to overdoses, all too often with death. The main measures taken by the Government are: Firstly, further efforts on the so-called lowthreshold measures for heavy drug users. These interventions have provided a health service to a significant number of drug users and indicate that they contribute to reducing drug users’ exposure to overdoses. The measures also have an important role to play by referring abusers to further relevant treatment. I point out that the Storting has joined the Government's proposal for an increase of 20 million. kr for this measure this year. Resources from this allocation have recently been allocated to 21 municipalities with major challenges in just overdose deaths. Secondly, this year’s Social and Health Directorate has been commissioned to review and assess the experience of both lowthreshold and medically assisted rehabilitation with a view to further developing these measures. Furthermore, the Directorate has been asked to assess how the response of ordinary health services can be strengthened in relation to drug users. Thirdly, the Ministry has recently sent, at the hearing, proposals on the state takeover of parts of the county's responsibility for drug abuse measures. The proposal implies that the State is given sole responsibility for the provision of specialist health services to this group. I believe that in the long term this conversion will mean better use of resources and better health care for drug users. Fourthly, the government is working on an action plan to address drug problems that will cover the work of several departments. Further development of health measures will be central to this. The action plan is planned to be submitted during the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1391	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, and I am very much in line with the Ministry and the Minister of Health for the actions listed here. It has been difficult to obtain accurate information on what is really happening in the context of acute drug overdose deaths among patients. That's often the claim against the claim. I have therefore decided to follow the call-out car two afternoon shifts to get a good overview of what is really happening. It is otherwise common in health services that patients with intoxins, i.e. poisonings of different kinds, are hospitalised as immediate help. I think it should be obvious that this also happened in this context. But – and we all agree on this – so far, drug addicts have not met very well-being in public health services, either at emergency hospitalisations or at hospitalisations. I then ask the Minister for Health: will something be done in relation to health businesses now and in relation to the instruction of health professionals to meet the needs of these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1402	I share a lot of the Alvheim representative's starting point, that this group of people don't get a good enough and an equivalent follow-up of healthcare. That is why I have started the Social and Health Directorate to review the way health services meet drug users. In extending that review, I expect questions to be raised about how we can strengthen our skills, how we can improve our attitudes. And along with the measures we put in place to organise the offer itself and to strengthen the health provision of this group, I believe that we should be able to meet this situation and this challenge in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1407	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I have just one short question: will the Minister of Health contribute to this becoming a theme of regional health businesses when the state reform is now on the rails and we have received a different legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1414	Of course, regional health enterprises should be implementing bodies for national health policy. When this issue is raised so clearly in the national health policy of the Government, one natural follow-up route will be to map to regional health businesses and to make demands on them in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1422	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «According to a notice published in Dagbladet on 13 February of this year. a number of applications for treatment for children with asthma in the South are rejected on the basis that there is insufficient funding for this purpose. From an applicant mass of approximately 700 is just going to be about. 170 granted, and that despite the fact that most of these 700 need such a stay in warmer places. Will the Council of State now ensure that sufficient resources are provided to allow more children with asthma to receive treatment in Spain?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1431	A joint programme for children with asthma, other chronic lung diseases and atopic eczema has been established during the treatment travel scheme. NOU 2000:2 shows that there is an unmet need for treatment travel for this patient group, given that the treatment effect can be demonstrated. As a result, estimates of the need for treatment travel for children with asthma, other chronic lung diseases and atopic eczema are currently uncertain. There is evidence that high mountain climate improves symptoms of asthma, bronchitis, atopic eczema and other skin diseases, but no published study of the effectiveness of treatment travel is available. The adult centres for asthma and allergies have produced a report that suggests a positive effect of treatment travel for this patient group. Although a system of treatment travel is in place for children with asthma, other chronic lung diseases and atopic eczema, it is desirable to better document the effectiveness of treatment travel for this group. The adult peak has therefore been given the means to implement a project to assess the impact of treatment travel. I have been informed that the project is expected to be completed in the first six months of this year. On the basis of this project work, I would like to assess whether the offer to this patient group can be extended beyond the allocation to the Treatment Flight Scheme under Chapter. 2790 item 72 Health care abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1449	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What's interesting here is what Gisle Red at the Adult Summit Centres for Asthma and Allergy says to the Daily in the same article: ‘Everyone who applies had benefited from a treatment course, now we have to pick out the sickest and say no to other very needy children’. It is also said that a number of these children do not actually manage through winter without having significant absences both from school and kindergarten as a result of their illness. It is shown, among others: in this Article, from the consultation of Gisle Red to the need and benefit of such a stay. Does not the Minister of Health take seriously the opinions of this summit at the Adult Summit Centre, which is to have the competence in the field of asthma and allergies that exist here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1463	This is precisely what the Ministry of Health has done when launching a project to ensure that the treatment effect of treatment travel for this group can be demonstrated in the scientific way that the entire treatment travel scheme actually requires. I intend to follow up on such a project report in relation to treatment abroad, if it provides sufficient scientific basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1468	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is interesting and to the extent regrettable that this group, which has so much need for treatment in the South and warmer strokes, now has to wait so long, because when you get the report, you have to assess it and then consider presenting it in the State budget. Then there is another winter for these children who have so much need to get help in the South. I urge the Minister of Health to carry out a very rapid examination of this report as soon as it is available – if you get a positive feedback in connection with the report – so that this group can quickly be expanded to a significantly larger number, which can then go into the winter in a much better way than is the case today, precisely because this weak group generally struggles so hard in everyday life to deal with its disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1477	It is precisely the professional environment at the Adult Summit Centre that is tasked with providing the documentation that the entire treatment travel system requires, and I assume that the professional environment will do so as quickly as it is at all reasonable. On that basis, I will consider using funds from the item Stortinget has granted for foreign treatment to this group already in the current year, when it can be demonstrated in such a way as the scheme requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1487	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «According to the Commandments of Asker and Bærum 13 February d.o.b. the Ministry of Health and Akershus County are in the process of concluding an agreement whereby Bærum Hospital loses up to 194 of the 298 apartments they currently have for their employees. The apartments are currently one of the hospital's leading recruitment tools in an area with great pressure on the housing market. What can the Council of State do to ensure that Bærum Hospital does not reduce its housing stock?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1496	The statement in Asker and Bærums Budstikke refers to the outcome of the discussions the department has had with Akershus County Municipality and the other county municipalities of the country, in order to clarify which properties are to be transferred to the State by the regional health establishments, may be retained by the county municipality according to the criteria of the Health Business Act § 52 paragraph. 6th@item: inlistbox In these discussions, the Ministry has exercised a discretion where, among other things, a have taken into account the actual use of specialised health services by housing, the degree of utilisation, location, importance as a human resources policy instrument, needs in other county sectors, such as: recruitment of other county personnel. In this context, I recall that there was a constant distance between the Ministry and the county councils on the scope of the Health Business Act and the properties covered by the transfer, and that this included, among other things, the following: in respect of housing. On this basis, only 8 out of 19 county municipalities have agreed on housing, including Akershus County. The result of the discussions with Akershus County Council implies that Bærum Hospital and the other hospitals in Akershus West will receive the rights to approx. 500 dwellings or approx. 80 pst. of the number of dwellings to which hospitals in the area have so far had access, through the right of disposal of dwellings in the Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential Residential In other words, hospitals in the area will continue to have access to a significant number of dwellings that, through targeted management and exploitation, will appear as a key tool of human resources policy in the future. I would also like to stress that the changes will not take place immediately, by agreeing with the county council that personnel in the specialist health service who currently live in dwellings that the county municipality is supposed to own will retain their contracts. I have noticed the criticism that has come against the housing solutions at Bærum Hospital. The Ministry of Health will initiate dialogue with Health East, the enterprises concerned and Akershus County Municipality, with a view to establishing comprehensive solutions to meet the functional needs of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1513	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What has been reacted to, as the Minister of Health also did, is this reduction in the number, and there is already a lack of housing today. It is assumed that half of the real need can be met, and the recruitment situation is, as the Minister of Health is well-known, difficult everywhere, not least the housing situation is particularly difficult here. But I understand the Council of State there that one will work to meet this. Does the Council of State realize that it is going to be there that the hospital can maintain housing to some extent today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1522	The line that has been worked on so far has been that one takes over housing and, on the other hand, takes over the right to dispose of dwellings owned by housing foundations and others, in order to have an acceptable overall situation in terms of using it as an instrument of human resources policy. It will also be the starting point for the dialogue I have announced that the Ministry of Health will start with the regional health enterprise, the hospital enterprises concerned and the county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1531	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The pharmacists are obliged, under the terms of the concession, to meet the need for medicinal products in people who must have medicated in the individual case, e.g. people with allergies, hypersensitivity, etc. These are often medicines with low volume and low profitability. The State Medicines Agency has made very strict demands on such production. How has the Ministry ensured compliance with the pharmacy concession conditions and what has been done to ensure that the strict quality requirements for such production have been met?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1540	Paragraphs 5 to 3 of the Pharmacy Act impose on pharmacies the universal obligation of all medicinal products authorised for sale in this country, including medicinal products which must be manufactured for customers in the individual case. Under the old Pharmacy Act, the supply of special medicinal products was ensured by the obligation of all pharmacists themselves to have capacity for self-production. However, the demand for pharmaco-produced medicinal products is relatively low. According to the Apotheker Association of Norway, the self-production of apothets does not exceed 1 pst. of the turnover. It is therefore not rational to require all pharmacies units to have their own production capacity. It is also beneficial to centralise part of this production, since the maintenance of production competence requires a certain amount of production. On this basis, capacity for self-production became optional under the new Pharmacy Act which entered into force on 1 March 2001. In return, the law requires that all pharmacists "must demonstrate the ability to supply rapidly and safely medicinal products which must be manufactured in each case after prescription". The requirement can be met in two different ways according to the pharmacy regulation § 7: either by the fact that each pharmacy itself has a manufacturing permit, or by the conclusion of a contract for the supply or so-called rental production with a manufacturer of such medicinal products. The pharmacy is not allowed to sell medicinal products until such a dossier has been submitted to the National Medicines Agency and no exemption from this requirement is granted. The National Medicines Agency is supervising compliance with pharmacies legislation, and the National Medicines Agency is now planning in the near future to carry out a specific monitoring of both the quality and availability of medicinal products manufactured in the individual case. I would also like to add that the maximum price regulation on medicinal products was in some cases lifted from 1 January this year. This ensures that pharmacies do not suffer losses and should lead to increased pharmacies spending on providing adequate services in respect of such medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1551	I am aware that after the entry into force of the new Pharmacy Act, one had to rely on increased competition, and that new owners might need to rationalise their operating arrangements in order to meet just increased competition and perhaps increased demand for returns. Therefore, my concern was for patients who needed drugs that the pharmaceutical industry did not want to deliver because of low volume or low profitability. It was satisfactory to hear that the Minister of Health is fully aware of this problem. I'm glad to hear that. But to what extent does one today have control that all pharmacies actually deliver the goods covered by the universal service obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1558	I refer to what I said in my first answer, that pharmacies are not allowed to sell medicines until such documentation has been given to the National Medicines Agency, and that there are no exceptions for this. The Swedish Medicines Agency reports that they have received five–six different requests that patients have been referred to other pharmacies because the pharmacies find it difficult to order themselves. This is an unfortunate outcome, which must be reacted to. The scheme of the Agency implies that all pharmacies will now have to respond separately in relation to how they comply with the universal service obligations of specially manufactured medicinal products, both in terms of delivery times, level of supply and demand from customers. It will therefore be a broad screening – so to speak – of the pharmacies that will now be implemented during the current month, after I have been informed by the Statens Medizinverket.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1565	It was satisfying to hear. The Minister for Health mentioned in his first reply that one has raised the maximum price of these products. One may suspect that there are pharmacies that increase the price of either cutting the demand for such products or securing high profits. As a result, patient groups are exposed to a difficult situation due to a possible lack of control. Can the Minister of Health do anything to prevent such high pricing that patients do not actually receive the medicines they are entitled to receive from each pharmacy under the terms of the pharmacy concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1574	The starting point is that pharmacies are obliged to ensure that such goods are delivered. In the context of the granting of new concessions, evidence of such delivery capacity is strictly enforced. I expect that, when the Medical Products Agency is now to carry out a supervision covering all its pharmacies, they will turn down aspects of practices that are not consistent with the intentions of the legislation, namely ensuring patients access to the medicines they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1583	‘From time to time, there are media presentations about various forms of alternative medicine, such as: in the Official Journal of Bergen on 9 February of this year, which shows that the defined natural product has produced good results in the treatment of cancer. The time taken by the Council of State to submit a report on alternative medicine, including: are listed in the Sem declarations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1590	Alternative medical treatments have proved to be a valuable supplement and a good alternative to the regular provision of healthcare. I believe that it is important to have an open attitude to alternative medicine and to natural products. Putting the patient in the centre also means that the patient must have the freedom to choose treatment methods that have traditionally not been part of the general healthcare system. In order for patients’ choice to be effective and safe, it is necessary to work towards increased scientific understanding of the principles upon which alternative practitioners base their activities. It is necessary that the effectiveness of the different treatment methods is well documented and that this information is made available to patients and to healthcare. The Ministry is now working on a review of the regulation of the Medicines Act on which health claims can be linked to non-medicinal products. I intend to present an odelstingsproposal about this in ours. The Norwegian Research Council has financed the establishment of an alternative medicine competence environment located at the Institute for Pharmacy at the University of Tromsø. The environment plays a central role in the research programme, which includes patient-related clinical research and alternative medicine. The programme has the potential to create fertile meeting places between the established medicine and different forms of alternative medicine. Studies that may have consequences for clinical practice in healthcare are a priority in the Programme Plan. This means that evidence of the effect of alternative treatments is a central theme. For patients’ freedom of choice and safety, it is also important that alternative medical treatments are given a proper place in relation to the established healthcare system. Solving this issue in a good way is an important challenge. In the Sem Declaration, it is announced that the Government will present a big message on alternative medicine in the light of the Aarbakke Committee's attitude. During the 2002 budgetary procedure, the Stortinget Government asked the Government to provide such a big message during 2002. In this context, the government was also asked to assess authorisation for new health professionals groups. I'll follow up on this. In this respect, I would also like to assess the necessary legislative changes. A general issue in the context of legal work will be the role of alternative practitioners and treatment modalities in relation to ordinary health care. Specific issues that need to be considered include: whether a separate authorisation system is to be established for alternative practitioners and the extent to which new groups of practitioners may be authorised as health professionals under the Health Care Act. Another question is whether instead of an authorisation system, a system of registers should be established for this group of processors. Furthermore, issues of professional secrecy for non-health professionals and criminal regulation of alternative medical treatment must be considered. In this case, the latter could lead to the repeal of the Quack Salvage Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1613	I thank you for a positive answer. I am pleased that the Council of State has an open attitude to alternative medicine and to the natural product, and that the Council of State stresses that this is the concern of the patient who is to be at the centre. It is also a pleasure to be informed that the Council of State is offensive in dealing with this issue. Now I think it might be sometimes difficult to distinguish between what is traditional medicine and what is defined as alternative medicine. All the time, there's a development going on. My question will then be: Will the work currently in progress also focus on a borderline between alternative and traditional medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1620	Some of the core issues in dealing with this question will be how to create a good meeting point for what we call school medicine, and alternative medicine. I think the best answer to that question is documented effect. Where the effect of alternative medical treatment can be demonstrated, a professional meeting point with school medicine will naturally be held. And I think it's from such meeting points, defined by documented effect, we need to develop a more natural interaction between the ordinary health care and alternative medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1627	I thank you for the answer to the follow-up question. I believe that medicinal products that work and that are not too expensive will in fact always be interesting, because this is about basic security. Life and health will never become an indifferent theme for us human beings. That's why I'm very pleased with the positive signals that are now coming from the Council of State, which in reality, as I understand it, means that the department here will be on the hook and contribute to a safe and positive development, whether the product is called alternative or traditional medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1634	I can confirm an offensive attitude. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is a demanding terrain to move in – not particularly tidy. Having some basic principles drawn from the Biggest side will be necessary to move forward. I would like to invite the Stortinget to this announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1639	Then we go to question 35.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1645	This question, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland and will be answered by the Minister for Health who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1648	‘The Euratom Directive opens the way for radioactive waste to be incorporated into consumer goods. The Directive was adopted without this fact being made visible to Stortinget. Numbers from the Irish coast show excess leukemia, probably due to waste from Sellafield. Governments’ – Børge Brende, not Højbråten – ‘has the front Sellafield case because of the environmental consequences. Radioactive waste in consumables can lead to serious consequences for the environment and health. Will the State Council take the initiative to stop products from nuclear waste?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1655	Norway does not participate in EURATOM cooperation. We are therefore not bound to implement the provisions of EURATOM Directive 96/29. This Directive has not been adopted in Norway or transposed into Norwegian law. However, goods produced in accordance with the Directive are subject to the rules of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of goods. It is based on internationally recognised fundamental principles and is intensive in relation to previous Directives. I would like to state that Directive 96/29 Euratom lays down basic safety standards for the protection of workers and the general public against ionising radiation. This Directive is an up-to-date safety standard replacing a number of earlier directives. In the EU, the Directive has been implemented in the Member States to harmonise radiation protection legislation. The EURATOM Directive provides that Member States are to require prior authorisation, inter alia. the deliberate addition of radioactive substances to the production and manufacture of consumables and the importation and export of such products. One of the basic principles of all international radiation protection management is that any use of radiation shall be justified or, in other words, justified. This means that it is necessary to demonstrate a net useful value for the use of sources of radiation. This principle is reflected in Article 6 of the Directive. The deliberate addition of radioactive substances to a product is only relevant where the radioactive properties of the substance are intended to be used. This applies, for example: for the production of smoke detectors, light indication on warning signs and compass needles and other. The addition with the intention of becoming white radioactive waste is not justified and is therefore not permitted. However, if products were to come which the Norwegian authorities consider to be harmful to health, Section 20 of the Radiation Protection Act could be applied. It lays down: «The radiological protection of the Member States may refuse the import or placing on the market of any product or substance and of any product likely to present a risk to health or the environment from radiation, provided that this does not conflict with international agreements concluded with Norway.» This means that we can refuse import or turnover if it occurs under the rules agreed in the EEA cooperation. Article 13 of the EEA Agreement shall apply, inter alia: the prohibition of products harmful to health, taking into account the life and health of humans and animals. The State's radiation protection system informs that Norwegian control and prevention efforts to address these problems take place through self-control, border control and an extensive international warning system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1672	I have previously asked the Minister of Health about this problem, in June 1999, and some of the answers at the time are similar to what we received today – not least that one does not have to implement it. In the time when this was up, there was very little debate about it in Stortinget. 1st@item: inlistbox Is it up to the Council of State, based on the information I have with me, and as the Council of State itself submits, to go a new round with the Storting on this?2. Does the Council of State see the precautionary principle being followed, as it is actually a country – the United Kingdom, where Sellafield is located – that has not implemented this directive?3. Is it so to understand that the Council of State is bid to prohibit the importation of such goods? This is how I interpret him. I thank you for the answer - I forgot to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1689	As for the relationship with the Stortinget – since it has also been up in the public debate today – let me just say briefly that the information I have provided today is consistent with the information I provided in my reply to Hallgeir H. Langeland on 2 June 1999 and is also reflected in the proposition that was promoted for the Stortinget on 18 June of that year. The whole point of the Radiation Protection Act is to prevent harmful effects of radiation on human health. The basic safety requirements of the law state that any import, placing on the market, use or handling of sources of radiation must be sound and the safety requirement requires that if radiation is to be applied in a product this shall be justified. I mentioned some examples of products where that might be justified. But it has to be justified that the use of radiation has a useful value in the product. It is not only that the authorities have the right to refuse the import and placing on the market of any product which could pose risks to health and the environment, but they also have an obligation to assess this when those questions are raised. I believe that Norwegian legislation provides an opportunity to practice a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1698	I want to repeat what I said about the United Kingdom, so the Council of State will have the opportunity to answer it. I just have to say that the way I interpret the Council of States, he thinks that a good overview of this problem is so good that if it should be, it will be prohibited to import. It then evaluates one in each case. This is how I interpret him. Then the follow-up question is, is it possible to have such a control when you know how many products you're talking about in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1705	With regard to the United Kingdom's position on this directive, I have been informed by the British authorities that they have implemented the directive, with the exception of this point, but that they also intend to implement it – so I do not think we should make it a major political point in the Norwegian debate. In the case of Norwegian legislation, therefore, we have a right to refuse the import or placing on the market of products that are harmful to health. It is my political position that we should use that provision in the framework of the international commitments we have in the EEA Agreement. When it comes to monitoring and control, I would like to remind you that the market itself is very effective in responding to products that are harmful to health. In addition, Straw Delivered Control Mechanisms have been linked to self-control and border control and extensive alert cooperation with international bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1725	This question has been raised. Question 18 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1739	This question has been raised. Question 20 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1746	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The government is now proposing that testing be carried out using a device state. The proposal may be referred back to the proposals in a KS-KOU 1-98 investigation. A key prerequisite for this investigation is that the new county administration is subject to popular governance through the county. Can the Council of State confirm that the Government’s arrangement for a unitary state will mean that the regional authority currently added to the county will be subject to popular government through the county council?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1755	First, let me make it clear that the detailed arrangements for the unitary test facility will be presented by the municipal minister in the keynote that the government is going to promote in the spring. It is therefore not right for me to go into detail about the trial scheme. Without going into detail, I would like to make it clear that, on the part of the Government, it is a clear premise that important administrative policy principles are respected in the experimental models. The consideration of the legal certainty of citizens and the need for an independent supervisory authority are two such principles that will guide the design of the unitary test. Today, the county office carries out a number of supervisory and review tasks. In order for citizens to experience supervision and review procedures as a guarantee of legal certainty, the Board of Supervisors and Appeal must be independent and competent in relation to the body responsible for the provision of services or which takes decisions at first instance. The unitary model must therefore be designed in such a way as to convey these tasks and not create the impression of rolling uncertainty. This is what the Government has put in place to guide the work of unit states. In addition, we need to review today's tasks at the county council and see where there is, where possible, a regional policy area of action which provides for a political anchoring in the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1766	I thank you for your answer. When it comes to getting clear roles, I'm very much in agreement with what the Council is now saying. I agree that it is the county that should carry this out with oversight. It is doubtful that the number of positions in the county office has become six-fold from 1976 until today's date, i.e. an increase of 600 pst. What the county council has is to be reviewed in the light of what is to be submitted by the municipal minister. I see there are some things that have changed since the Task Distribution Selection option got several numbers here in Stortinget. But the Council of State sees that the departments that are under the state, such as the the director of education and the county education department may be merged into a department and that it is the nationally elected body to govern e.g. These two previous departments, which can now be one?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1775	I can essentially just repeat what I've already said, that the details of the arrangement, it won't be right for me to talk about or so far as the time to do it now. But what I can say is that some of the problems that have been asked about here have to do with supervision. So they have to be fenced in with the elected body. The other tasks of the education and training offices and others in charge of administration shall be integrated in relation to the county of the testing scheme. But it's not a matter of taking the department section and saying that they and those departments will be integrated with the county council, while they and those departments will be incorporated because of the complaints and supervisory tasks, because in many cases the boundaries are going across the departments of the county today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1782	This may indicate that there are some tasks that the Cooperative Government will still remove from the county level. I didn't think it would be unnatural for the Council of State to confirm that it was natural to look at them in the context of a number of tasks at state level today. I note the Council of State's response, but in order to take a concrete question at the end, can the Council of State confirm that there is still the state level, the state level, which is to exercise supervision and control, and that no matter how the departments are merged, is this to be under elected government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1787	What I can stress very strongly is that the supervisory task is a State task, that the county council cannot supervise activities in the primary municipalities on the basis of the relationship between these two, and that the supervisory tasks must therefore be done in relation to the unitary model. This is crucial in terms of legal certainty for citizens, and we will ensure that. Moreover, it is clear that there is a job to be done in order to make the efforts of unit states work in a way that both gives people elected governance over what should be governed by the populace and ensures that the supervisory authority is independent from the elected body.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1805	This question falls away. So we go to question 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1814	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1817	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration, who will answer on behalf of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «New state asylum reception facilities are established in the municipalities of Østfold. In Sarpsborg, the municipality is burdened with considerable expenditure due to the imposition of services on the residents. In Fredrikstad, Veumaleen, State reception for asylum seekers is given to asylum seekers from Kosovo and Turkey who have been refused asylum application in Sweden after careful treatment. In order to achieve control of inflows and faster application procedures, should not those with refusals in Dublin cooperation countries be returned there immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1826	Norway acceded to the Dublin Convention in April 2001. The Convention is intended to prevent so-called asylum-hopping and to establish clear rules for which country is responsible for each asylum-seeker. It is true that today there are asylum seekers in Norwegian reception who have previously been treated for their asylum applications in Sweden or other countries associated with Dublin cooperation. When these asylum seekers are not returned immediately upon arrival in Norway, this is because different procedural rules of the Dublin Convention mean that it will always take some time before repatriation can take place. After the police have carried out fingerprint investigations, the Norwegian authorities must send a formal request for acquisition or withdrawal to the Dublin country in question. Getting answers to such a request may take some time. If you are accepted for repatriation, the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs will accept a refusal and the asylum seeker will be expelled to the Dublin State. Such a decision shall be taken as soon as possible and the Directorate has strengthened its readiness to deal with these matters expeditiously. After a final decision, the shipment shall be expeditious and the police shall give priority to these matters. In order to streamline and simplify the return procedures, Norway is now working to establish specific agreements with Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Germany. The agreements will allow an asylum seeker to be returned immediately to one of the Contracting States if it is likely to be more closely responsible under the Convention. Otherwise, I can mention that the directorate has initiated a rapid handling of applications that have been assumed to be groundless. These cases are not subject to a Dublin procedure, and therefore they may be expedited, in many cases faster than if the application were dealt with under the Dublin Convention. With regard to the establishment of new receptions, I would like to state that the UDI is responsible for ensuring that there are at all times a sufficient number of reception points for asylum seekers in Norway. In this context, reception is currently being established in all the counties of the country, including Eastfold counties. In connection with the establishment of reception, the municipality receives a host municipality compensation to cover the costs of health care, child protection, interpreting and administration incurred in the course of the reception. The municipal compensation consists of two elements, one of which is a basic amount of NOK 175 000 that the municipality receives irrespective of the number of reception places. In addition, $1,900 per person. the place of reception in the municipality. These grants shall cover the municipal expenditure referred to above.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1841	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Department is now working hard to do something in this area. It's a huge influx to Norway, and what we risk if we don't get ahead of ourselves in this work is that those who have a real need for protection, real refugees, get stuck in long queues because the UDI and the receiver are overworked. In the municipality of Sarpsborg, which is one of many municipalities in Eastfold, where state reception is now established, there has been a dissatisfaction with the assignment of tasks, because the full costs of precisely what was mentioned by the Council of State, health and interpreting services, child protection and administration have not been met. So here you get an amount of 479,000 dollars to cover this. However, the municipality makes its own accounting for receipts in order to put on the table the real and necessary costs of providing these services [[President clubs]] Will the Council of State put in place schemes, as is the case in Sweden and Denmark, where full costs are covered when municipalities are charged with these services?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1850	It is not desirable for any party that the state from time to time sees itself as having to establish reception for asylum seekers in municipalities that initially do not want to do so. However, we must take on board the obligations we have with those who seek asylum in Norway, and the least we have to offer is accommodation for those who come. In several areas, municipalities have the same responsibility for residents in reception as elsewhere in the municipality. In line with the assumption that state reception should not be a financial burden for municipalities, financial compensation is granted to host municipalities for government reception. This host municipality compensation shall cover the municipal expenditure of interpreters, health services, child protection and the administration of the receptions. And there's nothing else to say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1855	Øystein Hedstrom – for additional questions. The President shall ask the representative to remain within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1858	Yes, then we start in 30 seconds – now! The Ministry and the UDI have now started with a new way of outsourcing asylum seekers, so-called spread settlement in decentralised reception. This has been tried in a number of other countries, including the United Kingdom. in the Skåne area of Sweden. The evaluation of the private housing model concludes that this works for ghettoisation and against integration. Will the Ministry take over the results obtained in scattered settlements in other countries and learn from them so that the same mistakes have not been made there?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1865	As regards the attempt to find housing for asylum seekers, this was proposed in St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001, asylum and refugee policy in Norway. The proposal was approved by Stortinget. In the committee setting, there was agreement on the establishment of a pilot scheme in which asylum seekers can find housing themselves. It was assumed that this was done within structures linking individuals to reception. Experience from Sweden, which has had a system of so-called owner-occupiers since 1994, is both positive and negative. There is a need to gain more knowledge of alternative forms of reception in Norway in addition to today’s reception system with mainly centralised reception. A pilot project in which residents from reception can find a place to live with some housing support is primarily an action to increase knowledge in this area in finding models that provide greater opportunities for an active life and can also be economically viable for society as a whole. We have learned that long stays in reception can act as a passive and reduce the ability of residents to master. So we maintain that the experiment makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1872	We're going back to question 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1878	‘In April 1998 a majority of the Government of the United Kingdom asked for the possibility of extending the list of occupational diseases so that it would also include special aggravation and stress diseases which are clearly occupational. What investigations have been carried out by the Ministry, and in what way has the results of these investigations been followed up. amending the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in such a way that occupational aggravation and stress disorders are treated in the same way as other occupational diseases.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1885	Persons who are victims of a professional injury may be entitled to a number of special advantages in social security and compensation from compulsory professional indemnity insurance. In particular, damage caused by an accident at work is regarded as an occupational injury. In addition, regulations list certain typical occupational diseases assimilated to occupational injury. These are disorders that, in experience, are a particular risk of incurring work. Long-term stress disorders are generally exempted from occupational injury coverage. In 1998, the Storting asked the then Bondevik government to investigate the possibility of including some specific occupational stress disorders in the list of occupational diseases. The Ministry has ensured that the possibility of including some load disorders in the list has been investigated, including: with the assistance of the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work. A report on the case was submitted to the Ministry on 22 November 1999 and then sent to the hearing. The report does not recommend a general extension of the occupational injury coverage to include stress disorders. However, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work proposes a few special stress diseases that should be considered in the list of occupational diseases. In the consultation round there were shared views. The employee organisations are largely in favour of extensions, while the employers’ side and those in charge of the occupational injury schemes, the Riksstrøgdeverket and the insurance industry are opposed. Otherwise, the report proposed a special rule for injuries arising after the lifting of personnel, which is a particular problem in the care and care sector. The hearing bodies are broadly in favour of this proposal, but the insurance industry is opposed. The case was not followed up by the Stoltenberg administration after this consultation round. I see that the matter has significant administrative problems and involves difficult demarcation issues. The Stoltenberg government set up a public body to assess important issues in the field of occupational injury, including: in the case of organisation and proceedings. A professional injured person may, today, be entitled to specific occupational injury benefits from public security and compensation from compulsory professional indemnity insurance. So the victim has to deal with several different sets of rules and agencies. The sample shall consider bringing together the different benefits of occupational injury in one scheme to achieve simplification and improved resource use. The Committee shall deliver its opinion by 1 May 2003. Any changes in the organisation and procedure in this area should therefore be considered before considering any possible extension. In my opinion, replacing some of the stress disorders now could be a burden on an administrative and medical apparatus that is already being criticised by different teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1904	Thanks for the answer. The anticonceptions to which the Council of State refers are, of course, things that are known. And the starting point for this matter in its time was raised in Stortinget, was a broad will to do something about it. It is obvious that legislation in this area is clearly discriminatory for women, as also pointed out by the NOU in terms of women’s health. It is and was a broad wish on the part of the majority of the population to do something about this, and it has been a long time without the Stortinget having at least received any feedback from the enquiry made in the form of this decision. Will the Council of State take the initiative to give us a wider treatment of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1915	It is important that individuals are assessed on their own initiative and disease. Nevertheless, the Government has focused on the fact that it is the ability to work that needs to be focused on the ability to return to work. The selection is limited. That's right, as the representative says, it's an unclear piece of legislation, and it has to be followed up. The sample shall consider bringing together the different benefits of occupational injury into one scheme to achieve simplification and improved resource use. The attitude comes as mentioned on 1 May 2003, and we will follow up the case afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1922	There are several aspects of social security legislation that clearly discriminate against women, and there are also aspects of health services that have a discriminatory effect. It is described in this NOU for women and health. It is probably a relationship that the government will also follow up with a matter for Stortinget. Will the Minister of Social Affairs contribute to a broad assessment of the relationship between women and health services and social security legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1929	Yes, it is important that both women's and men's health be assessed in a comprehensive way, and we will of course focus on it when we follow the case up after the sample has come up with its position. Then we're going to have a good, wide and thorough review.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1937	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Young adults with ADHD disability often do not receive sufficient help, including: has rejected a request for user-led personal assistance from municipalities in Vestfold. Parental emergency calls are not followed up, and consequences can be disastrous for both the people with ADHD and their surroundings. What does the Council of State think must be done to improve their situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1946	User-driven personal assistance is an alternative organisation of practical and personal assistance for severely disabled people who need assistance in their daily lives. Applications for user-led personal assistance shall be assessed within the same legal framework as the other services referred to in Section 4-2 of the Social Services Act. This implies that, in consultation with the user, the municipality should make an individual assessment of the individual’s need for assistance. Those who cannot take care of themselves, or are completely dependent on practical or personal assistance to do the tasks of daily life, are entitled to help. However, the municipality decides on the type of service to be provided. If the municipality acknowledges that there is a need for assistance, but believes that the form of assistance requested is inappropriate, the municipality should consult the applicant in order to find a better solution that both parties can accept. The representative of Skarbøvik has previously shown that a municipality in Vestfold has rejected an application for user-led personal assistance on the grounds that the user cannot discharge the responsibilities of the employer alone. When the system of user-led personal assistance was dealt with in the Stortinget, the Social Committee pointed out that, in the light of the experience gained during the trial period, related persons or auxiliary workers should not be excluded from assisting in the managerial function. This has not been made clear enough in the circular to the municipalities today, and I will therefore make this clear. Auxiliaries in municipalities will not always have sufficient competence to assess all types of assistance needs. As far as ADHD is concerned, it is clear that there is a need to provide more competence. A State Centre of Competence, ‘National Unit of Competence for AD/HD, Tourette’s Syndrome and Narcolepsy’, has therefore been established to disseminate competences and to assist other auxiliaries. In addition, in the case of adults with ADHD, three regional expert teams linked to the medical profession are established, located in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim respectively. These teams assist the auxiliaries in individual matters and contribute to building their competences locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1957	Thank you for a positive answer, which I think will help us to help even more than today. It is important to find solutions that help those who are totally dependent on practical or personal assistance to do their daily life's tasks, and then this is precisely what is important with user-driven personal assistant and a good solution. I am pleased that the Council of State will make this clear to the municipalities, because here it has probably been a misunderstanding, by the fact that the Social Committee said in its comment that related persons or auxiliary workers are not to be excluded from assisting in the management function, has not achieved well enough. I understand from the answer that a municipality cannot exclude this solution, where an intermediary, a related person – a mother, if any – can take part in the management function and help you get a user-controlled assistant. I would like to make it clear that this will now be sent around – that the municipalities will receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1968	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1973	It is nice that it can be established, because I know that this has not been followed up in the municipalities in such a way. In the end, I just want to follow up on the last thing that was said in the answer about the ADHD competence centres, which are supposed to assist the auxiliaries. I know that this medication is a problem. To get Ritalin you have to go for three months and wait before you can get in on medication, if you're diagnosed after you're 18. We know that prisons today are full of people with ADHD because of drug addiction and many who have a criminal career. Can the Council of State also look into the possibility of doing something about this, so that you can get into treatment in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1980	State Council Ingerd Schou, be as good – as far as possible, we're starting to move a little away from the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1983	Yeah, so did I. The representative would say that it is important for those who have a diagnosis of ADHD to receive help and offers. I also know that there has been a special framework on how this treatment should be. However, I do not know it in detail enough, but of course I look at the matter if it is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e1993	I have the following questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In a lecture by the Prime Minister and in a letter from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it is said that the majority of the regional and regional policy instruments from category 13.50 on the State budget are to be added to the county municipality. SND is now adapting to the major cuts proposed by the Government and adopted by the majority of the population in the state budget of the year. What impact will this have on SND and will the Council of State clarify the role and extent of SND in the development of nutrition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2002	The resources for rural business and business development are currently managed in full by the SND. Most of the funds are allocated to the SND district office via the counties. The Government wants to strengthen the county councils as a development actor by giving them greater responsibility for managing the regional policy instruments. For SND, this will mean that the leaders will come more strongly from the county rather than from the state. This will give municipalities greater freedom to make assessments based on local and regional conditions. There is now work to explore the administrative implications of the SND operating framework in the context of the Storting budget decision for 2002. The Government aims to return with a more comprehensive assessment of the activities, organisation and possible actions of the SND in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2002. Furthermore, this must be seen in the context of a comprehensive review of the publicly funded instrument aimed at business. The SND will be included in this review. There is a need to assess the effectiveness of the instrument and to adapt it to the needs of business. Moreover, in the light of increased emphasis on the general framework conditions, it is necessary to intensify efforts towards areas where private markets do not function effectively. In this context, both existing and new instruments will be considered. The review shall be conducted by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and shall form part of a proposal for a new composition of the instruments and the organisation of the apparatus. This work shall be completed in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2013	I thank you for your answer. It wasn't very clarifying about the future role of SND. Of course, it is true that the instrumentation is not an objective in itself, it is the regional development of economic activity that is the objective. But SND has done a good and necessary job for developing skills and business development, and it actually also concluded the growth majority with as late as last year. But we also know that in order to finance taxes of 3.4 billion kroner, there were, among other things. cut down on development projects in the Norwegian business sector in the government budget of NOK 1.7 billion in total, and in fact at a time when we are struggling with the necessary establishment, especially in the district of Norway. And it's not that tax incentives help a lot for start-ups and small businesses at an early stage of development. In this process, SND received a reduction of 25 pst, which will result in a reduction of about 100 added osb. And then there's an additional signal now, and then I thought the council had to clarify the role of the SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2020	As the representative is well aware – that is the question – we are adjusting the organisation of the SND according to the decisions taken in Stortinget. In addition, we have a review of the whole tool, including the SND, to see if we have the right things in focus in relation to the available resources. Then the representative, Rudihagen, referred to an early stage in an enterprise's life. I've actually had a meeting with SND this morning, and it's quite obvious that the focus is going to turn more towards start-up, innovation and innovation, compared to what goes on in the general operation of a company's life. The result will be the autumn after this process has been completed, but the impact of the year’s budgetary decision will be reflected in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2029	I would like to thank you again for your answer. It's okay that there's a process going on, but the government is also giving you some signals. The prime minister said 800 million. kr would be added to regional development measures in the county. Erna Solberg also writes in a letter she sent out that the responsibility for the BU funds should be transferred to the primary municipalities – in itself it is 60 years’ work. In addition, Gabrielsen and the Government have previously signalled a privatisation of the loan portfolio – which actually amounts to NOK 30 billion – which will also result in a large loss of income for SND. So what's left for SND? It's interesting to see Gabrielsen talking about strengthening the role of the county council. We know that Right has a programme to wind up the county. It's not many days since I heard the leader of the county to the right of Oppland say that the county municipality would be gone in 5-6 years. Now Gabrielsen is talking about strengthening the role of the county council. Is Gabrielsen talking from the heart?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2038	Where in my body my speech comes from is not particularly interesting, at my discretion. Those are the words that are said, which must be the interesting thing. Just as in the party that Rudihagen represents, there's a different view of most questions. We have seen this to a considerable extent in recent times. The views of the Right in the past and those of the County Council are also well known. What the Prime Minister said about strengthening the county council as a regional actor is what underlies what is happening, with about a quarter of the total. $800 million. kr estimated. This means that the letter of assignment previously from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will not have the level of detail it had in the past, but it will be a municipal priority to give signals on how SND should handle these funds. In the case of the BU funds, there are not 60 posts that have been used to handle it, that is approximately. half. But it's the Storting that's going to decide how this is going to be done in the end. SND will probably be an interesting actor to do that job in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2051	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In its examination of the financial situation, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to carry out a review of the Aviation Administration’s economy and to assess the need for additional promises or other measures in 2002. The government was further asked to return to Stortinget with this in its own way as quickly as possible. How does the Council of State plan to follow up this Decision and can it ensure that no major changes are made to the airport service until the Stortinget has dealt with this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2060	In the treatment of Inner. S. No 119 for 2000-2001 from the Transport Committee on National Transport Plan 2002-2011, Stortinget concluded to assess the airport structure, inter alia. having regard to the significant reduction in travel time between several airports in recent years by new transport projects and offers. Following a mission from the Ministry, in the time of the government of Stoltenberg, the Swedish Aviation Agency has investigated and presented various aspects of its services on the regional airport network. Further operations and investments have been assessed on the basis of different standard requirements in the route offer and the technical/economic development options available for each aerodrome. Considerations of the regulatory requirements for design and equipment at aerodromes will be central. I intend to make proposals to the Stortinget about the airport structure in April. I further aim to present proposals for the revised budget of the Aviation Agency for 2002 in a proposal in May, in the context of the revised national budget. In view of the above, the size would be able to deal with the two submissions at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2073	I thank the Council of State for the answer – there was a little response to what I asked for, at the end. I did not ask about the aviation structure, but actually about the follow-up to a Roman language decision that was taken, linked to the financial situation in Stortinget. As the Council of State probably thinks, aviation was a rather central issue, and we – at least the Labour Party and several other parties – pointed to a number of problems that were already underway. Can I read in this answer – I would like to make it clear – that there are no restrictions or any special changes in the supply until Stortinget gets the case back? We had more recordings, we had this decision to come back about the Aviation Agency's situation, we had a plural remark that the Sola construction should go its way, and we had a working party remark about Oslo Airport, which I'm going to come back to on the next additional question. Can we now know that there will be no restrictions at various airports, no-night closures and different savings measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2078	As I said in my reply, I will come back to Stortinget with this matter in the revised budget, and then these different sides will be highlighted. The Aviation Agency is always responsible for its own economy, and to the extent that they have to deal with special situations, they have some freedom to do so. But the big, fundamental questions will be presented to the Stortinget, so that the Storting can deal properly with this. The airline's economy is important, and it takes me a lot these days. Therefore, it is also correct and important that we have this matter properly presented to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2083	I thank you again for your answer. In addition to being responsible for its own economy, the Swedish Aviation Agency manages an area with significant societal implications. That's why I care about this today. I note that the air traffic controller says that when it comes to the problems at Oslo Airport, it is a matter of pride, they have to deal with it if possible. And pride is a good thing if it doesn't become selfish, and if it doesn't go so far as to go far beyond the powers of an aviation director. How will the State Council ensure that the problems of the Gardermo will be solved, but that they will not be solved in a way that is out of control of the air supply in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2092	It is important that the Aviation Agency is able to perform its function in a rational and good manner and that their offer is in line with the need in relation to the air traffic there. Not least, the safety aspect is very important, and the Swedish Aviation Agency is very aware that as Minister of Transport I attach great importance to it. So the safety is most important in this situation where the economy is very tight, and that's the driving rules with which the Aviation Administration operates right now. And then I think it's important that the Storting should relate to the economic situation they're facing and that the representative here has.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2101	‘According to Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund, the smooth road is very poor. In some cases, for example: over Haukeli, the drivers must call the police in order to get the roads routed so that they can be safe. The reason for this is, among other things, The Road Service's own definitions of what is smooth. Will the Council of State ensure that roads that are smooth are scattered, and that drivers do not call the police to get the Road Service to pave the way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2108	The state road service aims at ensuring good and safe driving conditions at all times. But at the same time, it is clear that it will be a challenge to achieve this target of 100 pst. in our long-distance country with very changing weather conditions. Guidelines have been established for acceptable adhesion conditions to be used by all road offices. In addition, the power standard is differentiated according to the volume of traffic on the road. This applies, for example: the time between the discovery of smooth roads until the roads are paved. For the lowest traffic class, the action time is 4 hours. These guidelines were put into effect in 1999 and exacerbated previous requirements in the field of roads. On roads in and around our largest cities, it is planned that there will be as much barway as possible. These roads use salt that is released before snowfall and/or after temperature changes that may cause ice formation. Haukelifjell is bred to the strictest winter road standard. The action time here is 2 hours. It is regrettable if consumers are not satisfied with the service provided by Vegvesenet. At the same time, I would like to point out that every driver is responsible for ensuring the driving. In particular this applies to heavy-duty drivers, who shall have chain equipment available when they travel in areas where it may become slippery. Everyone must be prepared that the roads in Winter Norway can be slippery. This must affect the way you drive, and chains must be put on in time. I have recently taken the initiative towards the Road Directorate to step up my efforts towards foreign car combinations that are poorly protected for Norwegian winter conditions. I have been made aware of the fact that Norway's Lastebilgeier Association has addressed itself to the Road Directorate, where one addresses questions about the winter service. The Road Directorate will assess possible improvements with the background to this enquiry. I want to stay informed about the result of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2121	I thank you for your answer. It is good that you have taken care of this with foreign trailers, which are clearly a problem. However, when the Norwegian Lastebilgeier-Verbund claims that this year there has been worse winter maintenance than ever, it is a problem. Lack of bedding and poor wiring has made many drivers quite stated, and it is the drivers who are in many ways blamed for this. The Freight Car Association also claims that drivers are suspended with claims that they do not want to use chains, while the reality is that there is almost no room to put chains on, and that the places that are are not broken. The councils were within the defined standard for when it was slippery or not. When you get such information that it's very smooth, will the Council of State look at whether these definitions are properly designed, so it's really not too smooth when they hit here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2130	I have also heard these objections that have come from the LVG. They are invited to make a written enquiry to the Road Directorate about this situation that we have heard about. No enquiry has been made about it. However, it is important to clarify that road safety is to be at the high seat level. It is therefore important that the State Road Service follow the guidelines on how to treat smooth roadways. I trust that they do, and they know that it is road safety that is in focus, while I would like to stress that it is important to remember that anyone who travels on the roads, whether you are a lorry driver or other driver, has to take the precautions that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2137	Thanks for the answer. Last week the committee in Telemark was told about the problems there. There's 600 million missing. kr for maintenance on the roads. It was, of course, not only brewing and littering, but also poor asphalt. If there is money that is the problem of having safe roads, and for bedding and brewing to take place properly in order to keep the roads open, is it so to understand that the department will ensure that there will be enough money in the budgets to ensure that this can be properly maintained and security ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2146	Now, of course, it's always so that it's desirable to have much larger budgets in all fields, as well as in this area. The budgets are presented to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has the opportunity to make recordings in relation to it. However, I would also like to make it clear that we all have a responsibility in relation to security. As a road authority, we have a responsibility that we should follow up, just as truck owners and drivers have a responsibility, in terms of that side of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2154	‘Many of the government parties opted for better and cheaper public transport. The Sem Declaration also stresses the need to work for increased investment and reduced prices of public transport. From March 1st this year, Oslo Sporveier announces that they will once again increase the tariffs, but a majority of Oslo City Council will stop this rate increase. What has the Council of State intended to do in relation to the revised national budget to ensure that the necessary maintenance and necessary investments are carried out in Oslo Sporveier?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2161	On this issue, first of all, it would not be right for me to go into what should be included in the revised budget, but I feel that it is important to clarify some things in terms of public transport, and especially the big city issue. Giving people in Oslo and other metropolitan areas a better collective offer is one of my most important goals and one of my most important ambitions as Minister of Transport. Well-developed public transport provides less emissions and thus cleaner air. It also helps to reduce noise problems and ease the pressure on the areas. A good collective offer means less cows and better access to commercial and commercial transport and mitigates the need for new road projects. In the 2002 state budget, the co-operation government received 45 million EUA. kr extra for upgrading the network on the T-Bahn in Oslo. It is almost a doubling of the State contribution to the T-Bahn compared to the previous government proposal. In addition, we provide additional funds to reduce the cost of public transport for pupils and students from the fall of the year. I am also very concerned that big cities will have a better opportunity to influence the choice of transport solutions for their citizens. That is why I have invited the largest urban areas in the country to pilot projects where cities will be given greater overall responsibility for the transport sector, including in particular: opportunities to see financing, operation and maintenance in the context. This may mean, for example: road and collective action is seen more in context than is the case today. By allowing local authorities to see the use of the instrument in the context, the possibility for travellers to improve the supply quickly is strengthened. These are the first important steps to strengthen public transport in the Oslo area. My and the Government's goal is to improve capacity, increase frequency and reduce prices in the long term. Upgrading the T-Bahn will contribute to increased safety, punctuality and travel speed on the T-Bahn network. I assume that the funds granted by the State to the Oslo T-Bahn should be added, not as a substitute for the Oslo Municipality's support for the Oslo public transport. The ambitious plans made by the City Council in Oslo to invest heavily in upgrading the T-Bahn and reintroducing it are very positive, and also obliges the state to make further efforts in a fissile layer. As the representative Sørensen knows, the Government will aim to present its own big message on public transport now in spring. When it comes to further deepening this effort on public transport, I would like to refer to this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2176	In the fall, before the election, I spent six weeks at Karl Johan and tried to explain to people why during this election period I could not promise people cheaper public transport. After they had stood there with me about it, they went 20 meters away, to the Christian People's Party and to the Left, who promised them 25 pst. reduction. So this is the second time that the same people I talked to before the election are calling and asking why the prices are going up when the election campaign was about prices going down. In my opinion, this is a question that cultivates political contempt. I think it's time we started talking true about these questions. Nor can it be a shock to the Minister of Transport that the investment needs and maintenance needs in Oslo Sporveier are as high as they actually are, and that in the foreseeable future we cannot imagine a price reduction. But should we at least join together in a split layer and make sure that we do not experience further price increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2185	It's important to speak the truth, and it's also important that I get to stress that we're steering after the Sem statement. When it comes to speaking true, I want to point out that all parties are responsible for the situation as it is in Oslo. SV has also been in the City Council in Oslo, without any capacity, punctuality or prices developing better during that period. But it's irrelevant and not so interesting to look at now. What's interesting to look at is how we can continue to bet, because it's a aftermath, and there's a lot of maintenance needs that we have to address. The state is now willing to take its share and go in with great funds, and the Municipality of Oslo does the same. It's about time. The big bill we now get is because we've thought too little of the good collective solutions for Oslo in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2192	I fully agree that the split layer must consist of state, municipality and road users. But can we agree that in the future it should not be so that we shift further burdens on those who actually travel collectively in Oslo today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2202	What is important in relation to price in the first place is that they should receive discounts with the worst advice – at least a group of them. That's why we're busy with schooling and first-time students. I would also like to point out that there have been positive developments in the area of public transport in Oslo. There's been a growth in public transport, and that's good. This is also the case, according to Oslo Sporveier, that the average price of an entry on a means of transport is 10 kroner. That means that the average price is not that high. But it is still a goal for us to improve public transport – punctuality, reliability, frequency – and then, when we get it, price. It is not useful to have low prices if we do not have a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2212	‘Only the administration of the toll companies has cost the drivers a full 2 billion. kr since 1987, according to VG on 25 January 2002. In this period, the Council of State has some total social costs in terms of both toll management, interest expense, toll setting/decommissioning, paper processing [[municipalities, counties and countries]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2219	Funding for road development in Norway is primarily a State responsibility. However, the need is great, and toll financing has become an important additional funding for achieving projects faster than they would otherwise have been. I would like to stress that toll financing for road projects occurs on the basis of local initiatives, municipal and county decisions. There has been broad political agreement at national level to favour this form of funding because of the high and lasting added value that these road facilities have provided to people and businesses in the areas concerned. Different forms of road procurement are also not a strange phenomenon, but a widely used source of funding in many European countries. In the years 1995-2000, an average of 24 pst. toll companies’ revenues agreed to cover interest expenditure. Realising projects at an earlier date at the time of borrowing results in a socio-economic benefit that can be significant and that will be a counterpart to interest expense. Companies that do not finance the loan must make use of the direct cash flow from year to year and thus the installation will be set to operation later and will be completed later. Government appropriations also have an alternative use that can be expressed in terms of an interest rate charge. Analysis carried out shows that the costs of delays and queues in toll stations are small. In the major toll projects, such as: in Oslo, the proportion of pieces with electronic ticketing is high, so that there is no significant charge for the purchase. Toll projects without electronic ticketing usually have low traffic figures, so that the costs of loading and delay are also negligible here. Setting up a toll station costs between 2.5 and 3 million. kr for small toll stations and up to 20 mills. NOK too large. In the period 1994-2000, 10 p.m. toll revenue went to operation and administration. This proportion has shown a decreasing trend since the early 1990s. It is important that as much of the toll revenue as possible is used to finance the development projects in question. Inefficient collection in the form of high operational and administrative costs must be avoided. It is important in the years ahead to look at measures to further reduce costs, such as: making use of new technologies. I would also like to stress that in this context, account must be taken of the socio-economic costs of fiscal financing. Tax financing represents a loss of socio-economic efficiency. This is taken into account in the cost-benefit analysis by multiplying government funding by a factor of 1.2. It is important to bear this in mind when assessing toll financing collection costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2234	Here, there was a lot of talk and little reality in dollars. It is well known that there is a choice of both taxes and collection methods in relation to almost everything that has to do with the car. I will not mention all the fees, but there are annual taxes, petrol taxes, bomb charges, and then there is all the bureaucracy – because it has to be someone who takes this money and distribute it again. In the Sem Declaration, the government has also had the aim of reducing and streamlining the red tape so that we get less form fields. Does the Council of State think that this objective is in line with the method of performance and the bureaucracy we operate and create for exactly the car traffic and the cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2243	Yes, I believe that this is a fairly simple way to do it, and it then shows that the method of financing is, in isolation, at least as good as the method of tax financing. Then it is that it has never been the intention that purely fiscal charges should be earmarked. Designating car and car charges for transport, transport or, for that matter, the road sector has never been a policy we have pursued here in the country. That is why I believe that toll financing is a good complement to the ordinary state financing of road construction in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2250	I hear with amazement that the Council of State thinks this is a simple and good method of financing – and then I assume that this is also a question of toll financing. When the whole 24 pst. of this money goes elsewhere, I cannot understand that this is a good and simple way of financing – but it is to the best of luck that it is the Council of State’s view. But when the Council of State, as I understand it, will continue with this system, will she take care of it so that the drivers will get less taxes on other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2257	I think it is worth stressing that we see toll financing projects independently of tax policy in terms of car use and ownership. Of course, it's an interesting topic to discuss, but it won't be connected in principle with the individual toll projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2265	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Today, the division of responsibilities in the road sector is three-fold, between the state, the county and the municipalities. The Road Directorate has recently sent out hearing proposals for a two-way distribution of the road network in the state and municipal areas. The proposal means that the county roads are distributed between the state and the municipalities. Does the Government support the proposal of the Road Directorate for a Bisection of the Road Network?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2274	On behalf of the Ministry of Transport in September 2001, the Directorate of Roads started an investigation into principles for the classification of the road network. This is mentioned in St. prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. The Road Directorate’s report ‘New classification of public behalf’ was sent to the hearings, among others. to the counties and municipalities of the country, with a period of consultation on 15 April. This is the basis of principle for any two-way distribution of the road network. A discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of a two-part term is central to this review. It has also been natural to include an assessment of future backbone networks in road classification. The Government aims to present a fundamental review of the question of the bipartite distribution of the road network for the Spring 2002 Stortinget. This will be based on, for example: Investigation by the Directorate of Roads and consultation opinions received. The government will then announce its position in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2281	I thank you for your answer. Any division of the road network so that municipalities are given responsibility for 40-60 pst. of today's county roads, the municipalities assume a greater responsibility in the area of transport. After today's municipal division, we have a number of relatively small municipalities that will then be responsible for parts of the county roads separately. I would like to point out here that we have a large number of people on Stortinget who have also said that we should not change municipal divisions by coercion. Does the Council of State have problems with relatively small municipalities taking greater responsibility for parts of the road network? A two-tier distribution of the road network will also reduce county authorities’ responsibilities in the field of transport. What role has the Government intended to have in this area in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2288	The issues raised here are topical, and I think it is most natural to include them in the assessments that the Government will present to the Stortinget. It's hard for me to comment on these now, because it would be natural to take them into the submitted to the Storting. So I'm asking for an understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2293	I thank you for the answer, which the Council itself admitted is not particularly precise in relation to the question. We know that for the whole road network, we have a huge lag when it comes to maintenance. When it concerns the national road network, we know that it's between 8 and 10 billion per. today. The county road network is also lagging behind in the case of maintenance. At the same time, this road network is very important for large parts of business and for the local population around the country. In the event of municipalities taking over large parts of the county road network, new tasks will be assigned to municipalities requiring both economic resources and labour. Has Government Per. today think about how one will enable the municipalities to take over the responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2300	This will have to be mentioned in this message. I can't go into reality here and now, because there's a process going on. Now we've got input from the Road Directorate, and we're waiting for recordings in the hearing round. It will be natural for us and for me to go through them properly before we submit the message. I then assume that the problem that is raised here now, naturally will be included in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2308	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘From 1 April this year, the NSB will stop running freight trains between Oslo and Skien. This means that large quantities of goods that have been transported by train so far are now being moved on the road. This will have major negative consequences. For a company in Skien alone – Expert Norway AS – this will result in more than 2000 more car trains per year on the roads between Oslo and Skien. What will the Council of State do to stop this extremely unfortunate and environmentally destructive development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2317	Initially, I would like to point out that it is my job to ensure framework conditions in the transport sector that lead to a transport distribution that is at the best for society as a whole. In line with St.meld. No 48 for 2000-2001, On NSB BA’s activities 2001-2003, the NSB’s credit operations were transferred from 1 January 2002 to the company CargoNet AS, where NSB BA owns 55 pst. of the shares and the Swedish freight operator Green Cargo AB are the owner of 45 pst. of the shares. The company wants to invest in combined transport. CargoNet AS has launched an offer for combined transport between Alnabru in Oslo and Skien. These transports are based on volumes entering the seaway of the European terminal Brevik, and electrification and adaptation are now being carried out so that the terminal is operated directly by container trains. I have been informed that the company is working to find solutions for the various transport users based on container transport operated from the European Terminal. This is done in dialogue with transport users and different partners so that all transport can go in combination, which is more flexible and more effective for all parties than conventional rail in the old way – to put it that way. This change is expected to take place from 1 April of this year. The goal of CargoNet is to hijack new freight customers to the train – not only on the Oslo-Skien route, but also to provide ring-effects for other routes. CargoNet's experience is that when the train manages to hijack the goods when entering Norway, it is very likely that the further transport, which in this case will be from Alnabru, will also be by train. I think such an overall strategy is right to achieve the goal of getting more of the freight from road to road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2330	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the case of the form of transport of goods which is now disappearing, what is known as ‘cargo’ is what the Council of State also said, but it will continue to be offered a combustible. Enterprises and businesses that have facilitated and based on wagon loads no longer have the opportunity they have had to use this type of transport for their goods, and composting, as far as I have been informed, is a much worse option for these users. So the effect is that the quantities of goods are now moving on the road. I will take a little more about the example of the company Expert Norway, which has its central warehouse for white goods for the whole country lying in Skien. It has based most of its in-depth transport needs on wagon loads by rail. The company was established where it is located, precisely because of the simple availability of rail transport, and has built railway tracks all the way into the warehouse, so there are some forms of transhipment to the car. From 1 April onwards, a volume of goods of 80000 m3 per year on road transport will be subject to heavy loads on the road network of E18 and in the urban area of Grenland only from this one holding. [[The President clubs.]] The Council of State, from a party which has placed itself on the market as an environmental party, considers this to be compatible with the Sem Declaration, which states: ‘Cooperative governance will pursue offensive environmental and resource policies based on sustainable development objectives’?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2344	It is absolutely right that we want to have an offensive environmental policy, where the railway also plays a significant role. That's why it's important in the position I have, that I can make it possible to give it opportunities through the general framework conditions. I am very positive that CargoNet is committed to hijacking new freight customers. That's why I see with interest that they're interested in finding good solutions for those who have these needs in the area we're now talking about, and that these problems can be solved via the railway. Of course, that would be desirable from a larger perspective. At the same time, I have to give CargoNet the freedom to solve their special challenges as flexibly as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2351	Before the President gives the floor to Mr. Sigbjørn Molvik, the President reminds us that additional questions should be within one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2354	I'll try it, President. I thank you again for the answer. It is positive if it is so that CargoNet can offer a transport solution that allows, for example: the company I have mentioned can have its in-depth transport needs covered without being reloaded to the car – that is the big problem. And then to the framework conditions: it's like the NSB is paying the road tax to the Railway Agency to drive trains on the railway. Without such a charge, in my opinion, the NSB will be able to offer cheaper freight to business and thus provide a possible basis for maintaining vehicle load traffic on the Westfold road and other routes and possibly also increase it. The question will then be: Will the Council consider actively using the charging system to bring about more environmentally sound developments in the transport of goods in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2363	When separating the infrastructure from the transport that goes on top of the infrastructure, the intention was to pay for the use of the infrastructure in the same way as one does on the road. It'll give you a level playing field. In the case of rail, it is only for goods you pay today this infrastructure charge. It's not as high as someone would claim it should be, so in that way it's given more reasonable solutions than it could have been natural to give. I would like to stress that in the case of rail passenger transport, this is completely exempt from the road tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2368	Question 32 has been dealt with earlier, after question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2382	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2388	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Transport on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2391	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions, which I understand will be answered by the Minister of Transport: ‘The Drammen Home Guard hires 22 cars for its HV exercise. In the past, they have borrowed cars from other military departments. Now many military vehicles are either scrapped or sold, so that this is not possible in all cases. The rental of civil cars is certainly correct and practical, but the Council of State sees that an excessive reduction in the number of vehicles may weaken the defence's ability to carry out its tasks quickly, etc.?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2400	The Home Office is equipped with very few vehicles in its peace organisation. In all peacetime activities, except for the day-to-day routine service, the Home Security must hire or borrow vehicles. The increased need for vehicles in peacetime usually arises in the context of home protection exercises. This means that the increased vehicle demand in peacetime is relatively short-lived. Therefore, the investments that will be necessary in order to have a large permanent vehicle capacity in peacetime are difficult to defend. In the past, the Home Guard was able to borrow vehicles from the Army free of charge in connection with practice activities. The defence now emphasises that real operating costs must be made visible. This is carried out, inter alia: by the use of internal pricing by the Defence. That means the Home Guard has to pay the Army, or other defenses, to use their vehicles in practice. As a result, the Home Office has assessed different options to meet its needs for vehicles in practice. The protection of the home has come to the conclusion that it is most cost-effective to rent vehicles from civil car rental companies. Today's solution does not weaken the Home Guard's preparedness in a possible crisis or war situation. In such situations, the requirements of the Home Protection System for mobilising vehicles are covered by the application of the Act of Requisition. In the case of a specific emergency measure, the Defendant shall be empowered to put that law into effect. The defence is claimed as the civil vehicles needed in accordance with the war plans. The defence for the rest has essentially a very good coverage of its vehicle needs, even in the event of a crisis or war. A number of vehicles that would be relevant for use in such situations are now in stock. The costs of taking these vehicles into and out of storage for an HV exercise are significant. Now that internal pricing has increasingly been used in the Defence, Home Protection will be charged to these costs if they want to use the vehicles in their exercises. It is therefore more cost-effective to rent vehicles from civil companies. Accordingly, the defence has taken care of its need for access to vehicles where this is necessary in order to carry out its tasks rapidly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2415	I thank you for a good and satisfying answer, which gives a good understanding of why you do what you do. But as an old military, I still think it should be military cars, military colors. When you look at all the scrapping of military vehicles – I can only mention the BV 202, 2 200 vehicles are scrapped, we have Landrovers, Volvo jeeps, various trucks, etc. which is sold in an auction at a reasonable price – I think some of these vehicles could have been left to HV districts. Or you could do as you did before, that commanders in the Home Guard got the opportunity to buy thoughtful – if you can use that word in a positive sense – military vehicles for a cheap sum against the fact that the vehicles were going to be on HV exercises for so many years to come, i.e. that the individual soldier/officer took care of the car and spent it on exercises. Could this be something to think about further, so that we get green colors on the vehicles that are involved in an exercise? I think it'll mean a lot to the civilian population that you see that there are military exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2422	It is little time for the Home Guard to take over old vehicles like the Army scraps. Although in such a case the acquisition of the vehicles would be cost-effective, such a solution would result in high operating costs per year. vehicle of the Home Protection System, because the maintenance mass becomes small. This would run counter to the defence objective of controlling and reducing operational expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2427	I thank you once again for your answer. I understand that HV as an organisation – military unit – is not interested in this. But then I go back to what I was thinking about in my previous supplementary question, whether HV soldiers/commissioners can take over drafts – still in a positive sense – military vehicles for a very cheap sum compared to being maintained by the individual, that it is charged to the individual's own budget, not the Defense, and thus the vehicles can be used on HV exercises, as in this case. I understand that the defense will save money, and I understand that you should do this efficiently and easily, and that renting cars in many cases can be very practical – and economical as well. But I still think that on a military exercise there should be military vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2434	The effectiveness of defence is important in peacetime as well as in crisis and war, and that is the framework around the topic we are talking about now. With regard to the purchase of the end-of-life vehicles, there is a point of view that I would like to take with me to the Minister of Defence as a contribution, which I do not want to comment further. But I'll take it with me to the Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2439	Question 35 has been dealt with earlier, after question 16. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-20.ana.ud2346e2452	There is no record.
