ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e30	The representative of Ursula Evje, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e33	An overall committee supports Section 1-1 of the Biotechnology Act, which states: ‘The aim of this Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical standards enshrined in our Western cultural heritage.» This purpose paragraph is and shall be a general guideline also in the evaluation of the applicable law. The Committee points out that developments in biotechnology are constantly facing new ethical challenges. Technical progress and new discoveries related to the human heritage contribute to creating expectations about the future health of conditions and diseases that can currently be severely disabled or which can directly affect the life prospects of individuals. Different legislation in comparable countries cannot and should not be an argument for liberalisation or tightening up Norwegian legislation. There has to be our own passed value choices that form the basis of our laws. The centre party is clear that the precautionary principle is important in the field of genetic and biotechnology. The consequences must be satisfactorily identified and clarified before techniques and treatments are made available to the general public. In the case of stem cell research, the majority are opposed to research on fertilised eggs. But the source of stem cell research can also be cells from born individuals, so-called adult stem cells. The centre party and the majority refer to the promising results of research in this area and that Norwegian researchers have recently gained international recognition for research in adult stem cells. We want this research to be prioritised, and that we can make a strong contribution here in an international perspective by being at the forefront in this area. Artificial fertilisation should be described as assisted fertilisation, as the rapporteur also pointed out. This area has been regulated since 1987 in Norway. The use of microinjection, the so-called ICSI method, possibly combined with the collection of sperm from testicles and bit testicles, gives some uncertainty as to whether the method can increase the frequency of malformations compared to traditional in vitro fertilisation. The majority therefore agree with the Government that the approval of the ICSI methodology is still being made temporarily until more extensive studies and research results on the medical consequences of the method are available. But it is to hope that research can quickly demonstrate that this method is sound, so that it can provide more general opportunities for the childless. The centre party and the majority favour a continued ban on research on fertilised eggs, but consider it unreasonable that there should be a similar prohibition in the case of unfertilised eggs. An overall committee states that it shall be illegal to extract eggs only for the purpose of fertilising them for research purposes. The centre batch supports a modification of current legislation as regards the storage time of fertilised eggs. We believe that this time can be extended from three to five years, as this is now fully medically-technologically sound. This will give childless persons more possibilities of assisted fertilisation over a longer period of time without the need to take out and fertilise new eggs. However, a majority, all except the Advance Party, believe that the conditions for assisted fertilisation must be satisfied before each conception attempt is carried out. The center party believes it should be every human right to be able to get to know his biological origin. That is why we are pleased that there is now a broad majority, all of whom, except for the Workers' Party, support the abolition of the anonymity of sperm donors. This may mean that fewer sperm donors will be available. It is therefore important that the Government facilitate the establishment of semen banks, and cooperation with countries that have legislation in line with us in the field of semen donation. The centre batch supports the possibility of autotransplanting of organs producing germ cells so that the re-entry of ovaries is possible for women who have to ensure this in relation to serious disease and disease treatment, in order to ensure the future possibility of pregnancy. On the other hand, we do not support the possibility of transplanting ovaries and tissues from one woman to another to relieve childlessness. The majority believe that an opening for preimplantation diagnostics could involve emphasising the special properties of the foetus so that unacceptable sorting practices can be achieved. It is also important to note that, among other things. Norway’s Handicap Association opposes preimplantation diagnostics based on the same argument. The views of the majority and the Central Party in the field of foetal diagnostics are broadly in line with those of the Government. [[The President clubs.]] There is reason to stress that these proposals do not constitute an obstacle to ultrasound, diagnostics or treatment, but are a strengthening of the qualitative aspects of such studies. I would rather come back later with a few more moments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e74	Yeah, if that's absolutely necessary, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e77	Research is, and must be, carried out within the scope of the Biotechnology Act. Then one might ask what biotechnology can mean for future patient treatment. The answer – and the problem – is that we do not know that in concrete terms. But what we know is that it's only through continuous research and knowledge development that we can move on to solving many of the problems we're facing in the health sector. It's e.g. hopes that research on stem cells can provide new opportunities for the treatment of diseases that are currently incurable, e.g. Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease and other diseases caused by brain damage, possibilities for repairing damaged tissues in e.g. the heart and culture of insulin-producing cells that can be transplanted to diabetic patients. Today's patient treatment is based on previous research, and the research of the future will be even more dependent on the research we do now, and on what we do in the future. And above all, our ability to avoid or prevent disease will depend on biotechnological research. With an ageing population, we will face new health challenges. Their management will require the development of new knowledge. It can only happen through research. In this respect, we can say that research means everything to the patient treatment of the future and to the ability to prevent. Then the question is whether we in Norway can avoid the difficult balancing problems research in these areas confronts us, simply by not researching, perhaps concentrating our research on areas that are not affected by such difficulties. Then we can import the research results of other countries. I believe this is wrong for several reasons. Firstly, we should be aware that the same balancing problems that we are struggling with are also central in all other countries. It is not that we have any higher ethical standards in Norway. Secondly, it is not easy to be an importer of research results if you do not have research competence in this area itself. The assessment and clinical application of new technologies and knowledge requires own knowledge. Thirdly, I think it's a very doubtful ethics if we say we don't want to participate in the research, but we want to share in the results. And if you don't want to take advantage of the results, I find it very difficult to say that the Norwegian population is not going to get involved in new medicines and treatments. It is a common problem that we are afraid that research results may be abused, cf. cloning. This applies to almost all research. For example, terrorist bombs are made of fertilizer and diesel! If, in certain areas, we decide not to believe in our ability to democratically control the exploitation of research results, I think we are playing totally unsuccessfully. This research is becoming increasingly international. It is through participation in international projects that we can exploit our potential. And if we're going to participate, we also need something to offer. As mentioned, I also believe that we will reduce our ability to select and apply the results of research from other countries if we do not have a corresponding competence ourselves. We should also bear in mind that basic training itself in e.g.: Medicine is highly research-dependent. If we don't have research in an area, we can't expect to have any good education in this area either. I think that such a development over time will also weaken people's confidence in our own health care system. People will seek treatment in other countries because they believe that in Norway we do not have the skills or treatment options available in other countries. Finally, there are probably a lot of people who think that this can't mean that much. We're talking about marginal outcomes in some small areas where we might choose to stay out of it. Isolatedly, that's right. However, in relation to the challenges facing us in the health sector, biotechnology research is not a small area. It may be the most important thing for the prevention and control of some of the most common public diseases. And in this context, I believe that it is fundamentally and ethically very unfortunate that we should put more stringent restrictions on research in Norway than what is done in the countries with which we have extensive cooperation in all other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e94	A child is born. The happy mother-in-law rejoices with the legal father. The biological mother died three years ago, and the biological father knows no one who is. This is not the beginning of a science fiction, but a situation that is not unique in many countries, and which we could have got in Norway if not a majority of the social committee had put down their feet. By continuing to say no to both egg donation and ovarian transplantation, and by canceling the sperm donor's anonymity, a child will constantly know who its biological parents are. And the biological mother will still be one person – not one genetic and one that has brought the child forward. As one who owns the majority of the population who don't have problems having their own children, I'm very humble to that grief and despair couples feel when they can't have children. Fortunately, today we have many tools and methods that help a lot. But wanting to help a woman bear a child is not a goal that sanctifies all means. By allowing egg donation, you break one of the so far most unbreakable bonds: that mother is a mother, and that the biological bond between the woman who gives birth, and the child, is indisputable. What right do we have to remove this tape? And what right do we have to deprive future children of the basic truth that the woman who has brought the child is also its genetic mother? Nor can I see any reason to introduce egg donation in that a woman herself should bring forth a child. For the child does not become more her own than by e.g. adoption of a child. And then I think the price you pay for a woman carrying a child is very high, that you break the basic biological bond between mother and child. I also do not understand the argument about equality between men and women, which the Workers' Party draws up in its justification for equality between sperm and egg donation. That's not all that can, or should, be equalized. Carrying out and giving birth to a child has always been the task of the woman. Let's hope that's still going to be like this. There has never been any doubt about who is the biological mother, while the biological father has not always been as well known – perhaps even completely unknown. So sperm donation is going to be something completely different. But also in this area, the entire committee, with the exception of the Workers' Party, has realized that the time has come for a child to be assured of knowing who the biological father is. It is not only the desire to have children challenging the ethical boundaries of society, it also makes the continuous development of medical-technical equipment in relation to the kind of children to be produced. Fortunately, most of us will take a great deal of distance from producing ‘design babies’, while there is a broad acceptance that we should be able to choose if we want to bring a child or not if we are talking about some serious deviations. Nevertheless, there should not be so much imagination to understand that these are limits that some will constantly be tried on. In a situation where the woman or a couple will increasingly receive more detailed information about the condition of the foetus at an increasingly early stage, it is obvious that we need strict procedures for the use of foetal diagnostics. It is necessary to ensure that the health professionals responsible for carrying out the studies are well qualified and that any deviations are followed up in the best possible manner. This is not least important for the couple to feel safe throughout the process and for the woman to make the right choice if serious deviations are detected. In this context, there is a minority in this room who are trying to attribute a different attitude to ultrasonic studies to the Government and Government parties than is the case. The government has not in any way proposed that the woman should not take part in the knowledge gained by health professionals during an ultrasound examination carried out as part of the pregnancy control. This is of course a right and is also governed by the Patient Rights Act. However, the majority states that if, in the course of such ultrasound examination, there is evidence of anomalies, the woman shall be referred to a hospital with sufficient competence. This will ensure professional information and guidance for the woman and will allow for either more advanced ultrasonic studies or foetal water tests. Since ultrasonic studies are increasing, the majority would like it to be carried out only in institutions approved by the Directorate of Social and Health to be covered by the provisions of the Biotechnology Act if the study is to be used to detect or confirm the suspicion of non-conformity. This will give the woman the best offer. This will reduce the risk of decisions made on the wrong basis. It will also help to prevent us from moving towards a sorting of foetuses on the basis of, for example: gender or physical anomalies — a sorting society from which most people take a great deal of distance. This is particularly important for studies conducted before the 12th week of pregnancy, which is the limit of self-determined abortion. Setting limits to preventing abortion based on child characteristics is not an attack on the woman's right to self-determined abortion, which is a right to decide whether to want children, but not what kind of children you want. The minority, therefore, by attacking the majority, is at the same time failing to address the challenges facing us in the face of ever-increasing ultrasonic studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e135	The treatment of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act by large reduces important markers. The position of the Social Committee is based on a policy that is in favour of medical progress, but at the same time sets clear boundaries where research is at risk of violating human dignity. The starting point for us to have a biotechnology law at all is that these issues are too important to be left to professionals alone. It's about ethics, about society and about the position of human dignity. It is a clear social responsibility to include frameworks and guidelines in legislation. The setting shows that the government parties, together with the SV and the Central Party, are creating a new policy in important areas. This applies, inter alia, to: in view of foetal diagnosis, artificial fertilisation and research on germinal human life. The majority clearly mark the unacceptable in that human life is made a clean means and not a goal in itself. I note with satisfaction that the Government in this important matter has the approval of the majority of the committee on all important points. In the Communication, the Government proposes the changes it considers to have underlined the need for the outcome of the evaluation. The government has sought to strike a good balance between exploiting the potential of technology in research and medical treatment and the consideration of human integrity and dignity. Biotechnological knowledge and its practical use in healthcare have been an important part of the innovations in modern medicine. We have gained extensive knowledge of the diagnosis of diseases and of the risks of future disease, treatment and prevention. Developments are revolutionary in many ways, while many issues remain unresolved in understanding basic biological and genetic processes relevant to development, treatment and prevention. Therefore, it is important to focus on research in this field. It is totally wrong when the debate today has been made so that the Government and the majority of the population are almost anti-research and anxious for new knowledge. I have to remind you that this year it is actually worth 100 million. on a comprehensive research programme in the field of genetic research, in which part of the funds will also be devoted to research on ethical issues. Extensive and resource-intensive research is needed to make use of the new knowledge for the benefit of the individual. However, it is important to ensure that research is carried out within an ethically acceptable framework. It's not that the good intention can sanctify any means. This area has been the subject of a wider societal debate than many other areas, as the use of technology raises a number of difficult ethical issues. Like all new technologies, this technology can also be abused. One of the aims of the law is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is done in the best interests of all in a society, and here it is a potential for the development of new class divisions in society that we should all be concerned with combating. Foetal diagnosis is defined by law as an examination of the foetus or pregnant woman in order to detect or exclude genetic disease or developmental abnormalities in the foetus. The extent to which pregnancy should be offered foetal diagnostics may raise the ethically most difficult questions in the Biotechnology Act. This is especially where we meet the dilemma of what kind of society we want, and the place of society for and accepted for people who are different. Foetal diagnostics is good in helping to treat serious diseases in the foetus, but it is essential to ensure that the framework for the establishment is such that it cannot develop a practice that could threaten respect for human equivalency. It is therefore with satisfaction that I note that a majority in the Committee agrees with the Government on this important point. Therefore, foetal diagnostics shall be a tool when there is a specific risk of serious illness or developmental abnormalities. In this debate, representatives of the Workers' Party have sought to create the impression that the message and the majority are unclear as to the treatment of ultrasound. There's no basis for that. The offer of routine ultrasound given to all pregnant women during the 18th week as part of the regular pregnancy control shall and should be maintained. Similarly, of course, ultrasound examinations must be carried out if there are medical reasons for such examination. Healthcare professionals shall provide the patient with information available, as the patient is entitled under the Patient Rights Act. There are no changes here. Although ultrasonic studies are defined as post-statutory foetal diagnostics, at present only the rules on information and guidance apply to this type of study. No rules have been laid down as to when ultrasonic studies may be offered to pregnant women, nor is ultrasonic studies subject to the rules of the Biotechnology Act on Authorisation and Control. When ultrasound is used as foetal diagnostics, the offer should be subject to legal provisions on approval and control. That's where the message and the majority add up to a change. I am otherwise very critical for the routine use of ultrasound examinations early in pregnancy if it does not occur on medical indications. To the extent that the purpose of the study is to detect or exclude serious heritable diseases or developmental abnormalities, the ultrasonic study should be subject to the provisions of the Biotechnology Act irrespective of the stage of the study in pregnancy. There is reason to stress, as the Social Committee has done, that the development of ultrasonic techniques today makes it possible to diagnose more diseases and malformations than in the past. It is also possible to carry out studies with greater precision than before and diagnosis can be made at an earlier stage of pregnancy than before. It is this that makes us, as politically responsible – and the Stortinge, as legislators – have to deal with the frameworks of development. The quality of ultrasonic studies also depends on the person conducting the study. The knowledge and experience of the person is of great importance. This latter is important when ultrasound testing is carried out in order to diagnose the foetus. It has therefore been important for the Government to facilitate such investigations by approved institutions, as there is a risk of both false positive and negative findings in such diagnostics. The identification of human genetic material and the ongoing research on the relationship between genes and disease development continue to detect new genes associated with disease. Gradually, it is also likely to be possible to test for the risk of several of the major public diseases where the risk of developing a disease is not necessarily linked to a single gene, but where several genes work together and where environmental factors also play a role. Such tests will not be possible only on born persons. Gradually, it is likely that one will be able to detect the disposal of the same genetic diseases in early life. It could have an impact on the extent of foetal diagnostics. It is currently possible, through an analysis of a regular blood test, to investigate whether a pregnant woman is at risk of giving birth to children, for example. with Down's syndrome. Such screening of substances in the blood of the woman could indicate whether he is in a risk group and could provide a basis for possibly further follow-up and confirmation or confirmation of this with more precise foetal diagnostics, such as: fetal water test. This type of survey is currently being carried out in some countries, and there is reason to believe that there could be an increasing pressure for such surveys to be carried out in Norway as well. There are already some requests for this. Therefore, in the Government’s view, it is important to have control of the methods used for diagnostics, as proposed. On this basis, the government believes that guidance and information to the woman and the couple before fetal diagnosis is important. In particular, they should be provided with information on the study itself — and on what information the study can provide — on the uncertainty related to the outcome, and for those who have received indications that the child may be ill or disabled, it is essential that they are provided with good information on the disease in question, on their rights, on what assistance measures the society can offer, etc. A comprehensive social committee supports such a legal right to information. Preimplantation diagnostics also raise major ethical dilemmas, as this method involves genetic testing on a fertilised egg before it is introduced into the uterus. This method has not been used in Norway because in practice such activities require access to research on fertilised eggs. The government is very critical of this type of diagnostics, among other things. due to the ethically problematic sorting of fertilised eggs by the method. That is why we have proposed to maintain current regulation in the Biotechnology Act. I have noticed that the majority is asking the Government in the notified proposition to consider whether the chapter can be replaced by a ban on such diagnostics, and I will make such an assessment. One of the methods used for artificial fertilisation is the insemination of semen from a sperm donor. Under current legislation, health professionals are obliged to keep the identity of the sperm donor secret. The Government has proposed to abolish the anonymity of the sperm donor, since the possibility of getting to know its origin is a fundamental right. The decision on this position has been to care for the best interests of the child. Strengthening the child’s rights is important. Children born by means of donated semen should be able to gain knowledge of their biological origin in line with those adopted. It should be up to the child to decide for himself whether or not to provide information. For some people, this kind of information might not be interesting, while others will experience it as very important. On the part of society, as I see it, a system should be set up to enable children to find out who their biological father is. The experience of Sweden, which lifted the sperm donor’s anonymity as early as 1985, shows that they have been able to maintain the offer of artificial fertilisation despite the lifting of anonymity. Statements in the debate today that the opposite will happen here in the country if we follow the example of the Swedes, there is no evidence for this. In conclusion, let me say that I have noticed the majority of the views of the Social Committee on the provision that regulates outreach genetic activity, and that has worked from 2000, where today, under certain conditions, access is granted to treating physicians to seek out the relatives of the patient with a view to providing genetic guidance, studies and possible treatment. The majority ask the Government to reconsider this paragraph in the announced odelstingsproposition on changes in the Biotechnology Act. That will be done, and the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss it in conjunction with the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e175	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e178	The Council of State emphasises that the choices we face in the medical use of genetic engineering are complex and difficult, and that there can hardly be any simple black and white response. Therefore, it does not matter how you reach your conclusions. The choices must be made in transparency and dialogue based on widely accepted values and rules of the game. I am therefore concerned about the way in which views are presented in the communication that the Council of State is now presenting. Controversial views are presented as the position of the Biotechnology Study, where they are shared by the Council of State, without telling that the Biotechnology Study in its view is shared in the middle. Where the Council of State does not share the views of the majority, the notification relates only to the minority in the Biotechnology Study. But the real violation occurs when you say on page 26 of the Communication that you join the Biotechnology Study Opinions on Egg Donation. This is done by quoting one point in a longer pro a counter-argument, without including the initial words of this point: ‘On the other hand...’. It's taken out, and it's almost so that you can feel that you're moving at the limit of quote cheating. I just want to ask the Council of State whether he will facilitate in the further work that all views are expressed in the dialogue that needs to come, which really requires... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e189	The President will ask the representative to respect the speaking time, especially when it starts to go quite far beyond the time frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e192	I agree with the representative Hildeng that the debate on these questions should be marked by the fact that not all questions can be answered in simple terms. I certainly believe that the message presented by the Government bears the mark of such humility. It will always be such that issues that are difficult and sensitive can be presented even more balanced from a single point of view than from a different point of view. However, I would clearly like to distance myself from Mr Hildeng's suggestion that the Ministry and the Minister of Health in this communication should have been guilty of making a sign of the diversity of opinions underlying this evaluation. It is also the case that all these opinions have been made available to the Committee at its examination. I think the debate is well served that we do not correct such accusations against each other, because I think an open dialogue is absolutely necessary, not just here in this Chamber and in this matter, but in this field in general in the future. I will try to contribute to that, and then there is no reason why anyone's arguments should be tried to fade down or hidden – on the contrary. The arguments put forward in this case and in this kind of case, must withstand being broken against each other in an open discussion. That's what I want to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e202	The Minister of Health gave a visit to the Workers' Party in his statement on our emphasis on the importance of research. When I heard the intervention from the Minister of Health, I became partly in doubt about what the Minister of Health really thinks about the importance of research for a better health care system in Norway. The purpose section of the Biotechnology Act, § 1-1, states in the first sentence: ‘The aim of this Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all.’ And then it goes on to say in the paragraph what principles are to be applied, as the government Gro Harlem Brundtland suggested, and as the Stortinget decided. As I mentioned in my post, there are many serious diseases that seem to be incurable, but that might find their solution to treatment in just research in this area. Is it, then, that the Minister of Health believes that Norway should not be involved in this research with full gravity, when one might know the hope of new research and expanded knowledge? Is it not true that there must be a right for Norwegian patients to participate in new medical research and new therapeutic knowledge based on Norwegian research?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e223	I think the purpose of the law actually draws up these premises quite clearly. It is important that medical innovation comes to the fore of individuals and society, but it is necessary to set limits. That is why the Labour Party's government in its time proposed a biotechnology law. We didn't have it until it came in 1994. That is why, as early as 1987, the majority of the Stortinges proposed a ban on research into fertilised eggs. You can almost believe, by listening to the debate here today, that this is something Health Minister Højbräten has made up. But it has actually been Storting's policy since 1987. It is in the view that I have expressed when it comes to research on fertilized eggs and therapeutic cloning, that we are going to research to find solutions to these mysteries that the representative Kristoffersen pointed to. We're going to put resources on it, and we're going to do it. We're going to do it in Norway. But we don't have to do it in all areas, and we shouldn't do it when research violates human dignity, as you do it by researching a germinal human life. It has been the view of the majority since 1987. It's still my view, and it's also the government's view of therapeutic cloning. But we will actively seek other ways to the same goal, where we do not have the same ethical concerns, namely research on adult stem cells, which shows promising possibilities. It will be our alternative strategy for the same goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e228	A majority in the vote – among others government parties and the Socialist Left Party – add up to a rematch. 6 of the Biotechnology Act. It deals with outreach genetic guidance to the close family of a patient, where a genetic examination has shown that there may be a risk of heritable disease in the immediate family. In the context of the 1999 legislative amendment, Odelstinget decided that the experience of the new paragraph should be evaluated and presented to the Stortinget in 2005. My question to the Minister of Health is: Does the Minister of Health now mean – after this discussion of the communication in Stortinget – to present a bill that changes the cap. 6, and make a ban on genetic guidance, as previously agreed by Odelstinget? If so, I would strongly recommend to the Minister of Health that this amendment be pending until the evaluation has been carried out. There is a significant minority in the Storting relative to those who passed the law in their time, and it is not very good to change the laws in such cases as the majority of the population changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e235	It'll be up to the Biggest if it will change the laws as the majority of the Biggest changes. I don't want to, like, put myself into it. But it's true, as Alvheim's representative says, that the rule that we've taken up here is relatively fresh. There is relatively little experience in its practice. That is why the Government of the message has not provided any evaluation of it at this time. The majority of the Committee requests that the issue be assessed in the context of the proposal we have announced. When the majority of the committee so requests, I find it natural to comply with that request.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e242	I note that part of the debate today has been on the use of ultrasound as a foetal diagnostic tool and criticism from the minority related to its regulation. At the same time, I register that in connection with St.meld. No 25 for 1992-93, presented by the government of Harlem Brundtland, a new law and proposal to regulate foetal diagnostics was announced. The message reads: «Footer diagnostics affects sensitive areas where it can be easily played on unfounded fears, notions and prejudices. The development of such offers should therefore take place within a public health service and not be part of a private market-driven offer. Foetal diagnosis with a view to detecting genetic disease or developmental abnormalities in the foetus shall take place only at institutions approved by the Ministry of Social Affairs.’ Ultrasound was problematized in the message at that time. Among other things, a second opinion was recommended at that time, but at that time it did not address ultrasound in relation to the embryo diagnosis itself. But there was a question mark in regulating the use of ultrasound. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether he sees what the Government is doing now, as a different approach to the Harlem Brundtland government at the time in 1993, and that one sort of leaves one track and goes into another. Or does the Council of State see this in the extension of a law on foetal diagnostics, and that it is then necessary to look at the various aids in use and whether they should also be covered by the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e254	Let me first – since I did not get it in my main post – praise the case rapporteur for the job he has done with this demanding matter. As far as the question is concerned, I see that the whole starting point for us to have a biotechnology law in our time was a desire from the entire political environment to put a framework around a development that was supposed to end, but which was not known where to end – a desire to set a legislative and social framework for development, which could ensure that it became a good thing for society as a whole and did not lead to a sorting society and a society in which respect for human dignity was violated. So it's that way that evolution is dynamic. Medical and technological developments are very rapid, and therefore the Stortinget assumed that after five years it would be necessary to evaluate the law and adjust it in relation to the dynamic development of medical, professional and technological developments. That's the track we're now following. Ultrasound is an excellent example. Ultrasound 15 years ago and ultrasound today are two different things. The law is the same, and the fact that one then looks at developments and assesses whether the law and its application are good enough in relation to such developments is, in my view, in line with the best intentions and with the objective paragraph of the Biotechnology Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e263	The Council of State was involved in several areas in which the majority has pointed out things and made calls that should be followed up. However, in the field of foetal diagnostics, there is one area in which the Council of State did not comment on such a majority comment calling on the Ministry and the Government. This does not apply to ultrasound, but to foetal water diagnostics. We're referring to the fact that today there are six institutions that are approved for performing foetal water diagnostics. The majority ask the Government to facilitate the expansion of the number of institutions so that the offer will be well available to women throughout the country, while maintaining the offer in a proper manner – and I agree with the Council of State that, among other things, this area must be within public control and in the performance of public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e270	I agree with the majority that the provision of foetal diagnostics should be available throughout the country and that it should be available with sufficient quality throughout the country. It is therefore necessary to approve institutions that are required to carry out foetal diagnostics, and it is therefore necessary to supervise and control those institutions. I have noticed the view of the majority of the committee that the number of institutions and the geographical distribution of institutions that are today seem to be somewhat scarce in relation to such an objective, and I will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e277	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e280	The Labour Party, together with the majority of the Social Committee, has been engaged by the involuntary childless. That's what we're going to do. The working party wishes to facilitate as much as possible for the involuntary childless as possible. Int. S. No 238 on the evaluation of the law on the medical use of biotechnology allows us to use the methods that are possible in other countries to help the childless. We therefore separate layers by the majority of the committee in the area of egg donation. So last week we were able to read about a 58-year-old woman who had become pregnant at egg donation in the United States. That's not exactly how we want it to be. Therefore, we also have an upper age limit in Norway for artificial fertilisation. However, this provides a good example of the fact that national restrictions that are perceived to be unfair can undermine existing laws, by involuntary childless leaving and receiving treatment in other countries. Egg donation is a recognised treatment for the childless and is permitted in most European countries. The working party believes this to help women who are not themselves fertilising or who are carriers of serious heritable diseases. We believe that sperm donation and egg donation should be equated. That is why, through our comments, we have made this view known. We also refer to the Biotechnology Study Opinion to the Department dated 31 May 1999. I allow myself a quote: «Eggdonation removes the present gender injustice in artificial fertilisation.» And it goes on to say: ‘In addition to giving the couple a genetic child to one partner, egg donation would allow the couple to carry out a pregnancy which could lead to a stronger relationship with the child.’ With this in mind, in the Workers' Party, it makes little sense that conception outside the body can only happen with the couple's own eggs and sperm cells, when by conception by artificial insemination one can use donor semen. We cannot see that this discrimination can be justified on medical grounds. Nor can we see that this does not take the child into account, as we believe that the child's situation will be the same, both legally, socially and biologically. The majority of the Committee would like us to continue to import semen from Denmark, where the semen donor is entitled to be anonymous, but concludes that the anonymity of the sperm donor should be lifted. There's hardly any logic in it. The working party therefore still believes what we meant in the setting up of the Biotechnology Act, Innst. O. No 67 for 1993-94, where the majority consisted of the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. At that time the majority showed that it is best for the child if the sperm donor remains anonymous and that it is the social danger that has all duties and rights in relation to the child. Donor has had no desire to have this child, but has wanted to help the childless couple. It is therefore still not natural for us to compare the anonymous sperm donor with biological parents. In the Labour Party, we believe that these points of view must still apply. The entire Committee recognises the potential of stem cell research and that this has created expectations for the recovery of serious diseases. But the majority do not want to regulate so that this can be applied in full. There is reason to stress that on the part of the Workers' Party, the central objective is to research in stem cells the cure of disease. We are aware that there is still a great deal of knowledge about stem cells. Therefore, we are very concerned about the importance of generating new knowledge, as basic research in this area contributes to later clinical use of technology. We are concerned that Norway should slow down in relation to internationally important knowledge. Norway should be involved in the development of knowledge, otherwise it would be unreasonable for us to apply the successive innovations. Because we're forced to make use of them, it's going to be a demand from the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e314	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e318	In fact, the management of the biotechnology notification that we are involved in today is a milestone for Norwegian biotechnology policy. It doesn't show at least the large width that's behind the multiples. There is an upgrade of human dignity that has been achieved, and this result could actually contribute to the formation of an international standard of lawmaking and ethical restraint in biotechnology. That's what I thought, both for the future and for the future. The Government Party, SV and the Center Party are united on perhaps the most important matter of this period when it applies to future human beings. And there's good reason to give great praise, as others have done, to the case-speaker Olav Gunnar Ballo, who has been so good in the case-law that a layman has understood things that he didn't understand in the message. The Labour Party and the Progress Party are in a liberal fraction. They have actually not taken the results of modern research in Norway inwards. Asmund Kristoffersen and Gunn Olsen's concerns in this area show that they cannot have come up with the results of the University of Oslo on adult stem cells. There's a research that the majority wants to bet on. It is a major step forward in the ethical assessment that one still maintains the ban on researching fertilised eggs. What will the minority do when technology has come so far that one has no eggs left by artificial fertilization? What about their research? We want to avoid the sorting society. It's also interesting what the Workers' Party says on page 11 of the setting, when this is true of anonymity. They say: «These members are of the opinion that the long practice of anonymous sperm donors has not led to problems for those born by this method.» A former Minister of Health says in our country today: "This has been a dilemma for me for a long time." He also says: 'In many conversations it turns out that our coming fellow human beings themselves are not coming up. They must have help from us here and now to speak up." And on the other hand, ‘If the child wants to know, in good and bad, who the biological danger is, I don’t know who of us has the legitimate right to deny them this.’ This legitimate right will continue to be claimed by the Labour Party, as they oppose the otherwise agreed committee in this area. It was to hope that also the Labour Party, like its former Health Minister, would reflect on such a matter. And it takes some time for the new laws to come, so much can happen before that time. I would like to point out that the representative Gunn Olsen was concerned that the plurality will focus on the import of semen from Denmark. I can't believe it's in the message. On the other hand, it says that one will look for the creation of a Norwegian semen bank when one has anonymity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e354	It's with interest I've read the attitude of the Social Committee. When the Christian People's Party will so strongly stress human dignity in dealing with modern medicine and biotechnology, it is precisely because we often face difficult ethical challenges here. Therefore, we need to stress that everyone has the same human dignity, and that we must not violate it by differentiation of the self-esteem of each person. In the Christian People's Party, we are particularly pleased that there is a majority to give the child the right to know their biological origin. We've been working on this for a long time. It is not up to politicians to prevent children from knowing their origins, which will mean the continuation of the anonymity of the sperm donor. I heard the representative Hildeng pointed out that identity is created through social relations, not through inheritance. However, there are not many children and adoptive children who are concerned about their biological origins, and I want to take their commitment seriously. Throughout history, relatives and family ties have been a strong part of the understanding of themselves. Social relations alone do not prove to be sufficient, and more people seek a stronger relationship by getting answers about heritable traits. We have to show respect for the children who experience this as important to themselves. That's why I and the Christian People's Party say no to the anonymous sperm donor. I am also pleased that a majority points out how ethically problematic it is with research on fertilised eggs. Now that stem cell research has gone far beyond the use of adult stem cells, this ethical dilemma becomes less difficult. We can achieve medical breakthroughs and cure diseases without using fertilized eggs and germinal human lives. I can hardly accept that human life is created to be used as a means of healing others. Research using adult stem cells makes this an unnecessary problem. This is how modern research solves a major ethical problem, and it is the proper use of research efforts. I fully agree with the majority who point out that we must contribute research funds and research environments for research in adult or adult stem cells. I am pleased that today there is a majority for a new and forward-looking biotechnology law that seeks to find good solutions to the many ethical challenges facing us by modern medicine. And again, both the rapporteur and the committee should be commended for a good attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e369	The right to life is enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights Article 3, and it is precisely the human rights which, among other things, are: is the basis for the work of the Council of Europe, where I myself am a member. Each person has an inviolable value because it is created in God’s image. Therefore, it is an ideal to show respect for each individual human being. The Christian People's Party also wants to create attitudes that promote respect for life. Medical-technological development is moving fast, which confronts us with ever-increasing ethical challenges. As politicians, while taking care of the possibilities offered by medicine, we must set limits on what should be law and what should not be law. We're also doing that to other sides of society. We are the legislative assembly, and we should not leave to researchers or industry to find the boundaries themselves in relation to their own interests. As a member of the Council of Europe – just for a short time – I have also followed up with the interest of research in biotechnology, where I experience the restrictive positions that prevail in this context, among others. in the case of human cloning. It is not just a specific Norwegian phenomenon that we are skeptical. I would like to quote from an article in the last paragraph of ‘Intermedicos’: «Is it a human right to be healthy at all costs? We want to work for a society where disease and suffering are absent. Of course. But at what price is this acceptable? ... Is it right to use a human life to save or repair another?We know that certain methods of modern biotechnology will require enormous amounts of human embryos and embryos to make an individual healthy. Cloning, for example, could lead to a cabinet-use and throw-mentality of human life that surpasses everything we've seen in human history. I believe that the back of modern biotechnology will disrupt the integrity of individuals and devalue human dignity." Here it's right to slow down. That is why I welcome the wishes of the majority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e392	It is an evaluation of a law that has existed since 1994, we have implemented. A big message came in front of the law, and that message was made by the government of Brundtland in its time. It'll be like different texts and propositions that there will be parts of them that you'll be able to agree with or disagree with. But what strikes me at least is that in the original message there are reflections and a thoroughness about these issues that you learn a lot from, and as I think, in the extension of it, the sitting government has also taken it inward. I had a quote from the message earlier. I would like to quote further something related to foetal diagnostics, where the government of Brundtland wrote: ‘New tests of this type shall be put into service only after authorisation from the same ministry. In order to avoid undesirable developments, strict restrictions should be imposed on the performance of such services. Any institution using foetal diagnostics shall report in writing on the activities of the department.’;» What we see is the exact same idea that the sitting government is now presenting, and that the majority in this room also stands for. But what's interesting is that the minority, which the Workers' Party is now representing, actually disagrees with such thinking. I think that's interesting. Because that means that the Workers' Party has now positioned itself on the sideline in an ethics debate where they previously drew up the guidelines, and where we follow those guidelines in many ways. Thus, where the government of Brundtland stressed that an offer should also be made under the authority of the public authority, the Workers' Party is able to stand in the middle of a comment with the Progress Party, where it is indignant about the tariff usage associated with ultrasonics. What you should be concerned about is: what is the consequence of widespread use? What kind of sorting societies do we go into? What are the premises for use? And then you get into something as subtle as tariff usage, and in addition, you can misunderstand how they are used, and you're worried that they might increase. We also see considerations from the Labour Party here that argue that there is a disagreement about things that the majority has never intended, that the Government has never proposed, and that no one is taking the initiative in doing so. There is also a historical tradition in the Workers' Party. The crash message was not a bad document. It was a good proposition that was made by the government of Brundtland in its time. We're trying to be loyal in the extension of that proposition when we evaluate the content, so that one will take care of the individuals, whether they're born or not. In that tradition, I thought the Workers' Party was standing, but I'm actually asking about it after listening to the debate we've had here today. I note that the Progress Party actually follows the majority on several points, while the Labour Party remains alone. There cannot be a situation where the Working Party over time can be earned standing in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e404	I didn't intend to take the word, but I have to do it. Some representatives from the government parties and now also the representative of Ballo have entered an absolute minefield in this debate. It is claimed that the minority would supposedly represent a sorting society. I don't think this is an acceptable argument. The strength of our democracy in Norway is that we basically have common attitudes towards people with disabilities like people who are completely equivalent to us who are so-called functionally healthy. It is not acceptable to make claims that would place individual batches in booths as more or less unethical in their actions and attitudes. If it was an abortion debate we should have, it shouldn't be taken here. And if that's what we had, I'd have to challenge both the Right Party and the Socialist Left Party at the most, but I'm leaving that ball, of course. I also hear that representatives of several parties are talking about value choices, and that certain parties should have patents on what should be the right values. This is not the case – fortunately not – in a democracy. I hear that someone says that today the majority stands for an upgrade of human dignity. I constantly hear the word'sorting societies', which the majority distance themselves from. Yes, so do I! And so do my party traps, and I think the other parts of the opposition do the same thing. I do not feel inferior to having acceptable and high-quality positions. In addition, it is produced that the minority does not wish to set limits. Both this message and the current law currently set limits. We disagree in some areas on exactly where the boundaries are going to go. But from that to claiming that I and my party almost release everything freely, is completely wrong, and I take a strong distance from it. I did not expect this to be the conclusion of this debate, on an area on which we are essentially agreed, and on which we in Norway can be proud to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e419	I longed for this to be a debate in which we respected each other's views. After hearing the representative, Elsa Scarbøvik, I must say I am very surprised. She says that man is created in God's image. Yes, I think so too – even the workers' party think so. When she makes this a matter of who has the right Christian faith, and suggests that the Workers' Party because we disagree on the matter, should not be rightful, I must say I am very startled.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e424	I am pleased with the starting point of the Council of States, saying that this and the debates we are going to have on these issues should take place with a good portion of humility from different points of view, and that there are difficult balances to be made. I think it's pretty difficult when someone experiences that representatives here today are partially distorting their views and trying to ask questions about or suggest that the minority here is just as open to a sort society. There are accusations and suggestions that I think are not worthy of this assembly. It is clear that in this debate there is a fear that we will be in the sorting society. But it's not much of the practice we've had now in relation to our biotechnology law and the methods we now have, which actually suggests that we have a sorting society, or that we have come closer to a sorting society through increased knowledge and better ultrasound research, or that we use this as a sort of sorting mechanism. I find that in many ways the majority shows a suspicion and a lack of confidence that people can manage the knowledge they get about the life that's inside, through these studies, that they lack faith that those who get that knowledge can actually manage it in a proper and ethical way, and in a way put a question mark in relation to the morals that people have. The improvement of foetal sound studies and the greater the opportunities, the greater the chance to disseminate knowledge and thus use the knowledge of an extended foetal medicine that enables us to actually do something to improve the situation of a child who may have anomalies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e431	Unfortunately, this debate has taken a very unfortunate turn in the last few minutes, when you see speakers from the Christian People's Party, one after the other, go up and profile that the majority in this position have upgraded human dignity, that is to say, the minority has downgraded human dignity. There are several people who say that we cannot accept this. No, we can't accept it! I said in my speech that I respected the views of the Christian People's Party and the announcement of the Minister of Health, but I also demanded respect for my view. I demand respect for the fact that my view of the Christian People's Party is as good as that of the Advance Party. One could almost get the impression of the opposite of one of the Christian People's Party's female representatives who was up here. In fact, you also got the impression that you just have to find yourself living with sickness, suffering and death, because we are created in God's image, and by the fall of sin it would be like this. Understood: we must be fundamentalists, we must not do anything that can improve human health and quality of life. This type of debate I thought we were far away in Norway in 2002. It should take the Christian People's Party inward, all of you!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e438	I believe that the powerful speeches that have been held now at the end of the debate, from both sides, may not serve a debate that should be open. That doesn't mean we have to limit the exchanges we're going to have. What made me take the floor was Asmund Kristoffersen's speech, which in a way made one feel unwarranted in the debate today. But there is absolutely reason, as also Olav Gunnar Ballo makes in his post, to question where the Workers' Party has placed itself in this matter. If one looks at the areas in which the Committee shares majority and minority groups, it is in fact alarming that the Labour Party is in many ways left standing alone in a number of areas where the Progress Party is united with the majority. I have full respect for the fact that the Workers' Party is opposed to a sorting society, but there is still reason to ask: In what areas of this message has the Workers' Party been willing to set limits to counteract a development in which technological development – I do not say that it is basically a human desire – makes it more and more possible to open up to a sorting society? Where has the Workers' Party been willing to be involved and put down important border posts and important markers to prevent such development? They have not been willing to do so in relation to foetal diagnostics, and they have not been willing to do so in relation to preimplantation diagnostics, which are the two crucial areas. It's okay to say that, but one should also show in practice that one is willing to set these types of limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e447	Britt Hildeng has spoken twice in the past and is now given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e451	With regard to the last representative, Höie said about pre-implantation diagnostics, it does not mean that we do not set limits. We say, like the Government, that we want to maintain the current law as on very, very strict indications give the opportunity. These include: in cases where one sees that there is a high risk of heritable diseases and conditions that indicate that children are going — most likely — to die at a very early stage in their lives, and otherwise completely fatal and very, very serious diseases. [[The President clubs.]] It is in line with what the Government proposes, and we maintain that. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e458	We have to keep to the speaking time now! The debate is getting pretty long, and we are now dealing with the speaking time that has been allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e461	Clearly, doubt and faith are the starting point for many points of view in this Chamber as well. But if doubt or belief becomes too extreme, it can also lead to rather extreme positions and arguments. I might think that the debate with this last turn has now shown it. I think it must also be right to set frameworks and set conditions for research environments, for the development of medicine, as we do in other disciplines. It is important that you have legal regulations that clearly and unambiguously safeguard the integrity and privacy of individuals. It is important with consent, with proper information, with data retention and record keeping, as we have pointed out by the majority, that professional secrecy is properly respected and that one is careful with regard to personal data. These are practical things the majority points to, and I have to say that the statement made by the representative Britt Hildeng, I have to distance myself from, including the argumentation and accusation when the representative Hildeng says that the majority does not trust people with knowledge and their management of this knowledge. That's what we have! In this case, those scientists must mean professionals and researchers in the field of biotechnology. We trust them. We wish, among other things: that part of the professionals in the Biotechnology Study shall have an independent and strong role in providing guidance to the Storting and to other decision-makers. But it is, after all, the task of politics and the responsibility of politicians to set a framework for research and development, and that is what we have done here. Otherwise, I must say that I am not happy with part of the arguments that have also come from the other side of the final phase of this debate. I think we had insisted on having a slightly less passionate debate on the field of biotechnology, and that we had gone into the practical and concrete things that we need to do in order to have a good biotechnology law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e472	This has been an important debate. There has been a future-oriented debate, and there has been a value debate where views have been tried between different majority and different minorities. It is essential that it be done in a field like this, and that it be done with the necessary respect that has largely affected most of this debate. Unfortunately, the senses have been put a little in the boil toward the end of the debate, but I don't think it should weaken that main impression. It's not that the minority doesn't want to set limits, as Mr. Asmund Kristoffersen pointed out quite correctly, but the minority has to endure the fact that the positions they take are tried and debated. It is a fact that the minority is in favour of lifting some set limits and that the minority is moving towards a new set of limits proposed by the Government on some points. That's a fact, and that's what I'm assuming is positions that the minority recognizes. What we need to avoid in such debates are characteristics – characteristics of each other as more or less ethical or more or less fundamentalist. That doesn't make sense. With what is now at stake, I think it will be possible to set out a course for a new legislation in this area that will mean that the Stortinget continues to take a considerable responsibility for putting the framework around an enterprise that will be there in human service and that will not violate human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e481	Then it seems that most things have been said in this case. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e500	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 6 and 7 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 3232]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e529	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the insertion of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e540	Then we've come to the third act of the opera act. Tonight, the Storting adopts a binding cost framework for new national opera buildings to be located in Bjørvika. Thus, a long-term process is over, and green light can be given to start the construction itself. Yes, the road has been long. From the start of the investigation until today, 13 years have passed. Four years ago the Stortinge treated the opera bag in its full width. At that time, a large majority in the Stortinge to build a new opera house, but due to disagreement about the location, no decision was taken. But the matter was not put to death. New extensive investigations were started, in particular this was the case with the Bjørvika option, and the case was brought forward again in the spring of 1999. Following the fall of the West Railway option during voting, the then government parties agreed in a subsidiary way with the Workers' Party and SV for a location of the Opera to Bjørvika. This could start work on pre-projects and the organisation of an international architectural competition. An important historical step was taken towards a new opera house. When the history of the opera house is first written, it would be right to withdraw the threads even further in time. It's been over 100 years since Edvard Grieg and others excited about creating an opera scene in connection with the construction of the National Theatre. Tried stranded. The same thing happened with later attempts. When the dream now finally seems to come true, it makes sense to see the construction of this large cultural building in connection with the marking of the 100th anniversary of the Union resolution. Although there will be no inauguration in 2005, the construction process will hopefully be well under way and the opera project can be considered a positive contribution to this marker. The dissolution of the Union, which is one of the most important events in recent Norwegian history, was then seen as the completion of the 1814 programme for the creation of its own Norwegian institutions. This allowed Norway to take its place among the other European national states. This was at a time when Norway had a strong cultural position in Europe, with Nansen, Ibsen, Bjørnson and Grieg, which undoubtedly helped to make the dissolution of the Union possible. In this perspective, the construction of new opera means that an important national cultural institution is lacking. It is therefore also appropriate to congratulate both the institution itself, the Norwegian Opera, and the Norwegian people that we pass this evening another important milestone on the road towards the full realization of this central cultural building. The evening post wrote in the management position yesterday: «The image of a late cultural nation we will not get rid of tomorrow.» So even though an opera building is not alone enough to create a cultural nation, at least we are now taking a new decisive step in the right direction. It is also gratifying, in this context, to note that the decision taken today has the support of all the parties in the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party. It is not least important in view of the further follow-up of a large and complicated project like this, that it has such a broad majority in the Stortinge in its back. Although this may not be the time to distribute flowers, I would nevertheless use the opportunity to underline the enormous effort that has been made over years – many years – by individuals and bodies under the direction of the Department, not least by Stadsbyg and the Norwegian Opera themselves, to get where we are today. For one who has followed this process relatively closely over a long period of time, it has been nothing less than impressive to notice the intensity and glow that have been demonstrated to achieve this. Architectural competition and pre-projects have been carried out according to Stortinget’s intentions. The architect's office has gained a lot of recognition. This has subsequently been technically, functionally and aesthetically processed up to a completed building proposal. I could still frame up, but I refer to the setting. There are only one points where comments have to be mentioned. This concerns the desire for the construction to be an opera for all. It means the intention that there should be the best possible availability for everyone throughout the house. We know that a lot has already been done from the outset through a dedicated SINTEF R & D project, carried out in close cooperation with disabled people's organisations, in order to make accessibility as good as possible. The remaining measures that can contribute to further improvements, I expect, will be further worked on, as is also evident from the Department's letter to the Committee attached to the nomination. What has probably been the subject of the greatest attention in the opera house case is undoubtedly the cost of investment. That's understandable. It is carefully explained the evolution on the cost side of the Government's proposition. In the Committee's opinion, reference has also been made to the comprehensive quality assurance measures implemented. In the final phase, an external review of the entire opera house project was carried out at Dovre International AS. They've delivered a thorough report. In the first round, Dovres pointed out the need for a slightly greater uncertainty provision than recommended by State Building. But after this, the State Building and the Ministry have reviewed and largely followed up the recommendations and adjustments made by Dovre International in its report. Additional risk mitigation measures will be implemented in line with the Dovre recommendations. With this in mind, we note that the proposal for a binding cost framework for the opera project differs insignificantly from the recommended framework of the Dovre International. However, in the case of the opera project as a whole, including the safety and cost aspects, as far as we can know, we have done what can be done to ensure that its implementation is successful. The thorough work done in the form of studies, reports, investigations, consultations, etc., citizens of a quality that gives us the necessary security as decision-makers. I know it is dangerous to use strong words, but I have to say, as the case-rapporteur, that there is now no time for further investigations. Now is the time for action, for implementation and for the realization of the construction work. But there is also reason for the Storting to stress that it is necessary to ensure good governance at all stages, at all levels, towards completion in order to prevent overruns. It's also imperative to remember that the uncertainty margin of 500 million. kr to be managed jointly by the two departments involved is only a buffer which can only be triggered by unforeseen exceedances and shall not be used for project extensions of any kind. It is important to bear in mind that the opera house, despite the enormous attention it has received, is still just one in the range of many cultural buildings that are thought to be built in this country. What happens to this project will easily have a transfer value for future projects. If this succeeds, it will also be easier to get in touch with other buildings – and vice versa, if it goes wrong, which we don't really believe, then we can just imagine. Then the Progress Party has once again put forward proposals to scrape the entire project. The lot also marks this time that it is against using public resources to build opera houses and therefore proposes once again that the opera house project be scrapped. It's not surprising in itself. On the other hand, I cannot fail to touch on the argument that the Progress Party is once again heading for. It seems incredible that one of the largest parties in the country in its attempt to scandalize the opera project reveals such a shocking glimmer in its number. The specific comments made by the party in the suspension are based on the maximum preliminary estimate in 1998 for a possible opera building in Bjørvika, namely DKK 1.4 billion. This figure comes from the time before the Government had provided a decision-making basis for the Bjørvika option and could recommend this as a real alternative, before the architectural competition and foreproject were started. Later, this option has been the subject of extensive quality assurance investigations of numerical material — first in connection with the 1999 proposal, which set the estimate at DKK 1.8 billion. Later this was adjusted in the context of the 2001 state budget to NOK 2,050 billion, well and mark in 1999-krona, and now finally in the proposition we are discussing today, to NOK 2,83 billion, converted to the 2002 price level. All the way it has been provided that the Stortinget would be presented with a proposal for a binding framework at a later date when the project was completed. Then the figures show that the increase that has occurred in the opera project is essentially due to real price developments as well as a necessary uncertainty provision. Therefore, the doubling of the nominal cost of the Progress Party refers to is both misleading and inadequate. So I'll just say in the end that it's been very positive to notice the increased interest in opera and ballet that's come in the last few years. In Norway, initiatives have been taken throughout the country to set up organisations to produce and disseminate opera and ballet. In parallel with the start of the opera house project in Norway, several new opera houses are also being built in the world. It is therefore with pride and joy that I recommend the Stortinget today to adopt the proposed cost framework for the Opera in Bjørvika. It becomes an important building block in the cultural nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e599	The debate on new operas has been exciting and is an expression of the fact that, through political dialogue, compromises and optimal solutions can be reached that bring together large sections of the population. The opera's crowd is big. A gallup study last week showed that more than 60 pst. nationally wanted a national opera. 64 pst. wanted the Opera to be a sighting, and the entire 79 pst. by the people of Oslo wanted a magnificent building. We note that the Government now, as in the past, emphasises that the Norwegian Opera in Bjørvika will have good working conditions to facilitate exciting ballet and opera placements, while at the same time the snow-heated opera building will be exposed as a magnificent building that will also premise for the new Bjørvika. The new opera will be a symbol of how culture and art contribute to the creation of society and give it new dimensions, dimensions such as the ability to combine cultural roots with cultural innovation, such as the ability to connect the present with the past and the future. For everything is here: today's traffic machine, yesterday's history with a thousand-year-old king's seat in today's medieval park and tomorrow with a modern city with culture, housing and business. Building the Opera in Bjørvika is in line with modern urban development worldwide. Investments in and development of large cultural institutions cannot be seen separately from the rest of society. One must also assess the cultural, economic and social implications of investment. And that's how you've thought in modern society, for example. When the Pompidou Centre was built in Paris, this is one of the thoughts when important cultural institutions were located in Barcelona, Bilbao, Gothenburg, Amsterdam and Sydney. To say that one should build an opera just for opera is to reduce the importance of art and culture in society. What just makes art and culture live is that it needs to be on society, it's transcendent with the usual notions. An opera in Bjørvika will just be surpassing, surpassing in the sense that it will be a creative element in a social development. A new opera in Bjørvika will not only stand there as a monumental building, but also appear as a symbol of the importance of art and culture for social development. What is most important in the two settings presented today, the opera-built or the Bjørvik traffic and development solution, can be discussed, but fortunately we do not have to have a historical review of it. I will nevertheless try an assumption by claiming that a future Bjørvika would not be the same without the Opera, and a future opera in Bjørvika would not be the same without a lower tunnel and solving traffic conditions. In view of the major discussions and the relatively large conflicts that lie behind us, I think we can congratulate the Opera itself, the Government and the Grand Duchy on the broad political consensus that is now being demonstrated in relation to these two projects, projects that in the years to come will interact with each other and give each other a positive boost in further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e612	Over 100 years have passed since Edvard Grieg spoke about the importance of Norway and Oslo getting their own opera. Already during the Union resolution, a national opera building was planned. It's really a small tragedy, not to say a comical operetta show, that we were going to leave the 1900s without an opera building in place. But now, finally, the plans have to be realized. Norway will end up as a different country in this area. Both Denmark and Finland have great national operas, Sweden even has two. And now the Norwegian people are going to have a national opera, and they certainly deserve it. I will give tribute to the case rapporteur for a thorough and good job with the opera message, and I fully agree with his presentation of the majority position, of which the Right is part, so I shall not repeat it. This is an important and distressing day for Norway as a cultural nation. I am very pleased that it is a broad majority to build a new opera. On the other hand, the Progress Party has once again chosen to stand on the outside, and they are clearly also in favour of the majority of the Norwegian people. Now it is the turn of opera and ballet art to get a significant boost, and I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Norwegian Opera on the day. At the same time, I want to commend everyone who works at the Opera for having managed to maintain such a high level of commitment despite the poor framework conditions of opera and ballet art. It is impressive that they have the power to maintain such a high artistic quality and an international level. With the physical environment and conditions under which the employees of the Norwegian Opera work, it is a pleasure. And not least, I would like to congratulate all cultural and opera-interested people in Norway, and there are many of them. A survey conducted on behalf of the Norwegian Opera, which was published a week ago, shows that people from all over the country say yes to a new opera. And not enough of that, but it's almost a popular requirement that the opera house should be a magnificent building. According to an interview with the representative Karin Woldseth on the NRK's website on 31 May, the Progress Party is «very surprised» about this result, yes, they believe the result is «arousing» in relation to the positions of the Advance Party. Yeah, that's enough. But now, fortunately, the positions of the Progress Party are not the most important, but the fact that the majority of the Norwegian people want an opera. The survey also shows that people from all parts of the country, both women and men, from all income groups and educational groups, believe that we need a national opera. It's joyous, and it takes once and for all the life of the Progress Party's claim that opera is just a fine culture for a few interested in Oslogryta and in Akershus. For the right, the study is not surprising. The reality is that it is a huge – and increasing – interest in music drama and music theaters all over the country. Beyond a few hundred thousand saw and heard well over 100 performances in the Opera last year. The coating is on a total of 84 pst. The regional operas play for full houses. Last year the Riksopera traveled around the country with 23 opera and ballet performances to twelve different cities, and the Riksopera is engaged in Ringsaker, Nordfjordeid and Kristiansund. So the study fits well with reality. In an interview in the newspaper ‘Fremskritt’, the representative Woldseth from the Progress Party presents the new opera building as ‘the project of the madness’, a mackwork and a scandal project that should be scrapped. She exaggerates costs and is very approximate to numbers, and skips what is involved in price increases. She further claims that a new opera “will have disastrous consequences for cultural life in the districts”. Where in the world did she get that? This is pure imagination! That must be documented by the Progress Party. And I would challenge Mr Woldseth's representative to elaborate on these statements, which I believe are the common position of the Progress Party, because they are not in touch. It's almost that you can wonder if we're dealing with the same thing. No, it is not the Opera that is a scandal, but the Cultural Policy of the Advancement Party! The new opera house should be an important symbol of what we represent as a modern nation, and not least what place culture should have in our society. A national opera is the last of the big institutions we're missing. I am quite sure that the opera in Oslo will have significant ring-effects and become an important driving force for the development of opera and dance throughout the country, yes, for the whole of Culture Norway. In the previous opera projects, the construction of the house was linked to the development of a national plan for the production and dissemination of opera and ballet in Norway. The Ministry has proposed a substantial redeployment of the work on this plan in relation to the decision on enlargement and aims to present it in the Culture Communication presented in the new year 2003. It's a significant economic boost we're now taking. And it has been important for us to stress that this investment should not be at the expense of cultural activity in other areas or in other parts of the country. Overall, there will be more money for culture. I am very pleased with that. Former Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein presented to the Stortinget two opera stuffs. Now I could say a lot about Anne Enger Lahnstein's political function. That's not all I remember with equal joy. But in the opera business, she did an admirable job. As the rapporteur pointed out, the first operating matter was dealt with in 1998. The central government proposed to continue working on the plans for an opera on the West Railway. There was a broad majority in the Storting to build an opera, but they were unable to gather about a localization. It was due to the fact that the Progress Party would not vote, either primarily or subsidiaryly. In 1999, a new operasac with two localisation alternatives was promoted: the West Railway and the Bjørvika. Neither would the Progress Party vote for any of the options. In order to follow up the decision of the majority of the population to build the opera, the centre parties chose to vote for Bjørvika at the time after the option with the West Railway had fallen. Thus the choice of Bjørvika was a fact. The right was stuck on the West Railway that time. We thought that an opera on the West Railway would be both cheaper and easier to implement. But we respect, unlike the Advance Party, the desire of the majority of the population for an opera in Bjørvika. The fact that the most expensive option was chosen means that the Progress Party must take responsibility for it. They've deliberately headed for the most expensive option. If they had respected the wish of the majority of the population to build a new opera and voted for the Western Railway, the cheapest option would have been chosen. This is a fact that the Progress Party cannot unfold. The beauty of snow in Bjørvika will raise awareness far beyond Norway’s borders, and I am sure it will contribute to new growth and development across the region. In fact, we will have Europe's most modern opera houses. Well, 2.8 billion kroner is a lot of money. We all agree on that. But this is an investment for hundreds of years to come. And it's a wise investment, which I'm sure we'll eventually get back in diversity. Now the Opera is to be safely unloaded in the port of Bjørvika. The size has been given a good basis for taking a final decision. It's a great and exciting building that's about to travel. The snow sleet winning project is aesthetic and realistic. With this built Oslo will emerge with a completely new and beautiful profile towards the sea. There will be an important building block in the «Fjordbyen» and the realization of the vision of a city opening up to the fjord. Finally, I would like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that the Opera is now in port. And on September 20, 2008 we have to be ready to participate in the opening show!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e663	We have to!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e666	Now we almost just need the champagne and fireworks. I have to thank the representative from the Right for spending most of her contribution on saying and explaining what the Progress Party believes. Actually, I feel quite disrespectful about that. After all, for the next two hours we have to have an opera in two acts from the pulpit of the Storting, and this opera is going for the Progress Party in moll – a pure and cut tragedy from our stand. As the President is sure to understand, the Progress Party does not intend to let go of this matter without our having to make a sound statement as to what we think of this pompous project. It happens without any set-ups and costumes, but at least we will be told that this is a crazy waste of taxpayers' money on a project where we don't even know the final sum. There isn't any Seville shavings in the government, but it's so good to use the savings knife. In many places in this country, public poverty is very visible, and when, despite this, you spend money completely uncritically and at any price on a performance project like the Opera in Bjørvika, yes, you actually have to wonder what the real motives are. In the opera bag, I even think that Figaro would be envious, because the husband of the wedding of all parties except the Advance Party has been able to build an opera, it is rare to see. It will be exciting to see how soon the divorce comes when the final price tag comes on the table. It would have been tempting to wish for a magic flute, but I would not elaborate on what I would use it for. - Enough about that. However, I would like to point out once again that it is not at all the final bill we are dealing with here today – it is an estimate, and it is assumptions. That in this case there is a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party to scrape the project are no surprise, because we firmly believe that this is a waste of public money. The bill has grown almost inconspicuously from SEK 1.8 billion to what we're going to approve today, NOK 3.2 billion, and then we're talking about just one building and one empty. In addition, I don't know how many billions of infrastructure upgrades around. How many hospitals, how many new schools and how much hospital equipment could we not have got for the same price? I get to say as one of our Oslo representatives: we have an opera, and it's on Youngstorget. It would have cost a fraction to rust it up, and with a little imagination and active architectural work, I think we could have gotten a much more reasonable opera where it is now. Then the representative spoke of Sjøli that I thought the result of this poll was «arousing». Yes, I thought it was eye-catching, but the representative Sjøli has obviously misunderstood very much, or she has read it the way she would like to read it. That's not what it said. What it said was that I thought it was alarming that so many people could believe it in relation to all the requests that the Progress Party receives, since we are the only party that has flagged that we are against this project. That's what I thought was alarming. It didn't match the percentage that we had received. By the way, did the president know that in the new opera building there are 220 pieces that won't really see what's going on on the stage? In the past, it was 640, but you've been able to get it down to 220. When asked about the ministry, you're told that this is working on, but that acoustics is the most important thing, not if people see the scene. I guess you're thinking that there's hardly ever any stuff in that room. So president, we're going to hope we won't be one of the 220 if we ever find the way to Bjørvika. The summary of the landfill proposal states that the opera house project in Bjørvika should ‘be a monumental building representing Norway at its best’. Yes, at least it represents Norway's politicians at their best in money use. I'm not Madama Butterfly, I'm not a widow either – and today I'm not happy at all when this scandalous project gets a majority. I will re-examine the proposals of the Progress Party, which is in the Inner East. S. No 235.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e689	Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to. Also, the president is too champagne in cozy and eventful layers, but it won't be in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e694	I had not written anything about money in my post today, and had really not thought to say anything about it. But as you go out here, I want to come up with some considerations about money usage anyway. Now what does an opera actually cost? I guess it costs about the same as a frigate, if you get it cheap, or it costs the same thing as unexpected exceedances on the construction of five frigates. I think that when the frigates are parked – useless and rusted away – the opera house is so far in progress and adjusted. For my part, we could build five opera houses and buy one frigate, to see what a poor investment the frigates are. After planning, designing and discussing for a number of years, it finally seems that we are now ready to launch and implement the great cultural policy promise that the Opera in Bjørvika is supposed to be. For SV, it has always been important that this promise is something that many, not to say all, must come to terms with – whether living in Vardø or in Oslo, old or young, interested or not interested in the opera initially. Building an opera, placing it by the water in a new part of the city and equiping it with technical and creative creative and performing forces of the highest quality will have a symbolic and cultural value that will extend far beyond the actual and physical location of the Opera. But in order for us to be able to experience this impact and the value as something positive, which we all participate in, it is important that some assumptions are met, and then in particular there are two key assumptions I would like to point out: First of all, we have to bet nationally, and we have to promise nationally. If the Opera is to contribute to a nationwide cultural boost, it is important to involve the whole country as well. Secondly, the political will to make such a promise must be translated into a concrete effort on the artistic forces to initiate, inspire and motivate this promise. Artists, cultural workers and artists live as badly on the myth of air and love as all of us do, and therefore it is important that these be given the means and resources necessary to transform our ideas into realities. This means that the opera in Bjørvika should have the role and the ringing effects that we want, we must make sure that it is both soldering deep and fanned wide. In SV, we worked a long time to get the production, development and dissemination of opera and dance art started before the new opera building was completed, and not afterwards. You can't expect the opera house itself to be able to dissipate an enormous interest in these art forms just by standing there in all its beauty. Of course, it will be an important inspiration, but a key prerequisite for bringing up a nationwide exercise and experience in this area, will be that these cancers are already in swing. Then the development of the opera house and the development of the music drama and dance can play on the team and take mutual benefit and benefit from each other. So we have to make a difference between form and content, between house construction and the construction of stage art, that is. operate institution building in the proper sense of the word. Only in this way do we think it is possible to lay a solid foundation for anchoring a cultural and artistic boost in the whole population. We in SV are therefore pleased that the project National Plan for the Production and Distribution of Opera and Ballet in Norway has now been developed and sent to the Ministry of Culture for consultation. The aim of this project is precisely to lay the foundations for a national operating policy, where the Norwegian Opera will be a central player, but also where the development of the national, regional and district operas will take place at the same time as, and in step with, the construction of the new opera house. By creating such an overall plan and strategy for the production, development and dissemination of this stage art, which is aimed both at reaching new and broad audiences across the country, and at building on the local and artistic forces and on the interest that already exists in the local environments, SV sees as well a good basis for strengthening opera interest in Norway, and to underpin a more country-wide interest in this form of art and culture. So the strategy is: set wide! But this does not work without a thorough search. Some of the main keywords of the national plan are cooperation between professionals and amateurs and that the Norwegian Opera should be a resource and competence centre for the whole country, from which projects and actions with regional and local anchoring can benefit. But if this plan is to be put into practice, we also need to invest in the professional resources that amateurs and others will learn from. SV is therefore committed to making targeted efforts with resources and resources on the creative and performing artists operating in the theatre, orchestra and dance fields. Composers, librettists, dancers and dramatists must have a framework that opens up greater innovation of opera and ballet in Norway than has so far been the case. There must be room for the renewal of contemporary and contemporary music, while maintaining and developing old repertoire. This means that they have to write new works and introduce new versions, and that they have the opportunity to cooperate with and meet people from both our own country and the great foreign world. After all, it is all these forces that are going to contribute to and bear the great cultural policy promise that we all hope for. There are many who say that such a cultural policy boost that we go around dreaming about, just is it: a dream, an utopia. Most people aren't interested in opera, some say, and they're never going to be. Believe it? During the Committee's visit to Spain in the spring, we were lucky enough to visit Bilbao and the Guggenheim Museum. It's not an opera, it's a cultural building and a monumental building, as our opera seems to be. In conversation with the municipal authorities they informed that the resistance to the launch of the construction start of the house in Bilbao was enormous. They meant 94-95 pst. was against the construction and that only 5-6 pst. was positive. We did not receive any fresh polls. I don't think anyone needed it. The history and the role built for the city in development continue and today, most of us know. After all, based on the polls in Bilbao, it doesn't look bad for our opera. Yes, I have to admit that I myself was surprised at the numbers that were presented a few weeks ago, which showed that the entire 57 pst. the population will have a new and interesting opera house. And just as happy: the desire for a new opera comes from all parts of the country, all age groups, all income and education groups and both sexes. And not only do they want a new opera, they also think it should be of such a quality that it becomes a sight for the capital. The background to this positive attitude, I think, is that people have understood exactly what we are standing here and argue that the construction of a modern institution and an architectural innovation in the port pool in Oslo are something that will have positive ringing effects for everyone. A magnificent building in Oslo that houses an opera is, of course, a great building and an opera house, but the sum is probably more than that. Sometimes one plus one becomes more than two! People know the opera house in Sydney, they remember Guggenheim in Bilbao, and many have seen the new black diamond in Copenhagen. They therefore also understand that the value of such a new and different magnificent building will have not only nationwide but also long-term effects — far into Norwegian counties and small municipalities, far into the big world and far ahead. It's going to be noticed all over the country that this monumental building and this modern institution are going to travel. This is how the new Bjørvika opera will become an important contributor to joy, identity and community, not only locally and nationally but also globally, in a world where countries are increasingly seeking to act as national brands towards each other. In relation to tourism, international cooperation, trade agreements, etc. I think people think it's much better to be recognized by the symbol value of a striking opera than to be identified as a small, rich and sometimes selfish oil nation far up north. The opera house in Bjørvika will be built on lots of opportunities in our time, which will also provide a return in retrospect. That the opera house will be a gift to future generations, is no floss. Investing in the construction and development of a powerful and living opera and dance culture, and building a building for its glory, will give our descendants not only a historical witness of our time, but also a value base to build on. We in SV are therefore delighted to kick the earth, and to get started with the cultural and artistic entrepreneurship that lies ahead of us. And we look forward to the opening performance in the autumn of 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e733	The process until the construction of a new opera house in Norway can be compared to an opera in several acts, with a dramaturgy that belongs to the singer. I would like to remind you that where the Stortinget in 1998 rejected the decision-making process and the Kappred Kepphester, so that the question of new opera was again at risk of being thrown out on a desert hike, then Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein demonstrated his decisiveness, determination and clear political will, so that in June 1999 the Stortinget could finally adopt the construction of a new opera house in Norway. Today's theme is therefore not opera or non-opera, the West Railway or Bjørvika, sail if the Advance Party would have liked such a discussion. Today's decision brings the opera project into a new phase, where the spade can finally be placed in the soil, or rather a phase in which poles can be set in the mountains. I am absolutely sure that there are some who will celebrate with champagne today, with or without the inspiration of the Advancement Party's Karin Woldseth. There are many who honestly deserve the celebration, because there is an unusual amount of demanding and good craftsmanship behind today's decision. Opera and ballet interests in Norway show a joyful increase. A number of operas are set up across the country, often in cooperation between professionals and amateurs. The new opera house will provide opera and ballet with worthwhile work. This, in turn, creates the basis for the actual content of the plan for the production and dissemination of opera and ballet throughout the country. The whole country is going to enjoy the opera in Bjørvika. It's the way that there are some cultural institutions that we're just going to have one of them in this country. The opera is one of these. I note that people throughout our long-term country express enthusiasm that in 2008 the country can consecrate a new opera house in Bjørvika. I am convinced that a new and modern opera house will bring ring-effects throughout the country, to our joy for ever and for generations to come. Experience from other major construction projects shows the need for tight management and continuous monitoring of cost developments at all levels. The construction of a modern opera house in Bjørvika is a very complex construction project that places great demands on planning, organisation and coordination between a number of agencies and trade unions. With my knowledge of the project, I find the organisation that is established, and the measures that are already in place, very reassuring. This is also confirmed by Dovre International, who has carried out the external quality assurance and the calculation of uncertainty. It is equally important to stress the need for the departments concerned to have sufficient capacity to maintain their managerial capacity throughout the period of construction. The parties note that the proposal for a binding cost framework differs little from the recommended cost framework of the Dovre International, given the implementation of certain measures. Now when we build a new opera, it's important that the house also becomes functional and a good job for those who want to have their daily work there. It's probably earned the Norwegian Opera after years in dire conditions. It has therefore been right to meet some of the Opera's priority wishes. However, the possibility of tight governance and cost control requires limiting changes along the way. In this respect, I record what is written in the proposition that the adopted cost framework is given the highest priority, so that claims from the Norwegian Opera that incur additional costs can only be granted if the Opera at the same time imposes cost reduction measures. It's part of the units that we decide in this room the construction of monumental buildings. In this way too, today's decision is historic. It is gratifying that polls show that people want a magnificent building to delight the Norwegian people in the days and future. The opera in Bjørvika will be a great architectural and cultural policy greeting to future generations. It becomes a signature of our time with address into the future. Let's allow ourselves to become a little top-notch: all cultural interests in Norway have reason to rejoice over today's decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e749	I'm going to continue with the maximum power of Haga's representative. I believe that the construction of opera represents the greatest cultural promise for the whole country since we built the Nidarosdom in Trondheim. It's a building that if we succeed, maybe will be the most important signal building, the most important building that will be connected to the country, for a long time to come. We are now building an opera country to be proud of for perhaps hundreds of years to come. It's a big responsibility, and it's important that we do it properly. The construction of opera is not an Oslo project, but it is a national project. The left was originally for opera at the West Railway Station. The decision to build an opera in Bjørvika was made in 1999, and we will follow that closely. The winner's proposals in the architectural competition have received a general, very good reception. Senses of opera as construction works are very important, it is even more important that this grand hall should have artistic content that enhances the value of the building. Architecture is important, but will have its highest value in interaction with artistic content. It implies an obligation to step up efforts on the art form to enter the opera. There is such a large national long-term context that costs have to be assessed. It is costly to build an international monumental building as a new opera. But if we succeed, I am convinced that the value we get left is far greater than what we put into funding, and that there will be an opera that you can be proud of across the country. The construction of the opera and the development of Bjørvika are two different projects and can be carried out independently of each other, but should nevertheless be seen in the context of this debate. The Bjørvika extension is an important urban development project for Oslo, a practical implementation of a vision to develop the fjord city in Oslo. Bjørvika is an extension of the centre of housing, culture and industry from 4000 to 5000. The left, particularly through the current Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum for a number of years, has played a crucial role in establishing the fjord city. A lower tunnel is crucial for such development, so that in Oslo, in cooperation with the state, we are given the opportunity to develop the Bjørvika into a living, intimate urban area that will be worthy of the new opera. I'm amazed at the Center Party which will build an opera in Bjørvika, but which in its note will not use state funds on a lower tunnel. So you want a permanent solution with an opera located in one of the largest intersections of the country. It is easy to relate to the Progress Party, which has never seen the value of investing in culture, which has never understood that this is a good investment, and which has never seen the value of facilitating the development of the intimate big city on a human scale, but which wants an impersonal urban development based on the maximum use of land, with the consequences it has for areas that will function after the expansion. It is important – and we appreciate it – that it has been added to an environmentally friendly development of both the Opera and Bjørvika as a whole. And it's important to create a regulatory plan to limit car traffic as much as possible in this area that is as close to the country's main and largest collective hub, namely Oslo S. It was said in the earlier debate that they wanted an opera that was for everyone. I see that the Opera is definitely for everyone. It's obvious that the Progress Party doesn't see it, if they don't know how full the opera hall is actually in relation to other scenes in the city, and how wide it is in the group that actually uses the Opera. I'm just as concerned that we're going to have room for the slim in a new opera, that we're going to have room for the chamber opera, that we're going to have room to think about new things, and that we're going to have the opportunity to try and experiment with the new things. I had a great experience as a teacher, when I was in the Opera with 30 16-17-year-olds on Oslo Tour. They played a rock music on the bus down the road, which made me hope they didn't know English. On the return trip there was one track that went over and over again, for we had been to the Opera, and the only thing that worked on the bus trip home was the Tower. The challenge now is to get all Oslo politicians to make this also a monumental building with regard to the perimeter, and to make sure that there isn't a little candy in a forest of highlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e770	A rich and diverse cultural life is a necessary prerequisite for the further development of viable societies. Therefore, the Coastal Party is committed to ensuring that public investment, culture and cultural construction are geographically evenly distributed across the whole country. A state investment in a new opera house in Bjørvika of over 3.3 billion Norwegian tax dollars to a field of culture based on interests from a very small part of the population is not, in the view of the Coastal Party, the best management of subtle, state-owned cultural resources. An opera building in Bjørvika will, in the opinion of the Coastal Party, be an offer to limited and particularly interested groups of the capital’s inhabitants and to little joy for the rest of the country. It will result in a very uneven distribution of cultural resources over the years to come. In addition, such an opera-building would require a significant government grant for operating costs and thus would place a heavy burden on the annual cultural budget. This has been estimated by the Minister of Culture to increase operating costs by 45 to 50 million. kr at 2002 price level. According to Stadsbyggen’s letter of 15 January 2002, there is reason to believe that the Minister of Culture’s estimate is underestimated. The coastal party has a clear view that this will affect the future cultural effort in the districts in particular. There is a cost framework of over SEK 3.3 billion, which is likely to be overestimated by the uncertainties that exist. Once the state has started the project, it must be completed – cost what it will cost, and it has well been announced in the past by the Minister of Culture. Such a race will not be part of the Coastal Party when we know in addition that this expansion triggers changed solutions in terms of infrastructure and road solutions in the area, with costs of probably over NOK 3 billion. My claim is that the total cost of these projects is likely to exceed well over DKK 10 billion – in addition to the investments that come as a result of these expansions. One consequence may be that today's decision is the beginning of a totally unpredictable cost of the development of a new metropolitan area in Oslo. If you are looking around the country with a light and a lamp, you must do well to find a land that is more costly and unpredictable. Nevertheless, opera is likely to be the smallest cost in relation to the domino effect triggered by this Decision. Another thing is that you want to put a huge pressure on Oslo, as well as that such public investment will have to be highly inflationary and put pressure on the economy, especially in the Oslo area. In the case of investments that can facilitate increased value creation so that in future we can develop both our culture and our business life throughout the country, it shows that it is not possible within a responsible framework. Therefore, these investments are in stark contrast to the challenges we face in the districts. I can mention Northernland in particular with its challenges, including: in infrastructure and roads. The Nordlandsbanen has an immediate need for almost $1 billion to be in acceptable condition at all. It was found after an inspection by the Swedish Railway Agency on the Nordlandsbahn a short time ago. There is no longer talk of extending the railway northwards, but the problem is that government authorities are rocking the future and existence of the Nordlandsbahn. Nor is the E6 standard in the Nordic region something to boast about. Large parts of E6 are so narrow that there is no space for the middle stripe. In addition, E6 is shared in Northern Ireland by the fact that we have the only ferry link on the European road across Europe. A combination of E6 would cost a small part of the investment to which you are committed. I could have mentioned a number of examples that the Coastal Party believes are and should be a public responsibility and a national responsibility, but it is not a political will to give the necessary priority. Had this matter only concerned a clean opera building, it would clearly have received a new assessment of the Coastal Party. On this basis, I will instruct the Coastal Party Group to vote against the construction of a new opera house in Bjørvika.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e791	Yeah, I'm sure there's a lot of the Coastal Party votes coming together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e794	A decision was taken on 15 June 1999 to build a new opera house with a location in Bjørvika. Today we adopt the project with a cost framework of 3,330 million. SEK, including a spare pot of 500 million. I hope it is not used. The rapporteur, who has also done a very good job in relation to the suspension, has explained the content of these costs and the reason for the additional costs since 1999. Taking into account both project changes and price increases, the mark-up from 1999 to now is acceptable. Many of us saw the entry on the Day Revy yesterday from the opera in Sydney, Australia. The opera there was 14 times more expensive than adopted, and the project was on the verge of being scraped several times. Today the opera is the flagship of Australia, and no longer talks about the costs and exceedances. Now the tourists travel to Australia to experience the opera instead of experiencing the kangaroos. Building an opera is the largest single cultural policy issue in Norway. I hope it will be the flagship that Norway needs, as a known cultural nation. When I say Norway and not just Oslo, I believe it will be an example of the development and driving force of the arts opera and dance for the whole country. We're not going to have 14 exceedances on the new opera in Bjørvika. I feel quite confident that the work on the design is so carefully and in detail planned that we will not experience any major exceedances. During the consultations on the opera house, the management of the Norwegian Opera could assure that the new national opera would attract regional configuration, so I encourage the whole country to start planning and practice setup. In Harstad, the joy was great when Opera Nord received 500 000 kroner through the state budget for 2002. This led to the start of the Opera Nord Foundation in February of this year. They look with joy and anticipation until the national opera is finished, and take it as a matter of course that they should go to the capital and play for the whole country. That's how dance and theatre groups, choirs and musicians in the rest of the country have to think in the years to come. It is clear that from the districts we are concerned about whether the means for cultural action in other parts of the country are being reduced in this increase in a single cultural action over so many years. Some believe that the Oslo Opera House is going to push music schools, orchestras, music festivals, movies, theatres and even cultural memories like stave churches, even though the last one is sorting under the Riksantikvaren and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In the position, the majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, say that it is essential that national, regional and district operas be developed simultaneously and in line with the construction of a new opera house. It will be important to play on local environments in order to build up interest in this type of culture. Someone calls it fine culture, I'd rather say culture that most people can be happy about. The working party is pleased that the opera bag has broad support in Stortinget. Only the Progress Party is outside – strangely, because one of the members of the Advance Party in the Committee has worked at the Opera. I'm not talking about the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen. But these are the usual signals from the Progress Party when we talk about culture. They have one cultural interest that they think is worth spending public money on, and there are boats. Why? They can just calm down ashore! I am pleased that the Minister of Culture and the Church has on several occasions clarified that opera houses in Bjørvika should not go at the expense of cultural policy efforts in other parts of the country, but come in addition. The main concerns about the development of Bjørvika lie in the road project. Therefore, I am pleased that these matters have been presented as two separate matters, although they are often seen together. I am also pleased that the Committee is now showing so clearly that neither culture nor transportation measures in the districts are to be prioritised because of the national monument in Bjørvika. The representative Swensen and I are both from Nordland, and we disagree – congratulate Norway!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e822	This is a major and important day for Norwegian cultural life in general and for the art forms opera and ballet in particular. Today the Stortinget is invited to take the final decision that will give the Norwegian people a worthy opera house and an architectural landmark. The Opera House project is handled by the Storting twice before, as we've heard before today, and with a good deal higher temperature than we've at least had so far in the debate. It is with great pleasure that I note that the Storting family, culture and administration committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has given a comprehensive position on the construction of opera houses in Bjørvika and the premises for this, and that a decision is to be taken today on a cost framework within which the project will be managed. With a positive decision today, we will be able to put in a few months' time the first spasmodic tick to lead towards the inaugural establishment in the autumn of 2008. The most controversial questions that have become linked to the opera house project have been localisation and costs. In the previous round, June 15, 1999, we clarified the question of location. Now it has been working for three years with architectural competition, regulatory plan and pre-projecting. Planning has come so far that we can establish a binding cost framework. Initial appropriations will also be granted for the treatment of the revised national budget. I am confident that Stortinget has received a good basis for decision in this matter. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee in its configuration gives full support to the proposal presented by the Government. Wide political deal about the opera house will be a strength for the project and provide a good starting point when we're about to start the construction phase. It is also important that the decision be followed up with the necessary annual permissions so that the project can keep the progress that has been made. It's very positive to see that the project has broad uprisings in the people. A poll indicates that close to 60 pst. to build opera houses, and this is relatively independent of age, sex, housing, education and income. And even more people want us to build a magnificent building, and I'm glad. It is also natural to mention the ‘National Plan for the Dissemination of Opera and Ballet’, although construction bags are handled in the Stortinget today. The two preceding operaproposals, from 1998 and 1999, had, as is well known, own chapters on opera and ballet distribution in the districts. This was the reason why the Stortinget, when the decision on opera houses in Bjørvika was taken on 15 June 1999, took the following decisions at the same time: ‘A model of opera and ballet distribution is being developed in Norway for the completion of the new opera house.’ The Ministry has worked in parallel with the opera house project and the national plan and has committed to a substantial progress in the project in relation to the quoted decision in Stortinget, as the Stortinget is briefed in the opera house proposal for today’s management. The plan was launched on a hearing in April this year, with a deadline of 15 September. The Ministry aims to deal with the plan in the early 2003 Culture Communication. I cannot find any reason to join the content of the listener draft. A real hearing round has been set up to ensure that policy-making takes place after the hearing. But I want to highlight the broad presentation given by the situation of opera and dance in the districts. It tells of an impressive large and rising commitment to opera throughout the country. When it comes to ballet and dance, the plan makes good for the happy high quality of much of what is being produced today, and thus about the great potential for developing the dance art that we now have in our country. I will also briefly discuss the matter that the Stortinget will deal with later today, namely the biggest message on the development of Bjørvika. When Stortinget decided that the opera house should be located in Bjørvika, it was also explicitly agreed that the project should be carried out independently of urban development in the area otherwise. This was a very important commitment, and it is also a strong contributory reason that the project for the opera house has been carried out in accordance with the progress plan presented to the Stortinget in 1999. This does not mean, of course, that it is uninteresting what is happening in the vicinity of the opera house. It is positive that there is a broad political agreement to participate in the conversion of the highway in Bjørvika. Good neighbourhood is a premise for the opera house and the Norwegian Opera to have the necessary framework conditions and as they ignite. For the sake of order, I would nevertheless like to stress that I believe that the construction phase of the opera house should also be detached from other projects in Bjørvika. Only in that way can we be reasonably sure to meet for the opening performance – those who want it – in a new opera house in September 2008. Today, the Stortinge will adopt a cultural policy lift for the nation, a lift we can afford. We have never had better advice in our country at a time when we have made such a decision with such a lift. When we think back in history and look at the time we've seen other major construction projects going on, that's among other things. Named Nidarosdom, the state of the land was then quite another. Yet they prioritised it. So if we can't prioritize it in the state that our country has today – well, what time are we going to be able to build such an opera house? The decision that will be taken today is a lift that is worthy of a cultural nation. I am also happy and relieved that a majority of the people support us in this proposal – not only the majority of the Stortinget, but also the majority of the people. It certainly shows that we should not just make political decisions on the basis of the letters and recordings we get, but it may also say something about who responds, namely those who disagree, not those who agree. So the silent plural has shown through polls that it's the same in this, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e867	There are many holes and questions in this case. One of them was pointed out by the representative Woldseth in her posts – from 220 of the public places you don't see, or you see bad, the scene. It may well be that the Council of State and those who have been in charge of this project have assumed that you will never get a full hall. The largest hole is so large that you can drive some trailer loads with financial overruns. This hole has been pointed out, among others. by HolteProjekt and ECON, who say that there are poor calculations of the opera house itself, and that a total of SEK 8.5 billion must be spent on getting order in the area around built – according to both TV postings and articles in the evening post as early as November 22nd last year. Obviously, the Council of State has not been afraid of the increase in the price tag, from DKK 1.4 billion to DKK 3.3 billion in a few years. My question is, what does it take to scare the Council of States? A price tag of $10 billion, a bill of $15 billion, or $20 billion? After all, the state councils have been quoted in the media for the construction of the opera ‘indiscriminate price’. Why does the Council of State and the Government not have the same view as regards the crowns of hospitals and schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e874	I'm not going to say anything about these 220 public places, because I think the Progress Party knows more than the rest of this in the hall knows about it. It is obvious that the people who come to the opera building will be able to see, and they will be able to listen. That's why they go there. When it applies to the amounts and numbers quoted in relation to what's going to happen around the Opera, I think we're going to be a little bit careful to post it on. It was asked what caused me to be frightened. I'd like to say that what scares me a little bit is the ability of the Progress Party to calculate. When they say that the cost has gone up from $1.4 billion to $3.3 billion, and we see how they've got that number in place, the way I calculate it scares me a lot. But it is obvious that an opera building should not be built at any cost. I have never said that in an interview. With an opera building that has been planned as thoroughly as this, I have great faith that we will be able to stay within the cost framework that we will adopt. We have a safety margin of 500 million. kr, which we would rather not use, and which we are required to deposit because it can appear undetected things. That's why we have something to go on. In order to start calculating how much we want to use, we can only tell you that we have used approx. $30 billion to build out sick homes in the last few years. So now we're going to use approx. Three billion kroner on an opera building that it'll take us five years to build. If we look at the total costs we spend on different construction projects, this is not the big prom or the percentage – when we're going to divide it into 5 years – compared to all the other construction projects we have here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e887	As I tried to find out in my reply, it is not just the Advance Party that asks questions about the calculations that have been made. Also serious actors like ECON and HolteProject do. I would like to ask the Council of State for a concrete comment on the price tag of SEK 8.5 billion – just in the area around the Opera – that these serious actors have come up with. With regard to the increase in prices, this whole increase from NOK 1.4 billion to NOK 3.3 billion cannot be explained by price increases, because we have had no doubling of prices in Norway over such a short period of time. At the same time, I would like to say that I believe that the Council of State here must be clear and clear on what responsibility she assumes when she stands behind these calculations. Even today, I have a little bit of said that I am willing to eat my old, sour slippers if the bill on this opera is less than NOK 10 billion. It's guaranteed to go over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e896	Then I will first say, Good appetizer! The slippers are to be joined by the representative for five years before he can start eating on them – I'm not going to say anything more about that. But I want to say a little bit about the costs. So if we assume that the cost frame totals $3.3 billion, which we've added, that's going to be, for example. determined 1.6 pst. the commitments for investment in the period 1998-2002. The corresponding figure is 0.9 per million of the total expenditure of the State budget over the same period. In fact, here we are not talking about very large amounts of money in relation to what we use on the extension page and on investments in our country. We're talking about building an opera house – one opera house for the country. And we have received from all those who have had contributions to this matter in the hall today – at least from most – a presentation of how the rest of the country will also use this opera house. And then I'm going to subtract the math part from the progress part. When we look at how they've come to realize that the opera project has risen from 1.4 billion to 3.3 billion dollars, we find that they've taken the base of undocumented numbers. They have hoped that the Stortinget has already agreed to a frame of over 2 billion kroner, and so the rest – approximately – of what has happened in relation to the price increase, the rise in prices. Cannot discuss even the progress party away from it. Finally, the price of $10 billion. Here I expect the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen of my own opera building. If he thinks the whole Bjørvika project, there is a discussion in which the representative can take the floor in the next case. But what I want to underline is, if the Progress Party had used its power, we could actually have put the opera to the Western Railway. Then all the construction around the project had fallen away. That part of the responsibility must actually be included in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e908	I really wasn't going to take any lines at the Council of State, because we're pretty much in agreement with the party of the Council of State and the other government parties about the remarks about the opera. We largely agree on both progress, arrangements and cost frameworks. What made me speak, however, was the polemic between the Advance Party and the Council of State in terms of the cost of the opera. Because, of course, it is quite right as the Progress Party says, that this costs money. And it is quite right – as the Progress Party also says – that this is money that is going to go at the expense of someone else. It's not that 3 billion kroner in a budget are not noticed in relation to other areas. You have to choose, and you have to prioritize. For the Workers' Party, it's a deliberate choice. We want to spend this money on opera, because we believe that a new opera house will be important both for the city of Oslo, for the nation of Norway, and not least for the art forms that will play out in this new house. When the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have agreed on a children's home package of SEK 5 billion, the government parties require that every single krone should be assigned cover for: Where have the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party intended to take this money from? It's called for a presentation. Today, there is another constellation that stands together – the government parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – about a cost of about DKK 3 billion for a new opera. In the discussions that have taken place in our committee in connection with the coverage of the 3 billion, there has never been any claim from the government parties that these same parties should also indicate where the money is to be taken from. Of course not – we find that in each year’s budget. Even if we have alternative budgets, we'll figure out how to pay the Opera in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e922	It is right, as the representative Giske says, that it costs money and that it has to be paid. Of course, we have also set up a progress plan in relation to the future budget to cover the costs of the construction project. I don't know if I fully understand the question, but what worries me is that the Storting should make one decision after another, as well as for example. the decision that we are making today, and one that is to be found for everyone. What I need to know then is that no majority on Stortinget other than what the government party is currently in is going to make so many precious decisions that we cannot find a total impact, for example. also for the operation. It may bother me more than just getting space for the Opera in the budget for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e929	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e932	As I pointed out in the reply to the Council of State, the price tag for the construction of a new opera has had a clear tendency to increase more than what can be explained by the price increase. It started with an estimate of DKK 1.4 billion in January 1998, and then it turned out to be DKK 1.8 billion, and then it went beyond NOK 2 billion in the 2001 budget proposal. Now the price is up to $3 billion. So there's more than one double in four years. And still you're six years away from the opening show! Does anyone know what the final price tag will be? We in the Progress Party do not believe that. This isn't just about a new building for the Opera. It's about new buildings, infrastructure and road solutions for a whole part of the city. Only the roads are estimated at NOK 2.8 billion. This would give a total price tag of over NOK 6 billion. But, as I said in my exchange of lines with the Council of State, serious actors such as ECON and HolteProchekt have estimated it at DKK 10 billion and well above that. When you look at these huge increases in price, it will be directly irresponsible to start building a new opera. I'm tracking further high-cost overruns. One thing is the investments, something else, that we have forgotten in the debate, are the operating costs. The Opera currently has revenues of approx. Thirty-five million. kr per. years, while they have 192 million. kr in government subsidies, according to the annual report. The construction of new operas will lead to significant increases in operating costs. The Minister of Culture estimates the increase to 45-50 million. kr, but there is considerable uncertainty about this estimate. State buildings have warned of a higher level of management, operation and maintenance costs by letter of 15 January this year. And the Opera has called for more and better storage space in the consultation with the Committee. The progressing party will predict that even in the case of operations, we will have great exceedances. So to the more principal considerations: From the fundamental point of view of the Progress Party on what is the task of public authorities, and the rational disposal of the tax payments of the population, we cannot support such a large investment in a new building for the Opera. Opera is a field of culture that is based on an interest from a very small part of the population, and especially the capital population. We have major public responsibility tasks that remain unresolved in Norway. This includes, inter alia: the case in the health sector, within school, transport and defence. It is also true that opera and ballet have no strong traditions in Norway. It is therefore naive to believe that the Opera will act as a magnet on humans in an urban area as per. Today there is a very limited activity. The Progress Party believes that the political parties involved in the implementation of an opera project have a responsibility to find sensible solutions and to choose them. You should look at new moments and recordings that could have realized a cheaper alternative. I noted that the committee's chairman, the representative, Sjøli, claimed in his opening speech that the Progress Party was in favour of the population in this matter. I have also recorded that a barely majority of the Norwegian people in a survey have said that they want an opera. I think the answer would have been different if they had got the real question that we in Stortinget are facing: whether we want opera or money for school and nursing homes. Otherwise I have to say that reaches 40 pst. by the people of Norway in a poll say that they support the view of the Progress Party on a matter, we are very pleased with it. After all, we're not up to 40 pst. on the gallupeen – yet. So to the attempt both by the Council of State and by the committee leader to shift responsibility for the election of Bjørvika to the Progress Party. The advance party was against the Bjørvika elections, we were against the West Railway, and we voted against it. The logic that someone who has voted against an alternative is responsible for it being elected, I think only attend Christian People's Party and Right national meetings. Finally, as stated in the suspension, the Progress Party will vote against the proposal to consent to the construction of the Opera in Bjørvika. We believe that the project as a whole should be re-evaluated both in terms of location, size and use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e955	We hope that none of the arrangements in the new opera building will be as tame as the performance here in Stortinget today. What's special about famous and dear opera performances is that we know pretty much how they end: basically it's about someone dying. In this case no one is going to resign at death in the last act, on the contrary: today the Opera is going to get a final approval stamp, it's through the loop, from here there's no way back, from now on it's just doing the job of traveling and filling the new building. There's a big job to do, there's going to be a building, we've been through a competition, we've got a great project, and that means a lot. It is gratifying to note that the sceptics from the 1998 debate were wrong. Per-Kristian Foss said at the time that he was convinced that an opera localization to Bjørvika would also be equally good cultural policy. Had it been crucial for the development of Bjørvika, he would have said that it had been a good alternative, but he was not at all convinced of that. Now we can say that the pessimists were wrong at the time. The optimists were right, and that must be a great message all the way on the sunshine of a long summer vacation. I'm for opera in Bjørvika, but first of all, I'm for opera. Opera initiates emotions, opera gives freezes on the back and tears in the eye hook in a completely different way from similar reactions to the articles of the Advance Party in a cultural debate. It's important that we get a new building. It is important that we focus on opera. We can't afford to spend money on culture or on opera, says the Progress Party, which has much more than enough money for tax havens, for road development and for defence. But what kind of society would it be if we were to wait until all shipowners had received zero tax before we could afford opera performances, where the music schools had to take sky-high proportions until all the roads were built, and we couldn't go and see great ballet before all the new fighter planes were in the hangar? It would be a poor society when the theater groups disappeared, when the musical tones stopped, and when the libraries closed. Fortunately, it is a clear majority in the Committee on Culture that wants to invest in culture and that will build a new opera. But this must not just be a discussion about a building. There's got to be a discussion about what it's built to fill in. Not only must there be a bet on putting carpenters, masons, electricians and engineers to travel the construction of the opera building, but there must be just as much a bet on singers, composers, musicians, dancers and instructors who are going to fill this house with amazing art. If we don't at the same time manage to make a raise for the content bet, this built will be a failure. It's only if we can build and at the same time build art that this will lift Norway as a cultural nation. I'm convinced we have the cancers we're going to have. I am convinced that we have the many great talents and idealists who can fill this building, but they also depend on our efforts. The decision we are going to make tonight – or rather last night – will be a handshake to all the idealists who have for many years kept alive in the opera and ballet culture in Norway under relatively poor conditions and poor conditions. The decision taken is a well-deserved handshake for those who work in the Opera and in the National Ballet – those who want to further develop these forms of art. They deserve that. It also deserves all of us who in the future are going to go into this house and rejoice over the beauty, the warmth and the joy of life that the ballet and the operatons will give us. I also believe that it will be an enrichment, not only for this city, but for the whole country – not only to come here and experience the art, but also by the fact that the experience and what is being done here, and what is being developed here, will be enriching for people who run ballets, who run operas, who run with these art forms across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e970	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e973	It was good to hear that the representative Giske did not condemn us to death in the last act, but probably he needs us later this evening. Now I'm terribly sorry to hear that the Progress Party has no cultural policy. Then I have to ask how many of the representatives have cared about reading our program and looking at what we've done in the last few years of cultural life. We have a cultural policy – a good cultural policy. I was actually wondering if I heard right when Trond Giske started talking about the Progress Party not distributing money to cultural life, for who was it that, together with the Workers' Party and SV, gave greater freedom to the performers? Who has agreed to a significant increase in cultural resources for broad culture using tipping agents, together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party? And where was the rest – those who have thrown a lot of lipstick during this debate on our lack of cultural policy? Where were they? The representative of Torny Pedersen is absolutely right. We want to take care of boats. In fact, the opera boat has striped me too. But we want to take care of boats and safe sailboats and other cultural historical values – not to settle down ashore, but because it is they and probably we who have a tough course. At least we have not received support for our proposals, either from the Right or the Left. And I have to say, it was spectacular to hear the Central Party say that there is going to be one opera in Norway. What do all the district operas feel, believe, when they hear this from a district friendly party? No, spread these opera investments beyond the whole country to the delight of most people. I hope this will be the last time we hear that the Progress Party has no cultural policy. In any case, I would like to encourage the representatives to read our programme first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e984	First of all, I would like to take the floor again to attack the idea of opera as an elite art. The municipality of Oslo arranged an open-air opera under the Crown Prince's wedding. It was trash rain – and 30,000 spectators! I'm sure the operator doesn't agree. He thought there were more. At Easter I was in Budapest, a city of widespread poverty among people living there. But people are proud of their culture. When I went into their Opera, I saw clearly that the man standing in front of me in the ticket queue had both worn coat and blank strap on his hat. But he was very proud in his back when he went into the Opera. In St. Petersburg there is great poverty, but they use billions to clean up their cultural buildings because they want proof of the country's pride, on the land as a cultural nation and the country as a driving force in culture. We must break the Norwegian traditions. In the Middle Ages, we did it. We built Nidarosdomen, we built Akershu's fortress and some more. But of all — absolutely all — monumental buildings built in Norway in the last hundred years, it is largely just Oslo City Hall that was implemented as it was intended. The Ministry of Finance stands there as a small fool of a large construction project that was planned as a government building. The castle is just a centerpiece in relation to a very difficult building you really would have thought of. Yes, sail The Storting was thought much differently, with a much nicer entrance than the one you got. Every time you started building, you started saving. But we have a town hall here that's amazing, and we have a national theater, which is built by private people, and that's why it became what it was originally supposed to be. Now I think we're going to break the pattern of beauty building in Norway by actually being able to carry out a building like we dream of, and like we have visions of and want it to be. Then we actually get some construction that's left behind, and we can guide people around the city and not just say that the castle is one third of what we thought, but that the Opera is just like we dreamed it would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1002	This debate is coming to an end. There have been many articles, and they may have been a little bit more marked by testimony than they have been in the debate. Such debates tend to be like this – without lines and with relatively large consensus. The representative Woldseth from the Progress Party had a dedicated first post. I noticed that she said that the bill has grown almost inconspicuously. It's probably an experience we're constantly doing with bills – whether it's electricity or insurance – that they're growing inconspicuously. But in this case, we can't say that it has grown inconspicuously, because the Progress Party has certainly helped to tell us constantly that it is increasing. I'm not going to go into all of these arguments. I understand that the Progress Party does not like to be reminded that they do not want to bet on culture. As far as opera is concerned, it's probably just to show that a large majority in this house, with the support of a broad majority of the people, wants us to build this house. Then I see no intention of going into all of these number discussions that the Progress Party adds up to. I also just want to remind the Progress Party – and I know they don't like to hear that either, but I say it anyway – that if they had voted for opera on the West Railway in their time, we might well have gotten the Opera for the increase that the Progress Party is talking about today. I want to quote about this with the Advance Party and the use of public money. I have also realized that this is not what has to do with money, which is the problem for the Progress Party. In this context, I would like to quote how the representative Stolt-Nielsen so aptly expressed it in a reply in a previous operating debate here in the Chamber. She said, ‘The party has something amazing about it: when we talk about culture, it’s the taxpayers’ money. But when we talk about other things that the Progress Party wants to prioritise very high, yes, then there is oil money." As I stressed in my first post, it is positive to note that the interest in opera and ballet has been increasing in recent years. It is therefore also positive – I would like to stress what I too – that the Ministry has come so far in the development of a national plan for the dissemination of opera and ballet, that this will be part of the discussion on the Culture Communication. Yes, I would like to thank everyone who has been involved in the debate in these years. I think it has been a enriching experience to be the leader of this process in Stortinget, and I am pleased with the broad consensus it has finally become about this project, which is obviously also due to the fact that the framework proposed is acceptable within a strict framework. I also think that is very good for the continuation of this important cultural project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1020	The representative Lånk managed to provoke the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to ask for the floor again. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1024	I can promise the representative Lånke that the Progress Party has, and will continue to have, as a policy that when we are for something, we vote for it, and when we are against something, we vote against it. If we had been for opera on the West Railway, we would have voted for the West Railway. The situation was that we were against Bjørvika and against the West Railway, so we voted against both proposals. If the Right Party and the Christian People's Party had been against Bjørvika – as it works on several posts today as they actually are – they should have voted against this out of respect for their own voters and respect for the Stortinge. Putting the blame on the Advance Party for the choice of Bjørvika is at best syllable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1031	Michael Momyr, please. No, Olemic Thommes – I'm sorry! That's what happens when the representatives don't sit in their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1034	It is good that we have such an observant president that he still keeps his names in order. I just want briefly to take the word to the representative Knudsen's last post. So the right-hand side voted against the location of the Opera in Bjørvika. But it is actually that sometimes you lose some battles, and then you have to take responsibility for bringing the shot well to the port. That's what the right is doing. We see that it was Bjørvika, and we see that there are great challenges in that context. We're going to help make the best of it, not run away with – if I'm sorry – fairly cheap points and endlessly how hopeless and difficult this option actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1041	With all probability, it's going to be an opera. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[See page 3232]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1059	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. Since it's been a long time tonight, the President will recommend that you don't necessarily use all the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1072	I realize it's about being sober. I'll try not to use all the speaking time. I would like to start by stressing that the issue we are now dealing with is one that will have completely different dimensions than the opera house issue, which we have just debated. Many will link these matters, understandably enough. But in the broad context of the development of the district of Bjørvika, the opera house becomes only one of many buildings. Maybe it'll be the most monumental -- someone's been talking about the jewel in Bjørvika. But a development of this entire large area will be a very long canvas to bleach. It will represent the largest urban development project so far in Norway. However, the size shall not take account of either the progress plan or the scale of the costs of this project. The biggest thing to do tonight is to treat St.meld. No 28, which primarily clarifies the future role of the country in the development of Bjørvika. In this context, I would like to point out that the planning of the urban development project in Bjørvika had started several years before the preliminary work on the construction of an opera house started. Thus, this development could have been decided on an entirely independent basis. When the Stortinget decided in the spring of 1999 that the new opera building should be located in Bjørvika, the Stortinget decided that the opera house project should be carried out independently of further road and urban development and on the basis of a separate regulatory plan. There is reason to understand that many representatives in the United Kingdom, in particular from other parts of the country, were anxious that the opera project would succeed in a large urban development project and end up in an economic downfall. That many were, and may still be, afraid that this could also be at the expense of state investment in other parts of the country, especially in the road sector, is also understandable. The position, which has been discussed by two committees, both the Family, Cultural and Administrative Committee and the Committee on Transport, has therefore made clear reservations on this point. Now, at the same time, it's clear that when we plan a new monumental building that the Opera is going to be in this area, it would be very unfortunate both for the Opera and for this whole part of Oslo if this building were located in a crossroads and without an established urban and infrastructure in the surrounding environment. The government had taken the consequence of this in the big paper on the basis of which the opera decision was taken in spring 1999, St. pp.. No 48 for 1998-99. This proposition states that the construction of opera houses in Bjørvika must be subject to a permanent urban development in the area. However, this was not included in the decision to cancel the purchase, on the contrary. Therefore, there is no more binding than opera in the decision to build opera houses. St. Report. No 28 is therefore based on an agreement of June 2001, concluded between the State, the Municipality of Oslo and the landowners of the area. And to quote from the message: ‘... to negotiate a joint ownership company for all the undeveloped areas of the Bjørvika area subject to a process which ensured the necessary clarification of the framework conditions in the form of contributions to infrastructure and propulsion of the infrastructure conversion necessary for the development of the area’. Furthermore, the notification sets out the agreement that was subsequently reached both with regard to the establishment of a property company and with regard to the clarification of what its liability is intended to cover. The role of the State in this context is confined mainly to two different responsibilities. One concerns financial and implementing responsibilities for the national road conversion and the other concerns the organisation of the framework conditions for Oslo Havnevesen, such as: includes the port service's ability to enter into the ordinary ownership of an extension company. The last case is mainly covered by the legislative proposal under consideration in the Committee on Transport, which concerns amendments to the Law on Ports and Waterways, cf. Ot. pp. No 90, and I'm referring to this. The responsibilities of the State with regard to the national road system affect several aspects. In that opinion, the Committee underlined the barrier between the city and the fjord. With a traffic load of 100000 vehicles per the road contributes greatly to the area’s high noise load and exposure to relatively high concentrations of air pollution. There is reason to point out that the country has contributed differently to the seizure of significant land in such a central urban area, which could be used for other purposes of development. The proposed national road conversion is a clear prerequisite for the realisation of the further urban development plans. With this in mind, the Government has recommended that the State take part in the road conversion costs, with the demolition of existing traffic facilities, the construction of lower tunnels and the establishment of associated cross-resolution. The government therefore proposes that 350 million be allocated. kr over the State budget within the framework already proposed in advance in the national transport plan. Well, this would be 150 million. kr less than originally proposed in the NTP framework. Furthermore, it is proposed that an additional 800 million be allocated. kr over its own line in the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget, which comes as a special supplement to the road budget, without being at the expense of the framework of the national transport plan. The Committee emphasises as a pre-requisite that these funds should be in addition to full compliance with the objectives for the period 2002 to 2005. As regards the choice of solution options, the Government of the Proposition has proposed the construction of a lower tunnel. There is reason to stress that a refurbishment of the national road system will, regardless of the solution options, represent a very complex road system. The Committee has noted that several alternative solutions have been considered by the State Road Administration and that priority has been given to the safety and technical aspects of the choice of alternatives undertaken. I refer you here to the Committee's comments. The financing plan for the conversion of the national road is outlined in the proposal. In addition to the State share, user financing represents the largest share, estimated at 1200 million. kr. The rest is thought to be financed by the sale of national road shares, $300 million. NOK 150 million, as well as a grant from the Municipality of Oslo. kr. In total, the preliminary estimate amounts to DKK 2.8 billion. In this context, it should be emphasised that this package is part of a negotiated agreement in which the country’s share must be seen as its contribution to the start-up of the urban development process. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government of the Proposition will see other projects in the Oslo region and their realisation in the light of the Government's objective that the Oslo region should not grow faster than – and at the expense of – the rest of the country. I am pleased that the Government has received support from a broad majority of the Committee and from the Committee on Transport on the content of the notification. The Progress Party has promoted its own proposals. Both the Progress Party and the Center Party have submitted their own comments in the setting, and I am counting on these parties to explain their positions themselves. I am also aware that individual representatives in my own party, in connection with this national road conversion, have wanted a different funding model than the one outlined in the notification, and therefore want to announce this by voting against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1113	It has been a long time and sometimes a complicated way to go as far as the development of Bjørvika is concerned. It is therefore a pleasure to note that the pieces have gradually begun to fall into place. Conversion of the national road system has always been an important prerequisite for the development of the area and was part of the premise back to the treatment of Oslopackak 1. I have seen that the Stortinget has always been crystal clear in relation to the fact that the opera project was to be carried out independently of the other road and urban development programme, while seeing that a new opera house in Bjørvika had to require urban development. It is important to stress the independence of matters while being able to see the reasonable context. It is in the context that we can see the reasonable and rational solutions and the economic benefits of the development of Bjørvika. I'm recording that a minority in the committee has obviously had trouble seeing this. The Opera House is already debated, and I am not going to spend time in my post commenting on it. I want to focus on the road project and Oslo Havn's role in future urban development. In the context of Oslopacket 1 in 1988, the basis for the conversion of the national road system in Oslo was laid, with a view to urban development. For Oslo, it was quite clear from the beginning that this would mean that Oslo also assumed a great financial responsibility. The present proposal will meet the conditions laid down in 1988. The cost framework outlined in the statement amounts to NOK 2.8 billion. This cost is intended to be financed by the sale of freed-up road areas, a total of 300 million. kr, tolls equivalent to DKK 1.2 billion, additional government appropriations of DKK 1.15 billion and an additional grant from Oslo of SEK 150 million. kr. The municipality of Oslo will also grant a loan of up to 300 million. kr to the infrastructure company of Bjørvika. In addition, the Municipality of Oslo will undertake to ensure the necessary social infrastructure in the area and to ensure the necessary progress in the development of Bjørvika within the parts of the process that can be managed and affected by the municipality, in order to enable the development to take place within 10-12 years. In total, these amounts are significant. The fact is, therefore, that all parties involved have followed up the necessary obligations so that the project with a satisfactory route solution in the area can be realised. The main basis for urban development is attached to the majority proposal. So there are also assumptions that are formulated in St.prp. No 48 for 1988-1989 on urban development in Bjørvika. In the past, Oslo City Council and Oslo Port Board have adopted guidelines for the development of Oslo Port. These decisions involve the relocation of the container port from parts of today’s port areas. The decommissioned areas have been subject to inclusion in the urban development plan for Bjørvika. However, today’s Port and Water Law § 23 has not opened up the possibility of converting port areas to other than port-based activities. This provision has been an important management instrument to prevent a port fund from being tapped for purposes that could in the long term weaken natural and healthy development in ports. For Oslo port, this has been a crucial point, considering that Oslo port has always been a national port. However, Oslo port has experienced, like all other ports around the world, changes that have changed the requirements of port areas, and it is this development that provided the basis for the decision taken by the Municipality of Oslo, which I referred to earlier, and which provided the basis for a possible redeployment of port areas. In Ot.prp. No 90 The Government promotes a proposal to amend Section 23 of the Port and Water Law, which will allow ports to relocate port areas for purposes other than port purposes. A majority of the Committee on Transport has agreed to the Government's proposals. Will this amendment bring ports into an impossible situation, where the port fund may be subject to bottling or involved in speculative property projects? To that is to say a clear no. The port register will continue to have control and ensure that port area values will continue to be used for port-related purposes in the future. It is this fact that underpins the constructive and pragmatic role of Oslo Port Government have played in the process. The road until what we are invited to decide today has been long. An important condition for us to be able to pass the obstacles we have encountered on the road has been that the state has had a clear role as a coordinator. It is my opinion that the state must still have such a role. I would therefore ask the Council of State to ensure that the State, through its authority, can continue to ensure that all the parties involved are given an opportunity to continue positive participation in the further work, and to safeguard their interests through the property company of Bjørvika that will be established. This applies not least to Oslo Harbour. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate both the nation and Oslo on having a new landmark that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1132	‘Where sea and land meet in sharp contrast, there is always a strong sense of beauty,’ said Harald Hals in 1929. ‘Oslo, on the other hand,’ he continues, ‘turns his back towards his most beautiful jewelry’, namely fjord. It's been more than 70 years since Harald Hals made his famous statement. Unfortunately, today's validity is even greater than that. Oslo has a more than 12 kilometers of pier front that makes fjord inaccessible to most people. Right wants a development that includes the population and fjord in a completely different way. Dwellings, the development of businesses with environmentally friendly jobs and recreational areas available to all must guide the development of Norway’s most central area. Empty containers must be able to be stowed elsewhere. The development of Bjørvika poses specific road challenges. Daily it passes approx. 100 000 cars across the area, and it goes without saying that regardless of the issue of the location of the Opera, we need to find significantly better environmental solutions in terms of air pollution, noise and environmental considerations. The most important step here is the construction of the lower tunnel through Bjørvika, which will mainly lead the transit traffic out of the area. This means about today. 80 pst. of traffic. This solution will significantly improve traffic flows and will be of great positive importance both for normal drivers and for business. The lower tunnel is, as far as possible, demonstrated as a feasible project where safety is placed in the high-seat. Other solutions have also been evaluated, but have been rejected due to functional conditions or price. There has been some uncertainty about the financing of the national road conversion. The government parties have made it clear in their comments that we assume that the Bjørvika project will not be at the expense of other road projects outside the Oslo area. We take full account of the achievement of the national transport plan for the period and refer in this context to the Sem Declaration's objectives of increasing road appropriations. Let me add here that I am concerned about the high percentage of tolls that are to be charged here. However, when I accept the solution that it is offered, it is because I see the great gains we achieve both in relation to the environment and in relation to the traffic flow through the city. The progress party is here on the wrong track if they try to claim that the Bjørvika tunnel will not have a positive effect on traffic. It's probably enough to show what joy the drivers and the environment have had of the Fortress Tunnel and the Ekeberg Tunnel to confirm it. The Opera is an important building block in the development of the Bjørvika area. Both built in itself and the activities resulting from the operation around the Opera will be a catalyst for activity and renewal. This is the best way we can get to create a new and exciting city in the capital. The interaction between cultural activities and urban development is well known from many examples around the world: the Sydney Opera, Finlandia House in Helsinki or the Bilbao Guggenheim Museum, to name a few. It's in the light of this little bit of sympathy to read the comments of the Progress Party, which says that you can't use a monofunctional house, they mean the Opera, as a starting point for urban development. All the experience tells us that this is wrong, and it's strange that the Progress Party is all sidelined in relation to the social development we see all over the Western world. I'm glad that the state with the Bjørvika project is taking responsibility for releasing land in the Oslo Centre. For too many years, the state has linked large areas, and unfortunately contributed significantly to their pollution. Now it has to be cleaned up! These port areas are to be cleansed of many decades of environmental sins and areas are to be developed and returned to the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1155	I have registered today that the representatives of the Right spend an incredible amount of their speaking time talking about the views of the Progress Party in these matters. It might well be a good idea to have spent a little more time presenting your own policy, and rather let us present our policy. The progress party believes it is wrong to use a single building, as an opera, as a starting point for the development of a whole city, in this case Bjørvika. We who have worked in municipal policy for some time know that urban development is a rather complex exercise. Starting with a simple construction is starting at the wrong end. The Party opposes the construction of the proposed new road solutions. User-funded solutions are directly unfair, as the project does not come as a direct consequence of traffic needs or user considerations. It is true that Norwegian car users are already heavily taxed, with a total of 40 billion kroner in fees every year. In the evening post on 10 May, the road manager in Oslo announced an increase of the bomb charges to NOK 20 from New Year’s. Protests have come from NAF and from some of Oslo’s politicians, and protests have started on the Internet. The progress party clearly says no to the increase of the bomb tariffs. The fact is that traffic operates relatively satisfactorily in Bjørvika–Bispevika, and the enormous additional costs of new traffic solutions resulting from the opera project cannot be defended for reasons of traffic. Otherwise, the party of progress also exceeds in this case, not only in the case of the opera building itself, which we dealt with in the previous case. I have registered that a price tag on the road and infrastructure has been set at NOK 2.8 billion. But there are also others who have calculated this. According to estimates from HolteProject and ECON, they have reached a price of at least DKK 8.5 billion, as I mentioned in the previous case. There is also a problem with regard to the time aspect of this matter. The date of completion of the Opera has been set to 2008, but traffic solutions may take another eight years. In other words, a public-friendly facility can only be expected in 2016. This is the background for the Progress Party to oppose this project. We have corresponded to something with the Council of State Norman about the alleged agreement between the landowners to establish a joint development company in this case, because we have registered that there are several representatives on the board of ports who have pointed out that the arrangement is suffering from significant weaknesses. So great is the scepticism that the port administration, with seven to four votes on 13 June, adopted an opinion that included: is: «Oslo Havnevesen looks very seriously at the situation that has now arisen in the context of the development of the Bjørvika area.The governance of the Hav shows great uncertainty in the further development of the Bjørvika area, including the development of a possible. HAV Property Company.’» It was only after there had been talks between the minority in the port administration and the state council, and that it was called to a crisis meeting at 0 p.m. 21 in the evening when the Council of State met and put the weight on the change in the decision of the Port Government. One might wonder if this is a typical act of a state council in a case where, according to what has been submitted in writing to the Stortinget, claims that there is a broad consensus. I will end by addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1187	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1190	In this case, as in the previous case, SV is part of the majority of the committee, and in order to save some speaking time, I will refer to the case rapporteur Lånkes' detailed introduction and also Froy's descriptions, to which I can largely agree. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the case rapporteur, Ola T. Länn for both this case and the previous cases, for a good process in important and comprehensive matters. The idea of the development of Bjørvika is exciting. It's about to be a huge lift to develop an area in the capital that's been neglected for a long time. It is now likely that many good forces are moving in the same direction. This is where the capital of Norway was located about 1,000 years ago. As roads and crossings are removed, the ruins of the Middle Ages have also appeared, and the Medieval Park is established as a great area for recreation, cultural events and festivals. So, the area is a great and natural place for a monumental building like the new opera. The lower tunnel plan is, as I see it, a prerequisite for both the location of the Opera and the further development of Bjørvika as a city. It is therefore essential and positive that the lower tunnel can now become a reality as a sprawl layer between state, municipality and users. It is also great with the broad consensus and understanding that it is too precisely this project in the Committee. Bjørvika is so far the city of opportunity. As usual, there are many different interests and opinions associated with such a project. On the part of SV, it would have been desirable for the municipality to be a heavy partner in the project, not least in view of the overall development of the site. I'm critical of a corporate structure that will give private investors too much influence. However, when this has not been the case, we believe it is important for the municipality to use its regulatory authority, order regulations and other instruments in order to steer further development. On the SV side, we want a city with a high proportion of housing – and in this context we do not necessarily talk about high housing – and solutions that focus on the environment. It's also important that standard and design don't make it just those with the most money that can take this part of the city, like we do. then in the development of Aker Brygge. Another SV requirement in this context is that a proportion of reasonable rental dwellings are included in the negotiations. It is important that those who are now to take decisions in the development of Bjørvika as a city take into account the Opera and the Medieval Park as the precursor to the development of the urban district.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1207	St.meld. No 28 for 2001-2002, the development of Bjørvika, is much about road development in Bjørvika. In my post, I want to focus on this very side of Bjørvika's development. In the national transport plan, it was found that the Bjørvika project is essentially an urban development project with relatively little to say for traffic management. We can all be sure that the road system in Bjørvika today is a traffic machine that is not particularly beautiful to look at, but that, after all, works quite well for the traffic. If you look at the road conversion in Bjørvika based on traffic economic profitability, the net benefit of the project will be poor. If this project were to be given priority in terms of road economic profitability, the project would come down well on the priority list in the Oslo area. In St.meld. No 28 a financing plan for the national road conversion in Bjørvika has been submitted on the basis of a cost estimate that is very uncertain. Solution selection, lower tunnel, is complex for both installation and operation. The estimate of costs is uncertain because there are difficult basic conditions, pollution in the ground, uncertainty about the extent of cultural memory and requests for high standards on the infrastructure. Only when there are approved and detailed plans and when external quality assurance of the road project is implemented can one expect uncertainty in the estimate to be reduced to about 10 pst. In other words, it is a very uncertain estimate that is leading, and therefore also a very uncertain financing plan. In the national transport plan, it was said that the Ministry of Transport would have a comprehensive funding plan before finalising its priorities for the National Road Conversion Project in Bjørvika. In St. Report. No 28 no prioritisation of this project has been said for other projects, but it is suggested that the state and the public authorities should assume the primary responsibility for the financing of the national road conversion. The government says in the message that the state's role is, among other things, shall relate to the financial and implementing responsibilities of the national road conversion. Of the cost, over DKK 1 billion will go over the state budget, 350 million. kr within the national transport plan frame and the remainder as a separate supplement to the road budget without this being at the cost of the national transport plan frame. It has also been foreseen that any increase in costs associated with the conversion of roads should be added to the national transport plan frame. What is not clear about the message is whether the Bjørvika project is now top priority, and whether this will push other projects out in time, or whether it will be made so simple that most of the cost the state will take, will come as a complement to the traffic jam. A few days ago, Stortinget debated the collective announcement. In that debate, there was a great deal of agreement that collective action should be increased. Yes, several parties thought the collective effort had to increase far beyond the government's proposal. We also know that there are many unsolved transport tasks in the Oslo area, in the central Austland and other places in the country that had sorely needed increased privileges. However, for none of these measures, there is a willingness to find means outside the national transport plan framework. The road conversion in Bjørvika is also not decisive to build the Opera. In St. pp. No 48 for 1998-1999 About a new opera house it became clear that road conversion was not necessary to build the Opera. [[II]] In the setting and the debate about the Opera, this was just underlined by all parties supporting the construction of the opera. On the other hand, it was up to 50 million. kr in order to ensure access to the operator’s service for pedestrians and road vehicles. Deceptive Minister for Culture, Anne Enger Lahnstein, said in the debate: ‘In the case of Bjørvika, the proposition is careful to clarify the prerequisites for the Government to recommend such a location in a subsidiary way. It is only a solution where the opera house is disconnected from urban development, which can be recommended.’ The centre party also sees no reason to connect these projects today. The centre party welcomes an urban development in Bjørvika. But in the plans contained in the message, there are very many uncertain elements, yes, there are more uncertain elements than is certain. Of the cost, more than DKK 1 billion will be passed on the state budget as means of transport, within or outside the national transport plan framework. Yes, the sum of the State budget may be higher if the road conversion is more expensive than the cost estimates provided. Since the road conversion in Bjørvika has little impact on the traffic development in the area, the Center Party believes that it is not right to use means of transport for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1228	The Bjørvika area is an important node with significant noise and air pollution, hitting St. meld. No Twenty-eight soberly fixed. Without becoming unparliamentary, I'll probably take a little bit stronger in. The original urban week under Ekeberg has been a garbage dump for several state missions over several decades. Bjørvika has been lying fallow for years, and may have been said to have looked like a pig's path. Full of particulate matter, heavy transport and — at least before the arrival of the new Thon hotel — with the Postgiro building as the foremost eye-catcher, surrounded by a roaring traffic machine and scrap heaps. The Bjørvika has been called the largest of all street children around the Central Railway Station, orphaned and without support. I dare say that if this area were located in any other big city in Europe, we would have long ago had a comprehensive development and development project where the municipalities, state and private interests had known to take advantage of the values that lie right here. Because here it's not anything. There is no other place in the country where there are ruins of such importance as in the Middle Ages town of Bjørvika. And with so visible and exciting remains of the power struggle state/church and king/bisp, the two centres of power of the Middle Ages, both marked by magnificent churches and castle facilities. When Bjørvika now receives the extension of support contact and Stortinget sketches a propulsion plan for the construction of a lower tunnel that removes the traffic machinery, there are also opportunities for developing a new and exciting part of the city. Yes, the entire district can actually become a historical exhibition, a visualization of the crafts of the century, urban development, living conditions and culture, an illustration of Oslo, but also Norway's identity. In order to achieve this, the majority today advocates the sharing of responsibility between the State and the drivers for the financing of the national road conversion and sees it as positive that the landowners in the Bjørvika area agree to establish a joint development company and an infrastructure company owned by it. Gradually, the district is to be developed with dwellings, with medieval museum, cafes and, of course, the beautiful opera building, which was debated in the previous case. Then we can eventually be proud of this area, as with the new main aerodrome and the flight train, in addition to Oslo S, of course, is the main gateway to Norway. So let's not forget that. This is the first impression of American tourists, of in-vehicles, of European businessmen and potential investors and entrepreneurs. It has been a long and thorough job to solve the problems associated with Oslo Havn's areas in Bjørvika. Let me just mention it very briefly. Here Oslo port is now given the opportunity to dispose of the properties of the port cashier in Bjørvika for other than port purposes, but for the best of its ports. The lower tunnel in Bjørvika and the clearances that have now arrived are a prerequisite for opening Oslo east towards the fjord – from Alna, from Ekeberg, from Akerselva and from Old Oslo. Sometime in 1995, Sissel Benneche Osvold, commentator in Dagbladet, wrote an article about Old Oslo. She wrote: The assumption for all urban development is that people become residents even in the center. It is the best response to street violence, which thrives best in empty and senseless public spaces. I can join them too. In conclusion, I would like to do as Mr Froyn did, to congratulate both the nation and Oslo on the new landmark, not to say the main gateway to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1254	I first want to assure the representative Nybakk that Bjørvika actually has a support contact. It's called the Cooperative Government, also known as the Government of Bondevik II. That's what they say. In the big news that the Stortinget is addressing today, the Government is proposing increased investment in Bjørvika to realise the development of one of the most exciting, attractive and challenging urban areas in Norway. An important part of the background to the proposals put forward by the Government is that the assumptions on the part of the Storting, after the government's assessment, would lead to the country's new opera being in a junction of 100,000 cars a day, and it could not. Nevertheless, the Opera is not the only reason, and perhaps not the main reason for proposing state involvement in the development of Bjørvika. The state has to take responsibility for the country's capital, the state has a responsibility for the environment, and the state has a clear responsibility to clean up after itself in an area that has long been destroyed by a state-built road transport machine. The Bjørvika project can be a profitable project, both socio-economic and business-economic. The business-economic gain consists of the property values that may be triggered by the development of the site. In addition, the socio-economic value includes the environmental benefits, the traffic gains, the benefits of a more attractive environment for the Opera, and the contribution Bjørvika will provide to a more exciting and well-functioning capital. This last – the capital gain – I would like to underline is a gain that will happen to the whole country. The capital does not live in and for itself. It lives in and for the country as a whole. And those of us who are not from the capital, and who do not live in the capital, have almost as much pleasure in a well-functioning capital as those who actually live here for the day. In the work on this matter, the Government has placed a great deal of emphasis on establishing a structure and a division of responsibilities that can contribute to the realisation of the project in a way that at the same time limits the responsibility of the State and the financial contribution of the State. In order for the project to be realised, the profitability of the landowners must be higher than that foreseen in previous discussions. It was not realistic to assume that landowners could pay the bulk of the costs related to national road conversion, nor was it realistic to assume that the project would be economically viable for a 20-25-year extension period. Therefore, in the scheme presented to the Stortinget, it is provided for an extension over a 10- to 12-year period and, at the same time, it is provided that the State and the road users finance the sinking tunnel and the adjacent road areas. With these assumptions, the landowners consider the project to be profitable, even when taking into account the risks associated with the project. The state's contribution to the project is three-thirds. Firstly, the state takes responsibility for the national road conversion. Secondly, Oslo Havnevesen is allowed to engage in the project while limiting its liability through the establishment of a subsidiary. Thirdly, the State has a coordinating responsibility for the parties involved and for further development in the area. The government is therefore proposing that the State assume financial and implementing responsibilities for the conversion of the national highway. It has been said in the debate that the lower tunnel has limited traffic importance. That's pretty much right, but constrained doesn't mean zero. The traffic value of the tunnel is large enough to defend a not insignificant part of the total cost, and in the context of the high environmental benefits and urban development gains involved, there is no doubt that the State’s contribution to the sink tunnel can be fully defended on a socio-economic basis. In this respect, let me also make it clear to the representative Knudsen that the DKK 2.8 billion that is the cost estimate in the paper, of course, is an estimate, but it is not such that this is an estimate that could be just as likely to be NOK 8.5 billion. The DKK 8.5 billion to which the representative Mr Knudsen refers is an estimate of the total infrastructure costs for the whole of the Bjørvika area, including all the infrastructure costs to be covered by the landowners, and partly by the Municipality of Oslo. So this has nothing to do with the number $2.8 billion. The difference between DKK 8.5 billion and DKK 2.8 billion is a rough estimate of the infrastructure costs actually to be borne by people other than Oslo and road users. There is something in itself about the value that others attach to this project. In order not to go beyond other road projects as far as is strictly necessary, the Government, as mentioned above, wants funds for the State budget project to be substantially added to the NTP framework. What lies within the NTP framework is what can be defended on a purely traffic-related basis. In addition, the Government proposes that the citizens of the city and surrounding areas take their share of the bill through a high level of user funding, a high proportion compared to other road projects in the country, and which we must bear in mind are extra high, taking into account the fact that the citizens of Oslo are going to do here, are involved in financing an urban development that really benefits the whole country. The Progress Party has asked questions as to whether the landowners really support the consensus referred to in the Storing Communication, expressed in concrete terms in the Declaration of Will of the Municipality of Oslo and the Landowners respectively. In order not to be further speculated about this, I, as the representative Knudsen had in mind, took the end of last week's initiative for a conversation with the parties involved. I also had a meeting with Oslo Port Government. I think it's fair and reasonable, with the big interests at stake here, that when the parties want a conversation with the Council of State, I'll set up. I would like to make it clear that during the meeting with Oslo Port Board I did not put the weight on – it would not have been great to contribute, with my 72 kg. What I did, on the other hand, was to answer questions from the Oslo Port Board, and in particular questions relating to whether the state was willing to continue to take a coordinating responsibility for the further development of the case. And I could confirm that. I would also like to make it clear that the Port Board reiterated without reservation its statement of intent, after they had thus expressed the deep concern of the representative Knudsen earlier this day. The concern was no greater than that they so clearly and unequivocally repeated their declaration of intent the same evening. I can therefore assure the Storting that all parties are in favour of their declarations of intent, and that there is therefore a willingness to resolve the questions that remain unresolved in line with the instructions given in the notice and in the printed attachments. In this respect, I can also assure the Storting that my department will follow this matter closely, and that the Ministry of Labour and Administration will coordinate the work on the necessary agreements that need to be put in place during 2002, as a result of the Storting's agreement to the notification. It was just supposed to be missing! As the State Council that has brought the matter before Stortinget, it is my responsibility to ensure that the conditions of the case are met, and that the case is followed up in a proper manner. Let me conclude by saying that the Government is very pleased that it has been possible to reach agreement between the landowners, the Municipality of Oslo and the State, an agreement that ensures the development of an exciting area. I would also like to say that there has been a very positive attitude on the part of all parties – Oslo Port Government, the Municipality of Oslo and the private landowners – and it has been a willingness to find a good agreed solution for an area that deserves to be gathered on the task. It will be very exciting to see developments that will lead to the country’s capital being given a living part of the area that caused the country’s capital to take its old name back in 1925 over the course of 10–15 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1292	I think it's nice that the Council of State now essentially confirms my, ECON and HolteProchekt's claim that this whole thing will cost Norwegian society $8.5 billion in addition to the costs of the opera building itself. The Council of State is an avid follower of increased car taxes. Among the drivers, there is a significant concern about what the opera and Bjørvika development will cost them. The road manager in Oslo has already outlined the increase to NOK 20 from the new year. This is just the beginning. So what's going to be the next one-- $30, $50? What does the Council of State see as the result of this project the increase in tolls in Oslo? And where will he say stop? After all, according to the articles of the Council of State, this is a project of limited importance, in order to quote his own point of view in the paper. With regard to the situation in Oslo Port Government, I just have to refer to my main post and note that the Port Government saw significant weaknesses in the project on 13 June, when the Council of State, in a letter to the Progeny Group of 11 June, had said that it was a broad consensus. I won't go deeper into the matter, but just notice that I think it's a bit of a funny time, at 5 p.m. 21 in the evening, to meet with Oslo Port Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1301	Since the clock is now 22, I'm not going to comment on the last observation by the representative of Knudsen. When it comes to the question of what the total cost would be, let me make it clear: Yes, this is a big investment project. There's a terrible lot to do. No one has said that there is no significant investment involved for the parties concerned. The only question is: how much are taxpayers and road users required to bear? So they should not be charged NOK 8.5 billion. They will be charged costs, estimated at a total of around DKK 2.8 billion, for a solution that will provide a better traffic solution, which will allow the development of a part of the city, and which will also involve cleaning up the garbage that traffickers and the state have left behind in Bjørvika in the past. I would like to clarify: I am not a special member of the car tax system. I am in favour of having user funding and taxes to the extent necessary to finance what is reasonable joint activities in Norway. But I am very much in favour of the polluter paying. So in this case, the road user and the state have to pay in excess of the traffic value, largely the pollution they have caused to the area today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1310	In St. pp. No 48 for 1998-1999 Renewed opera house made it clear that road conversion was not necessary for the construction of operas. [[II]] This was underlined in the setting and during the debate on the Opera from all parties supporting the opera construction. The national transport plan identified the Bjørvika project as an urban development project. It was also said that the Ministry of Transport will have a comprehensive funding plan before taking a position on the priorities of the National Road Planning Project in Bjørvika. St. Message No. On the other hand, 28 do not say anything about prioritising this project against other projects, but it is clear that a ‘special supplement in the road budget has to be granted without this at the expense of the NTP framework’. The Council of State also underlined this in its statement, and any increase in costs shall be added to the national transport plan’s framework. Normal transport policies around the whole country are to be given priority within a divided framework. For example, if we: in Møre and Romesdal or in other racial groups prioritize racial protection, it goes beyond the soft road users and the construction of pedestrian and cycle roads, because the frame does not extend. So my question to the Council of State is, Is the Bjørvika project top priority? And will this push other projects out in time? In the case of which project? Or is it so simple that this brief and good comes as an addition to the travel frame? And if the latter is the case, what will it take for other parts of the country that experience night road connections and racially dangerous school grounds to get off the grid to realize their projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1326	It is not common – I had almost said unfortunately – to put transport projects into the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget. When the arrangement here is exceptional that the main gravity of the State's contribution to the sinking tunnel will actually come above a different budget than that of the Ministry of Transport, it is precisely to indicate that this is about much more than transport. It's about urban development, it's about cleaning up, and it's about getting an environment for the Opera. This means, of course, that Bjørvika comes into competition with all other good purposes in Norway, because this government has a budgetary discipline that implies that priority should be given to something else. But it is very clear that, in addition to the pure traffic value of this tunnel, Bjørvika is not going to compete directly with other transport projects, but of course it is going to compete with all other good purposes on a general basis, which any good action in any area must do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1331	The council informed Stortinget that Oslo Havnevesen had in a way approved the existing plans. My first question to the Council of State is: Where in a port government protocol does it say anything that Oslo Havn has authorized to set up its own company, HAV Eiendom AS, with the properties located in Bjørvika? Paragraph 2: Where do the Board's protocols state that it is desirable to involve Oslo Havnevesen as an organisation through such a property company and to be the main shareholder in Bjørvika Development AS? Last Thursday at his meeting at 4 p.m. 15 took the Portevesen by seven against four votes – the head of the Port Board was among the four – the following decisions: ‘Oslo Havnevesen looks very seriously at the situation that has now arisen in the context of the development of the Bjørvika area. The Management Board of the Port Service expresses considerable uncertainty about the further development of the Bjørvika area and including the development of a possible HAV property company. The board of the port services believes that the responsibility now rests with the Government and the City Council of Oslo to make a proposal for further progress so that the decision of the Stortinge on the Bjørvika area and the decision of the City Council on the Fjordby is implemented in accordance with adopted plans. In this connection, the Port Board refers to the signals given by the Government just before Easter and the follow-up made by the Port Service. The case is otherwise for information.’ As a result of the collapse of the governor, who had suffered a considerable defeat, the state councillor Norman, State Secretary and Mayor Erling Lae, and then had a new board meeting where the only thing that happened was that the relatively meaningless declaration of will of 30 April was repeated. There is no concrete place to cover the Council of State's claims that the landowner, Oslo Havnevesen, is interested in participating in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1347	As the representative of Hagen will know, as an annex 2 to the paper, there is a statement by the Chairman of the Management Board of Oslo Portvesen and by the representative of the private landowners and other landowners, a declaration of will specifying in detail that the HaV Eiendom AS will be established. This declaration of will has been twice confirmed by the Oslo Port Board, by 13 June at the latest. I would also like to clarify that the representative Hagen's description of what happened on 13 June is directly incorrect. I had long before there was any board meeting in Oslo Port Board on 13 June, asked for a meeting with the stakeholders to get a confirmation that there were no problems before the Grand Prix. I was informed at that meeting, which was after the first meeting of the Port Board, that the Port Board was concerned about the further process. On that basis, I was invited to Oslo Port Board to clarify a number of questions. What emerged very clearly from the meeting in Oslo Port Government was that they were not concerned about what had happened so far, they were not concerned about the process until the decision of the Storting, but the concern they had was who would be responsible for coordinating the further process, because they felt that the state at this time might have thought of abdicating from the process itself. When they confirmed what I have also said in Stortinget now, that it is obvious that the state has a coordinating responsibility for the parties in the further process to follow the decision of Stortingen, they reiterated their declaration of will without any reservations but that they took note that the State wanted to coordinate the further process. So the description given by the representative Hagen of both the facts and what Oslo Port Government has or has not adopted is directly contrary to reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1357	I don't think we can clarify exactly this tonight. It will be up to the further debate that follows, what the former port director says, and what the members of the board of Oslo Harbour, who were present at both of these meetings, say. There are a lot of people here who know what happened, and I think my description is far more correct than that of the council. My question was not answered. When has the government of Oslo Portevesen ever committed in a way to Oslo Portevesen? They have a declaration of will of 30 April – which is relatively staggering in terms of reservations – repeated on Thursday evening. But I quoted the entire ruling decision, it was taken on a free basis. The proposal made by the Labour Party's board member Knut Roger Andersen thus received seven votes. It is the Chairperson who has signed this Declaration of Will that the Council of States now refers to as an annex to the Great Britain Communication. Note this: it is the Chairperson, not on behalf of and on the basis of a decision of the Governing Board. What happened on Thursday was that the chairman lost, his proposal got four votes. Another concern was given seven votes. That's why. No one was notified at the board meeting at 0 p.m. 15 o'clock that there would be a new board meeting. Twenty-one in the evening. It was because at that time the board took a decision without the enormous political pressure that saw the government parties – especially the Right – and the Labour Party came with its members on the Port Board. It was massive pressure that made it happen. Why else would a new board meeting be necessary some hours after the board had suspended its own board of directors on a free basis? Why in the world was not the Council of State and the Secretary of State and the Head of the City Council invited to the Governing Body meeting that was at 8 p.m. 15? And then I have one last question: will the Council of State guarantee that the state will never provide a guarantee for Bjørvika Development AS and all that will be of urban development work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1369	To the last question: I can't issue any guarantee as to what future governments or future magnification might find to do, but what I can guarantee, is that the government in which I sit, as long as I sit as the Council of State, will not issue such a guarantee. When it comes to the question of what has happened in Oslo Port Government, I'm actually starting to wonder if the representative Hagen is particularly well informed. Let me read the printout of the minutes of the Oslo Port Board at a meeting on 13 June, where it says – Case 48 : ‘Decision:Oslo Havnevesen is on its declaration of will of 30.4.2002. The Port Board assumes that the State takes a coordinating responsibility at the AAD for the further development of Bjørvika and that binding agreements are reached between the parties during the autumn of 2002 [[by the end of September]] What actually happened – let me just repeat it – was that I had asked for an ordinary meeting with the head of the port board, with the representative of the OSU, Bjørn Sund, and with the mayor of Oslo to get a clear insurance policy before going to Stortinget, that everything was fine. Then the head of the Port Board informed us that there was a great deal of concern in Oslo Port Government for the further process. On that basis, I said that I would be willing to ask on the Port Board if I was invited to clarify these questions. At that meeting I was made aware that there was a great deal of concern about the further process. If the representative Hagen had read the decision carefully that he read up from here, and that went on what the port administration decided in the afternoon, he would see that it went on the further process until the creation of the property company. So the concern was that there was no one who could help coordinate the further process, given that the state would be done with the decision that I hope Stortinget will take today and Odelstinget tomorrow and then Lagtinget. When this question was clarified, everyone, including the proposer of the decision taken earlier in the afternoon, expressed that they had no problems with the declaration of intent or any real concern for the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1390	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1394	In his main post, State Council Victor Norman said that the landowners, based on risk assessments, had found that this development of the city would be economically profitable and therefore had made commitments. We have now been confirmed that the commitment is a non-binding declaration of intent by the Chairperson, which has been confirmed twice by the Board of Directors, on 30 April and 13 June. I also have the protocol from which the Council of State now reads, from which it merely repeats a declaration of will – the only place in a protocol where the issue of centrality is concerned, namely that Oslo Havn should be forced – not given an opportunity, as it says in the public documents – that the properties of Bjørvika should be incorporated into a separate limited liability company, HAV Eiendom AS. It has been made clear that nothing else of the port's assets is going into that company, only the areas, with a little money subsidy also from the Municipality of Oslo and possibly other landowners. This company should, as far as I can see, be the main shareholder in Bjørvika Entwicklung AS, which will be responsible for the development work – without state guarantee as long as Victor Norman is the Council of State. Then it becomes interesting: who is going to provide a guarantee for a small company with little equity, but with some properties that might be profitable, and loan them the large funds for the development work, in the hope that the sale of the developed properties will cover all the investments? Victor Norman said that the business-economic profitability was assessed by the landowners. It would have been interesting to present the note on the business profitability of the investments from Oslo Havnevesen. It's possible the director has made one, which no one else knows about. But it is quite clear that the former director of Oslo Portvesen for many years strongly warned against this. His attitude was to sell the properties to those who were going to develop this, and let some professionals on property development stand for it. It would have been interesting if the Council of State could say when Oslo Havnevesen in the crucial bodies has been presented with a single business-economic profitability analysis which they have found satisfactory in order to deposit their properties. Of course, when it is incorporated into a limited liability company, the rest of the Port Service will not be able to be exposed. But in relation to this company analysis, which I so far see Norman is doing well, that it will be a good profit for Oslo Portevesen to be with all the development work through a subsidiary, which is again the main shareholder in Bjørvika Development: if it does not go so that it is a great profitability, if it is actually such that you lose all the money, then who is it to fund Oslo Port's further development of new container port and port relocation? Of course, the whole purpose of Oslo Harbour has been to realise its values in order to get funds to invest in the new container port to be built. Doesn't the Council at all see that here it can actually seem like you're raping these properties, if it goes wrong financially, if it's going to be a huge loss? Then the port has lost the properties that were to be realised to further expand the port. It would be interesting to see who will grant loans to Bjørvika Development, without any special equity, without a municipal guarantee, without a state guarantee in a gigantic corporate economic risk project. That's one of the reasons why we're warning against this, and of course we don't want to be involved in what I call the Theft Act, the change in the port law that's happening tomorrow, which just aims to force Oslo Havn to get a legal right to be deprived of property, which to date has not been anything but the director of Oslo Havn, who is a politician, who has gone in for it. When Oslo Portevesen really only wanted to sell its properties and not become a major shareholder in a risky urban development, why could the Council not respect the fact that the port law has always been such that it is the best thing in the port, which should be the basis for the management of the properties paid by the port users, who are consumers again? We are at risk for the future of getting an extra high port charge in Oslo because so much of their money has been lost by forced participation in a risky development and property adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1405	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1408	For one who has been a city government politician in Oslo, who is happy in Oslo, and who also has visions for the use of the Oslo Seaside, today is good. It is not right, as the representative Knudsen said, that urban development began with a single project. It's wrong. The Fjordvision came before Stortinget decided to add the Opera in Bjørvika. Unlike some other representatives, I believe that there is every reason to believe that we will succeed in the development of Bjørvika, not least because of the good cooperation climate that has developed between the Municipality of Oslo, the State and the Landowners. In fact, according to my information, this also applies between the State and the Port Service/Port Board. A unanimous port administration is behind the agreements negotiated, and it is pleased with the coordination and enforcement responsibility that Norman has assumed. All parties are pleased with his support contacts. The good thing about this fissure layer is that those who want to use the lower tunnel most have the best opportunity to enjoy opera performances and otherwise have orchestral space when a beautiful new part of the city rises, are the inhabitants of Oslo and its surroundings. We also want to contribute the most, but we get the most. The state contributes SEK 1.15 billion out of DKK 2.8 billion, i.e. 41 pst. of the costs. More attention has been paid to user financing of this project than is the case for most others. I am pleased that it is only the Progress Party that will vote against, and that does not see the enormous potential that lies in Bjørvika, and that will still have containers, noise, air pollution and closed sea edges for the population. There's not much progress in that. Because what's going on? We're getting rid of Norway's biggest junction today, which has led to significant noise and air pollution. We're getting rid of Norway's most expensive intersections measured in land costs, we're going to open Oslo against fjords, we're going to provide housing and nutrition, and we're going to create a significant cultural powerhouse. We open up important parts of our national cultural heritage to the public – the Middle Ages Park and the ruins of two churches, the Church of Mary and the Cathedral of St. Hallvard. Until now they have been hidden and partly under a motorway. It is a courageous project, which involves an important development of the country’s capital, and thus also has a national significance in addition to being a location for new opera – a magnificent building that deserves a beautiful neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1419	The case of the development of Bjørvika has, of course, also been within the transport committee. Conversion of the national road is a very central part of the development project. Regardless of the construction of the opera, the conversion of the road system in Bjørvika is desirable and will facilitate traffic diversion through Oslo. The size has been given multiple times before joining such a conversion. Having said this, there is no reason to hide that the funding of the new highway has created strong and understandable debate. Debates in the European Parliament the insecurity of costs. Lower tunnel construction is based on known technology, but complicated, and security is enhanced by poor ground conditions and ground contamination. The debate is also based on a fear that the national road conversion in Bjørvika will lead to road construction reductions in the rest of the country. These are not reactions that are culturally hostile and anti-Bjørvika, but a clear confirmation of the enormous need for a better path to save human lives and to provide growth and development in both districts and central struts. As a transport policy, I am therefore very pleased with the much-needed clarifications made by the Government and the Committee. The national road conversion should not go beyond road projects outside the Oslo area, and the Committee also suggested that the state funds for the road project should come in addition to full compliance in the period 2002-2005 as a whole. These formulations create a community of fate between Bjørvika development and road construction efforts in other countries as well. The fact that one thing is now being done completely depending on the other is the reason why the debate has stopped part of it. I hope that these arrangements will be met so that the Bjørvika tunnel can be accommodated by rolling out the national transport plan. It is in the next plan that the start of this process will be put in place, and with the commitments made by the Committee, I feel that the Transport Committee and the Stortinget have made a clear order that, without proper implementation of the objectives in the present period, there will be no national road change. But at the same time, I'm absolutely sure that both of these things will fall into place, and that we're going to have a conversion that the multiple has outlined. Both Oslo, the motorist here in the long term and the rest of the country will be on fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1428	The representative of Hagen's attempt to maximise the treatment of urban development for Bjørvika has only one rational purpose, and there is a search for possible arguments that everything is happening is wrong. What Hagen is doing is that he is simply wrong. His entire crisis image is a construction and remains a construction, no matter how many times one should possibly be able to repeat it from this pulpit. Had it been true, we would have had a situation that we should all have taken responsibility for discussing, but the truth is, in fact, as the Council of State has explained. In Oslo port government there have been concerns on the road, in different forms and with different content. These have been solved on the way. The first problem for Oslo Havnevesen was that they did not have an independent legal role in the process, because the Port and Water Law was in the way. We will solve this tomorrow through the proposal from the Committee on Transport. Today, Oslo Portevesen, and with the Oslo Harbour Government, has come to the point where they have got a place in the process they can be satisfied with. But their concern was, as the Council of State said, the future and the role of the state in the future process. And that's what we've been trying to take care of. That means that this illustrious meeting in two rounds on 13 June was not so dramatic, and I can say on my own behalf that it was definitely not after a significant or ‘massive pressure’, as it was stated, from the Workers’ Party, in relation to the Labour Party’s representatives in the Oslo Port Government, that the Workers’ Party also contributed to the clarification that was made. To the extent that I had any participation in that process, it was with all kindness and an extensive form of diplomacy that brought the ambiguities to clarity. That's what we were supposed to do, and that's what we're supposed to do before we get the decision it's made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1437	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the broad opening it is in Stortinget on a big and important matter. I think it's nice that you can gather as wide as you've done since the history of the case with a lot of disagreement, and say that now we're going to take a national power cap to develop one of the most exciting urban areas in Norway. I also just want to tell the representative Knudsen, as others have said, that this is not a matter of building a town around a building, although it might not have been that stupid. I would like to remind you that when the development of Vika began, the idea was to build a part of the town around a building, namely the town hall, and if you had just finished the project as it was, the entire Vika area would have looked completely different and more attractive today than it actually does. So it might not be so stupid to think a little bit based on some of the buildings that are going to be placed there. I actually asked for the floor to say a little about the representative Hagen's mildly strange presentation of the conditions in the port administration. I'm not going to go into all the details, but let me first say that in general cleanliness is that the state should deal with an instance, then they relate to the head of the board of that instance, and then it's taken for granted that the head of the board speaks on behalf of the board as a whole and the institution for which you're in charge. We have done that in this case. The manager of the Port Board has had a full uproar, or almost full uproar, in Oslo Port Board for the things he has agreed with us, and then I can't see that there's anything about the process you can put any question mark on at all. The representative Hagen is operating with a strange thought that there are some here who steal the harbor property. I would like to remind you that what is happening through the Bjørvika extension and the lower tunnel is that the properties of the Port Service are much higher than they would get if this area were to lie there as a sealed traffic machine in the future. Through it, Portevesenet is given the opportunity to finance large parts of the long-term port development for the Oslo area which is necessary if Oslo in the long run is to also receive a decent port and Norway a decent capital port. And the means that Oslo Havnevesen now has to actually realize and develop these values is the special law that Stortinget is invited to adopt tomorrow. So there's no question about any theft. If anything, there is a question of giving Oslo Havnevesen a gift, or at least the possibility of realising a gift resulting from the involvement of the state and the rest of the builders in the Bjørvika area. How it can be presented as a theft, I don't understand. It requires at least greater imagination than I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1448	It is almost tempting to jump into the line-up between the representative Hagen and the Council of State, but I will not, and rather concentrate on one area that I perceive the Council of State did not respond clearly in its exchange of lines with me. I was in my line saying that among car owners there is a significant concern about what the Opera in Bjørvika will cost them, and that the road manager in Oslo has actually outlined increases of 20 kroner by bombing. This is probably just the beginning, and I fear increases beyond this. I asked the Council of State to put a word on where he would say stop when it came to increasing tolls as a result of this project. The Council of State has referred to the project as being of limited importance for car users. However, the Council of State was concerned that he felt it was reasonable for polluters to pay. But as the Council of State knows, or at least it should know, it's like Norwegian taxpayers, car users, pay 40 billion kroner a year in car charges, and get back only 10 billion kroner. So they're already paying extremely much for this, and the tolls are coming at the top of this amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1455	I hope the Council of State Victor Norman is right. I hope that this will happen so that, in my opinion, these properties such as Oslo Havnevesen were forced to enter this property company and then Bjørvika Entwicklung AS, will result in the port service coming out of it in an economically favourable way. But I would have been more reassured if someone had provided an analysis of the extent of what is to be built, the price per. square metres of dwellings and their contribution to the development are such that a profit can be expected. If it were such that this is very lucrative economic for the Port Service, it would also be thought that another development company would be willing to pay for the properties that they were now, and that was well the suspension from the Port Service Director to the Board. It is also true that if you think this is a gift package for Oslo Harbour, I would have thought that the government had listened to Oslo Harbour's proposal for a legal text in the matter that we are going to deal with tomorrow. In the hearing, Oslo Havnevesen would like to have a restriction on the decision that would allow the port's funds to be used for other than port purposes, they would like to have: if it were in the best interests of the port. The Ministry of Transport has not included this in its bill for Stortinget. That was the constraint that would have been imposed if the analyses showed that it was a very speculative property project and property development project. Then you would have an opportunity to do something else. That limitation was what the Port Service itself asked for, in order to ensure that the values earned by the port should go to something that was not at the best of the port, so it would be outside the law of the Port Government to give its yes. So the department wouldn't take that in. I put a question mark at the state council's very clear indication that there is no risk here, the port's properties will increase in value as a result of this – that is, net values we need to talk about – and this is going to be a very profitable urban development. I hope, as I said, that the Council of State is right, and that I have been wrong. That's what we'll see on the day some bank lends a significant loan to Bjørvika Development AS to deal with all the costs associated with developing the properties and properties before you get any profit when they're sold. Then it'll be up to the banks' assessment of the creditworthiness, and then we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1464	Bjørgov Froyn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1467	I think it is reasonable, as we are going to have a debate tomorrow on the topic that is now being addressed by the representative Hagen, to say the following: The proposal to amend Section 23 of the Port and Waterways Act will imply strict prerequisites that money triggered by port areas cannot be used for speculative purposes without delay. A port administration will not be authorised to decide what you want to spend this money for. That's approval from the department. The majority of the Committee takes the view that the best interests of the port have actually been taken into account through the proposed procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1472	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3232]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1488	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1499	The kindergarten agreement between the Workers' Party and the other opposition parties on the Stortinget is a historic agreement. It is historic because it ensures funding so that you can build places for those who do not have offers today, and you lower prices so that it is not the size of the wallets for parents that is crucial to whether the pod can take the place in the nursery. It is also historical in the sense that no matter who forms a majority of government budgets in the years to come, child hail vows will be fulfilled. In other words, this is a happy day! For the Workers' Party, it has been an absolute prerequisite that, at the same time as getting the price down, we also provide full child care coverage. We can't live with the fact that while the majority is guaranteed cheap kindergarten, someone has to be completely unsolicited. That's why it's important to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. We must ensure that municipalities and private kindergarten owners have predictability in the economy, so that they dare to invest in building more kindergartens. We're doing this by increasing the state operating grant to about 80 pst. from 1 August 2003, and in addition, in order to provide an additional initial capital, we are submitting a single incentive grant, a one-off grant of NOK 16 000 per year. space for children over three years of age and NOK 20 000 per year. place for children under three years of age, from 1 July 2002. The working party knows that more money is needed to get more seats. We're willing to invest that money in the kids. The working party promised the voters during the elections last fall that the price of a nursery place should be halved. Through a maximum price of NOK 1500 from 1 August 2004, we have fulfilled our promise to all the country's young children's parents. It has also been important for us that there are schemes that ensure that kindergartens do not go bankrupt. With the maximum price of the parental payment and a fixed grant from the government, the income of both private and municipal kindergartens could be less than the cost. Then many nursery places could have disappeared. We've secured this by about 80 pst. government grants are already due from 1 August 2003, while the maximum price is then set at NOK 2 500. A maximum price of SEK 1500 is not introduced until 1 August 2004. This gives kindergartens an over-financing which makes it possible to phase this in a very sound manner. In addition, municipalities shall have a buffer. At the same time, the county must have 200 million. kr annually for estimation. Municipalities shall be responsible for ensuring full childcare coverage in their municipality and shall coordinate the admission in such a way as to ensure equal treatment of children and equal treatment of municipal and private kindergartens. We instruct municipalities to give priority to the processing of applications from kindergartens in the field of planning and construction, so that the development is not delayed. An obligation is laid down for municipalities from 1 July 2003 to ensure that there are sufficient childcare facilities for children under the age of compulsory training and, when the extension period is over, a statutory entitlement to childcare facilities is introduced. The working party could not be involved in imposing new tasks on municipalities in addition to what they are doing today, without being fully funded. It has therefore been important to agree that the State share should increase, so that the total amount of public support is about 80 pst. But it is assumed that municipalities will spend as much on their municipal budgets in kindergartens in the future as they do today. This allows us to introduce a maximum price without other municipal services being harmed. The funding model consists mainly of two elements: the parental and the state grant. In addition, there is a buffer in the municipalities and a beauty spot in the county. In principle, private and public kindergartens should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. The funding model shall be based on the fact that the main focus of the funding is via the State grant, as it does today. In addition, there shall be a buffer in the municipalities that takes into account the cost deviation between kindergartens. The buffer is handled by the municipality according to objective criteria whereby the nursery owners are given co-determination. It is necessary to ensure that the buffer is large enough to ensure that the new funding model does not lead to a deterioration in the quality and closure of sites. The final breakdown between the State grant and the buffer, to be located in the municipalities, is determined when the cost analysis is available in the spring of 2003. In addition, we want to ensure that the system of sibling moderation and income grade applies to the whole country and not only to a few municipalities. This means that we can be made rule-driven. This will not affect the phasing-out plan of the parental payment. Government parties have desperately tried to misjudge their own lack of initiative in kindergartens. In the negotiations they would not go into a price of less than NOK 1500, as they promised in the election campaign. Nor would they share in the economic promise that was due to come. Here was their contribution of small amounts. They would not participate in the incentive subsidy until 2003. They would not be able to increase the grant to about 80 pst. from 1 August 2003 and they would not be subject to a maximum tariff of NOK 1500. In other words, they chose not to participate in a broad childcare arrangement. In fact, we think this is strange, as they have to comply with the agreement anyway. The agreement between the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party is designed in such a way that no matter who the Government is to have a majority in the treatment of the State budget, it must first comply with the Kindergarten Agreement by providing the money and the investigations and proposals requested. A good advice to Bondevik is that the Government takes this into account when submitting the 2003 State budget. The only ones that create uncertainty about the kindergarten bet now are the government parties, and it would have been nice if Bondevik could assure that the Storting's will will will be followed, not least in view of the children who are not offered children's playground, and those who pay too much for the place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1535	There are probably others who create uncertainties about the agreement on kindergarten development. I would like to ask the Labour Party about a relationship in points (g) and (m) of the agreement. Under point (g), the grant is equivalent to 80 pst. the costs shall be introduced from 1 August of the following year. At the same time, point (m) presents a phasing-out plan for the parental payment. Today’s calculations indicate that 80 pst. public funding already from 1 August 2003 will facilitate a parental payment that is much lower than DKK 2500 in all kindergartens. One cannot see any correlation between the two objectives. It is therefore important that the opposition parties now clarify whether they want a maximum price of a given amount, or whether they want a parental payment of 20 pst. the costs, which means that the price will vary from kindergarten to kindergarten, irrespective of the level of costs. The question is: can the Workers' Party clarify what they really want, a parental payment of about 20 pst. Or a maximum price of NOK 2500, which is going to be higher than the average parental payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1546	As I said in my post, in this context, we want to have two thoughts in our head at once. We'll phase in the maximum price of $2,500 from August 1, 2003, and we'll actually give 80 pst. in operating aid. That means we're doing both of these. Today’s operating aid is calculated by an average of the age and length of residence, and so will be in the future. When we want to phase this in with operating aid and parental payment, it's because we want to give conversion time, because it takes time to phase this in. So this conversion is going to give us some possibilities. The deal is clear. The representative, Sjøli, can read everything that's written there. And that's what most of the answers are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1553	The representative showed in his statement that we share common objectives in kindergarten policy. I have tried to seriously enter into this agreement with the majority. What I think has been most regrettable, because I really hope that we will achieve our common goals, is that on some points this agreement is both unclear and messy. Maybe there's a lack of investigation, which for us was important in the negotiations to find out something that works. It is impossible to read from the agreement what the future organisation of kindergartens will be like. The government certainly has an interpretation work ahead of it in order to clarify the uncertainties surrounding it. It's a whole sector that's beyond understanding, and it's wondering what's going to happen. For example, how should this funding model be designed? For the majority of parents, this is not so important, but for municipalities and for private kindergarten owners, this means a lot. We depend on these actors to achieve our goals. Can the representative give us a little more time to think about how to organise the financing model? Do you need a two-part funding, such as today, or will all or part of the municipal funds for kindergartens be withdrawn from 1 January 2003? How does the majority want to secure municipal co-financing? And how does the representative think that the differences in public funding that we have today between private kindergartens can be evened out because of large variations in municipal funding. It is expected that the Government will present a model to be implemented in the context of the 2003 budget, when the contracting parties have not been able to provide clear guidance on this point. These are some of the points that are unclear. Finally, a small additional clarification regarding point (q) of the agreement: are the student children's gardens to be double financed with grants from both the Ministry of Education and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research, or is this expected to go beyond the Ministry of Education and Research's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1562	I'm almost lucky to say that there's more than I have that heavy in this room. But I actually said we should have buffers in the municipalities and in the county. We shall ensure that, during a transitional period, municipalities and counties have the opportunity to set up when it is economically difficult. We're going to make sure that the parental payment is phased in, as it says in the contract. Maybe that's the safest thing we have in this room. But I have to say that it is quite daring of the representative of the Christian People's Party to strike his chest and attack those who have actually reached an agreement that is safe. On 27 June 2001, a press release came from the Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party, Odd Anders With, who said: ‘All public orphanage grants are combined into one state grant of 80 per cent of the cost of a nursery place. Christian People's Party expects to achieve a cheek egg effect: Full needs coverage shall be achieved fasterThe parental payment shall be less than 1500 kroner per person. Children's playgroundTo ensure full non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens, the grant goes directly to the kindergarten.» Yeah, that was great. And then I actually figured that the Christian People's Party as a serious party had found a few dollars itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1586	I allow myself to repeat parts of the question from the previous replicator, because it was not clear to us what the representative gave the answer. When it comes to next year, 1 January 2003, it's the technical we're looking for an answer to. And I repeat the question: can the representative give us a little bit more to go about how to organise the funding model? Is it necessary to have a two-part funding which, today, or will all or part of the municipal funds for kindergartens be withdrawn from 1 January 2003? The agreement between the opposition parties provides that kindergartens are to be financed by government grants and by a fixed amount or a maximum rate. Clear limits will be placed on the income, quality and operation of individual kindergartens. The maximum rate binds the operating budget of each nursery. As we have understood the agreement, this does not actually apply to the family farms. And then the question is, isn't it difficult for the Workers' Party that the occupational children's gardens are the ones that get away from a top-cost ceiling?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1595	Today, the Workers' Party is not difficult – think, we are so happy today. And so could the other parties! Today there could have been common joy in this hall. We could enjoy ourselves with young children's parents. Because that's the way it is, and I repeat it: the funding model consists essentially of two elements, the parental payment and the state grant. In addition, there is a buffer in the municipalities and a beauty spot in the county. In principle, private and public kindergartens should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. - Right? Is the representative here now? It is necessary to ensure that the buffer is so large that the new funding model does not lead to a deterioration in the quality and closure of sites. The final breakdown between the State grant and the buffer to be located in the municipalities is finally determined when the cost analysis is available in the spring of 2003. And evaluations are presented on how the sibling mode and income grade can be made rule-driven. The money will be in the municipality until final funding is in place. I hope it lasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1605	That's what the president hopes too, because now the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1608	There is broad consensus on the main objectives of kindergarten policy: full childcare coverage during the period, stepping up public funding and, consequently, stepping down parental payments, and equality between public and private kindergartens. The treatment of the nursery service also gathered this consensus as late as two years ago. Therefore, the government parties fully support the main intentions behind Document No. 8:75 the proposal, and the agreement between the opposition parties to reduce the parental payment to a much lower level than today. The price shall not be such as to determine whether families can accept a nursery offer. The main challenge now is to ensure full coverage of needs. At the same time, the start will start to escalate public funding to 80 pst. until 2005 lead to a significant reduction in parental pay. The government’s proposal to pool all public funding into one government grant will also facilitate a lower parental payment in private kindergartens. The funds entered in the 2002 budget, together with the summer 2001 budget increase, were the first step. The government will also have a statutory obligation to treat private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner, and we will have an assessment of the legal or development obligation for the municipality once full needs have been met. The government parties initiated negotiations with the opposition parties in an attempt to reach a broad agreement on child care policy. We were willing to go far to get a broad support for a realistic and feasible plan of development, non-discrimination and lower parental pay. We presented mandatory escalation plans for the development of kindergartens through various strengthening and stimulation measures. We proposed annual needs surveys to provide a basis for determining the final targets for subsequent years. We proposed to change and strengthen the use of state instruments to ensure equal treatment of private and public kindergartens. And we were also willing to discuss a price cap model on the parental payment, an upper frame, for example. as for private schools. But we couldn't go in at the rigid maximum rate that it hasn't even been able to figure out the consequences. With the broad agreement on full childcare coverage by 2005 and lower parental pay, it should be possible to reach a common approach to an ambitious and committed childcare policy. But it didn't work that way. We left the negotiations because we do not believe in the realism of the agreement that the opposition has presented. There were two important differences between the opposition and the arrangements of the government parties. The Government Parties would assess the impact of a reform and not impose a maximum price. Instead, the opposition has now created new uncertainties in terms of both development and funding model through its agreement. So the agreement raises a number of issues that require extensive investigation. The plan seems a little thoughtful and is poorly prepared. I think it's almost like a draft, because the opposition has left the government to find solutions and complete the task. The only thing that is clear about the agreement is that it is unclear. And there has been considerable uncertainty among kindergarten owners, kindergarten builders and parents about the consequences of the agreement. A press release issued today by the Landesförbund of Private Barnehager reveals this uncertainty. They say that it removes the motivation and initiative in the private nursery sector, with the result of discontinuing kindergartens and stopping their development. And there will be uncertainty in the kindergarten sector until spring 2003. They also say that SV and the Party of Advancement Document No. Eight proposals had many weaknesses. After the agreement they have now concluded with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, we have received a proposal that is not to live with, says the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager. The reactions out there among the kindergarten population are very serious, but the opposition does not seem to be taking it inward. And there's a reason to ask, what is the opposition seeing, as others don't see? The Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre Party are on collision courses with kindergarten owners and builders. And it's serious, given that we're addicted to them to get at all to expand. The majority of parents want full childcare coverage before reduced payment. I think the opposition parties might be disappointed. I understand. It wasn't that reception and good atmosphere out there among people that they had thought of. But I guess that's where they really have to thank themselves. An agreement with so many uncertainties does not create security, but uncertainty and confusion. In terms of maximum tariff, it is with great wonder that we see what transformation the Workers' Party has undergone. When they were in government, they were against this precisely because of the serious consequences that, among other things, the parties to the government have pointed out. We have now heard a party speech from the representative Fallet. The working party is good at party speeches. Even I have a great sense of the party speech of the Workers' Party's faction leader Trond Giske held at the Children's Court Conference at Sea Lights in April. He outlined three priority tasks: full childcare coverage – with the necessary tools to achieve it – reduced parental pay and full equality between private and public kindergartens. In the same meeting, Gisk stated that the maximum price was not a suitable instrument for carrying out the priority tasks — rather, on the contrary. But it was then, it, and it was now, as the Prussian said. Indeed, the proposal for the introduction of a State maximum price implies a strong state regulation of the income base of the individual nursery. The maximum rate may lead to a bankruptcy rate among the private kindergartens and an emergency stop in the development. Already now, it is clear that the country’s largest developer, Barnebyg A/S, is placing ten projects – almost 800 new kindergartens – on ice. Is that supposed to make an impression? A fixed maximum price without a rivet also removes all incentives to think differently and to create new offers. It will lead to the development of A4 childhood gardens, a development that will go from diversity to simplicity. And at least that's not what the kids do. Many families today have no kindergarten, and many also have poor advice. Do the opposition parties consider it reasonable that these families should be involved in subsidising the high-income families? Because that's what's going to happen. The families of young children have experienced too many broken promises for many years. Many children are in line for kindergarten. Therefore, priority must be given to the development of lower payments. We can't be part of an arrangement that once again throws blues in the eyes of young children's parents, by promising more than what we can keep. What we need now is realism and results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1643	I heard the representative from the Right saying that there is a broad consensus on the objectives of kindergarten policy. Then it stands for me – more than ever – as very strange that the government parties chose to break the negotiations. It was those who chose to go out, without us having made any ultimate demands or limitations in relation to the result. It is said that you are concerned about the establishment of new kindergartens. Then my first question to the representative Sjøli is: why can't the Right be involved in supporting the introduction of an incentive grant for the establishment of kindergartens? It should, of course, be the best measure to bring such a scheme into the revised national budget for 2002. You have the opportunity to do that on Friday. I hope she can say that well, we do. So to the next question, which concerns containment. One of the most important arguments, including: by the Minister of Finance, this is irresponsible economic policy. But if it's really true what the representative Sonja Sjøli says, you fully share the objectives of kindergarten policy – full coverage, reduced parental pay, 80 pst. government grants – the price tag is exactly the same, regardless of which model you choose. After all, it is not the maximum price that determines the government grant. That's that you want to give 80 pst. to the full needs of kindergartens. In this way, the government parties must turn up exactly as much money as the Stortinget has now charged them, in order to achieve what they themselves have as a goal. And then I don't understand why this is going to cause problems for the containment. I would like to get an answer to that. And just to put it in perspective: the babysitting package of the majority parties represents one-sixth of the tax reliefs that the Right has promised and that the Minister of Finance today promised to implement. It constitutes a third of the defence package on which the government parties agreed with the Workers' Party. Why don't we have to assign the containment in these areas in the same way that the Right now requires us to do in the nursery arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1654	Now the representative was not involved in the negotiations, so he may not know exactly what the government parties were willing to do. Another point is that the representative Giske in April was at the maximum rate because he thought it would lead to fewer places, and that it would not be a tool for increasing the number of kindergartens. For government parties, it is important to have more than one kindergarten. And then we're going to simplify the payment. The Government Parties presented an obligatory, realistic and feasible plan. In the negotiations we went far. We have been willing to look at incentives and at an upper-price cap scheme, as private schools do — at least until further notice. We proposed a need-to-be study to form the basis for determining the final figures for the following years. We proposed to change and strengthen the use of state instruments to ensure equal treatment of private and public kindergartens. But we couldn't go in for a rigid max rate that you haven't even figured out the consequences of. After we've learned so far, it could have led to a bankruptcy rate among the private kindergartens, an emergency stop in development and poorer quality. We have received confirmation of this today by the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager. They are, to put it mildly, dismayed by the situation that has arisen. Instead of getting the government's obligating and realistic plan, we now get a mildest, persistent arrangement from the opposition. The most important thing, as I said, is first more kindergartens. And then we'll reduce the parental payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1667	It's going to be extremely paradoxical to hear Right talking about private kindergartens, because just by this agreement, the private kindergartens get it better than they've ever had. We know that in a number of municipalities private and municipal kindergartens are treated very differently. We also know that in many municipalities the price of municipal and private kindergartens is very different. So the representative, Sjøli, is talking about us in the opposition, throwing blues in the eyes of our young children's parents. For me, it is also the government parties that do it, by not wanting to be part of a kindergarten agreement. I must then be allowed to ask the representative, Sjøli: is it so that she thinks it is all right that there is a price in the private kindergartens that is far higher than in the municipality? Is it true that the representative, Sjöli, does not want a maximum rate and an even payment for all kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1674	I guess those who wear the shoes know best where they press. The representative Woldseth said that the private kindergartens will get better than ever. So that doesn't say the Land Federation of Private Barnehage, and I'm going to think that they have more things to do about this, those who are going to live in real life with the decisions that we're making here. I have the press release from Private Barnehagers National Federation here. I also expect the opposition parties to have that. Either they can't read or they won't. What is here is quite serious. They say that the agreement that has now been concluded between the opposition parties removes motivation and initiative in the private nursery sector. They say that the closures of kindergartens will continue, and that there is a stop in the expansion. They also say that Document No. The SV’s 8 proposal and the Progress Party had many weaknesses, but after the agreement that has now been concluded, where the Workers’ Party has contributed, they say that they have received a proposal that is not to live with, that it has created full uncertainty about how funding will be in the future, and that the final clarification will not be available until spring 2003 – in one year. In the meantime, the kindergarten sector is experiencing large wage increases and notices of interest rate increases, without deciding how to finance them in the future. So this is worrying. There are a lot of questions that need to be answered before we can figure out the consequences of this nursery agreement. And some of the questions that remain unanswered, or that are not answered satisfactorily, are among other things. the proportion of the 80 pst. funding envisaged to be allocated to municipal buffers and how this should be managed in practice. The private kindergartens are deeply concerned. They now still see the closure of kindergartens and bankruptcies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1687	It is not always so good to understand what the Government really wants in the field of kindergarten policy. It shows with all possible clarity the posts that have come here today. On the one hand, you say that you want realism and results, and you say that you really agree with that opposition, but then you find a lot of substantial arguments as to why you can't be involved. The reality is that Norwegian kindergarten policy has for many years been characterized by little realism and no results. Under the current government, almost no new kindergartens are built, and it is by a government that uses as the main argument against us who want results, to introduce an incentive grant and introduce an escalation of kindergarten development. The form of funding we have now chosen shall not enter into force until 1 August next year. So we have one year to get the kindergarten expansion up. It is very worrying that many parents want nursery facilities and that kindergartens are not being built. That's why it's particularly surprising that we're being attacked, we, as revised, actually stood to phase in money to get the kindergarten expansion going. There the government of all things goes against. Get it! Get it! Get it! So far it's built at the base of 2,000 places this year. The government's goal was originally 10,000, but now it's adjusted down to 7,500. So what do we do, we who make up the majority? Well, let's say okay -- if the government thinks it's realistic with 7,500 places, we eat it. But then we have to have some stimulation supplements. That's why this becomes the conspiracy of arguments, especially strange. I have now heard the government repeatedly state: we must have expansion first, before we can reduce the price. The reality is that if we had followed the government's scheme, it would have become a very unrealistic kindergarten policy, and it would not have been a result at all – not a result at all. What we're doing now is cutting through an endless array of different election vows from many parties and putting it in place: this is what Norwegian kindergarten policy is going to look like in the future! It will be of benefit and joy to many hundreds of thousands of young children’s parents in the country. This is very realistic and very results-oriented, and the government should accept this with goodwill rather than with these slightly lacking, a bit surmising comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1703	I think it's great that everyone here in this room wants more kindergartens. But when they want maximum rates at the same time, it will make it fewer places. There are more kindergartens under this government than under the labor party government, so here are many who have a lot to answer for. The representative Djupedal is attacking the government here, but it's not the government that's stopping the kindergarten expansion. In fact, it is the agreement between the opposition parties that is in the process of stopping kindergarten expansion. It's amazing that they don't take in the reality that Private Barnehage's League is experiencing, I think. In fact, that agreement is the most tangible proof that there is a sudden stoppage in kindergarten development. You might want to ask the question back: How has the opposition now intended to motivate the private kindergarten developers to continue the kindergarten development? What will they do now if we continue to lay down private kindergartens, and they are going to go bankrupt because of this uncertainty about the whole agreement on kindergarten development and the funding model created by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1712	The cord shift is over. Otherwise, the President will draw attention to the fact that there is no need for statements that may sound like comments while a speaker is speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1717	There's an old saying: «Whether I am hammering or hammering, let's just as grumble." I guess that's exactly what we're witnessing here right now. With it's good to know that it's not far from grief to joy, and here's a clear example of just this. From dealing with the Bjørvika and the Opera a little while ago, where we allocate SEK 3.2 billion to pleasure for very few, we are now going to deal with an important matter that is to the delight of too many people in Norway. It's such a thing that makes it fun to be a politician. We have always wanted parents to choose freely whether they would like to take advantage of a kindergarten offer, or whether they would like to be at home with their children. This real freedom of choice is a matter for us through this nursery agreement. We say yes to both the maximum rate and the cash support. Isn't it giving parents a real freedom of choice? The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party are now doing is just giving this freedom of choice to their parents. That is why we have already revised incentives to increase the development of kindergartens, in the hope of giving as much as possible a genuine freedom of choice when a maximum rate becomes a reality. There comes one of the answers to the questions from the representative, Sjøli, about how we want to stimulate. Well, we've already submitted stimulation grants in revised form. Anyone who has been or is a baby's parent knows it's expensive. In addition to working outside the home, a kindergarten is required, and a nursery area makes a good cut in the family budget. It must therefore be a joyous day among the country’s young children’s parents that much more will soon be left in the pay bag at free disposal. In fact, Norway today relies on two-income families, because housing prices are high, because both are expected to be educated — and this results in student loans. And then there's a kindergarten to be paid. When up to 60 pst. of the one person’s wages and salaries contribute to the cost of child care, it is clear that it is noticed. Now we're not the only young children's parents we're thinking about, but the fact that we've been agreed upon has confirmed that municipal and private kindergartens should be treated equally. This is a boost for the kindergarten sector! And when it might seem that no one, either the private kindergartens or the municipal councils, is satisfied with the agreement we've made, it might indicate that we've made quite well. There would have been much greater cause for concern if one of the parties had been cheering happily. The other important thing for the Progress Party is that the farm farms have got a real job. The removal of the employer’s fee on free nursery places for employees will stimulate many more companies to take the step of investing in kindergartens for their employees. Employees shall not be taxed on having free nursery facilities. But I have to say that the media's presentation of the matter is strange. It may seem that they simply cannot demand the idea that the Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, has benefited large parts of the Norwegian population. They want to make it look like the parties are cracking in every direction, and that we're not at all in agreement, either with ourselves or with the others. But it's not like that. We have an agreement that we're going to make sure is met. There is a majority in the UK that will provide it, regardless of whether the Government is trying to tighten the agreement even before it is adopted. As if it is a problem to have the right to babysitting in the richest country in the world! As if it's any problem that parents should have a real choice! As if there is any problem that small children’s parents with a very hard economy will get a little more in the pay bag! The problem is that the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party are meeting the government's electoral commitments. The problem may well also be, especially for the Christian People's Party, that the Progress Party appears to be a party that is a believer in family politics. That's why the government parties are suspending; this nursery agreement doesn't fit right now. Parties to the Government want to investigate, assess and avoid making any final decisions before the next period, so that they can use the same choices once more. Now, in fact, there is a majority who want to do something for the families of children in the country, and we have to make use of that. It is clear that it costs money, but we have not said that it does. But as I said earlier, we live in the world's richest country, and that should be enough resources for both old and young. So we see in the media that it might not be possible to find the labour needed to build all of these kindergartens. But think of what resources we would have released if we had let all the building workers who are going to start the Opera, be allowed to build kindergartens instead! At least we had enough nursery places in Oslo, I think. The world is changing and we are changing with it. A modern family wants to be able to choose whether they want to work, whether they want to study, or whether they want to work at home to take care of their children. That's exactly what we've done with this nursery agreement. We've adapted to everyday life, so it's in line with 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1752	I can assure the representative, Mr Woldseth, that the government parties are not'sutras', but we are wondering. I have to admit that I have spent some time trying to understand why the Progress Party now embraces one of the least successful instruments in the plan economy, namely price regulation. It has gradually occurred to me that I am not alone in wondering about it, so I can comfort Woldseth and others that I have not intended to spend much of the holiday to ponder on! One of the key issues is the creation of a so-called buffer fund — one at the county and one at the municipality. I'm not going to make a big point that this will be both bureaucratic and costly, but when you want to set up a buffer fund, it's a recognition that kindergartens have different costs. It has been recognised that some kindergartens have a higher cost level than others. Today it is the parents who pay it extra to get a special offer. Now, what you're saying is that it's the state that's going to finance the offerings of the children who go to the most beautiful kindergartens, which have the most specialised pedagogues, who have the most specialised staff, and who have the finest kindergarten and the most beautiful outdoor areas. These children will receive higher subsidies than children who go to a kindergarten that may be in a quagmire, with unskilled staff. I have previously listened to the Progress Party when they talk about non-discrimination. Is it non-discrimination that the State should subsidise the children who go in the most beautiful kindergartens, more than those who go in a more reasonable kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1761	What the representative Sanner forgot to say on the occasion of the case is that it is also a coordinated admission. This means that there should be no discrimination between children in rich and poor kindergartens and the places where the children enter. What you have as your goal is to get your children into kindergartens in your community. I also want to say that in the case of expensive and cheap kindergartens, the expensive, beautiful kindergartens are often public owned. By looking at the average cost of running kindergartens, we can see which are the most expensive. So I can assure the representative Sanner that the most important thing for us is non-discrimination, whether it's public or private kindergarten, or whether it's expensive or cheap kindergarten. They'll get about 80 pst. State grants all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1768	I thought when I read the agreement, that maybe it was just the agreement that was unclear. But I think the answers we have received here today are also rather unclear. But I would like to read out a few words that came in a press release from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager today. There they say, among other things. that the original proposal of the SVS and the Progress Party had many weaknesses and that, following the agreement they have now concluded with the Workers' Party and the Centre, a proposal has been made that is not to live with. I'm asking the representative to listen to those words. Is the representative really satisfied with this agreement? In the past, we've been together in the fight to secure private kindergartens an economically fair treatment. The Progress Party has forgotten its commitment to approx. half of our granddaughters? Now we're told about a stoppage, and even worse: about closures. In addition, the agreement testifies to a very bureaucratic arrangement. Parents are required to pay a fixed sum, while the public is required to contribute a percentage. Can the representative clarify a little more how she sees a design of this that will not create a violent bureaucracy? The majority have further stated in point (d) of the agreement that, apart from occupational kindergartens, kindergartens should be included in a coordinated admission – as the representative said – in order to receive public support. This means that the parents who go together, for example. in proportion, to build kindergartens, there is no guaranteed space for own children in the kindergartens they start. Does the representative think that this will help us get a lot of shares with parents who want to participate in and get speedy development? It does not help to stimulate development if at the other end there is a risk that more sites are being laid down than those that are being built. Then we don't reach our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1777	That must be the fourth, fifth or sixth time we hear the exact same quote from the representatives Eriksen and Sjøli. The party to the progress is satisfied with the agreement. We have not seen the press release, but I assume that there is something in the agreement that the private kindergartens do not now agree with us. They should be. I have discussed this earlier with the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager. They should be happy to get 80 pst. in State grants, with a buffer at the county where they can apply in full on the same line together with the municipal kindergartens. So, you get a higher cost coverage than today. That's why I don't understand this. I also do not understand, with all due respect, this concern for the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager. I actually thought, and forgive me if I've been wrong, that both the Christian People's Party and the Right put the children and the small children's families first and in the focus, and that these are just those we're trying to beat a blow at by putting the maximum price for the children who are going to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1789	Babies' parents are busy with the price, but there's one thing babies' parents are more concerned about, and that's quality. What has been experienced in Sweden is that the maximum price has exceeded the quality in several places, because the only way to compensate for rising costs is to bring more children into each kindergarten. That is why many parents are concerned too. They fear that the proposal for a maximum price may compromise quality. And an important reason why we say no to a rigid max rate is that at best we don't know if it goes beyond quality or not. I asked the representative Woldseth a question of non-discrimination, and I see it as a very central principle. It was very central when the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and Left stood together and worked for cash support. We wanted equal treatment, or at least more equal treatment, for children who had kindergarten and those who didn't. But what we're experiencing now is that the Progress Party and the other parties are going in the opposite direction. Now it is said that the children who go in the most expensive and beautiful kindergartens will receive more public subsidies than the children who go in a cheaper driven kindergarten. I cannot see that the representative answered the question of how to defend that some children should be subsidized more than other children when both go to kindergarten. This has nothing to do with coordinated admission, it has to do with the very core principle of whether or not to seek equal treatment. And the state should stand for equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1796	In terms of quality, I think that whether the kindergartens are public or private owned, there will be no particular problem. We also want quality, and we want to keep up with current plans and laws at all times. It shall provide annual cost assessments to enable the 80 % to be mobile. If there's a high cost trend a year, it'll automatically follow in the 80 percent. With regard to the quality of assistants and pre-school teachers, the Department has said that it is not a problem to train enough pre-school teachers, nor is it a problem to get assistants. In the case of non-discrimination between kindergartens, it is therefore confirmed in the agreement that there is equal treatment. Let go that someone costs more, and that it costs more to have kindergartens somewhere, but then we have a buffer for that. In addition, we have a buffer at the county for extra expenses that some kindergartens needed. We have responded to it, and it is in the agreement – it's just reading it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1808	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:75, a proposal from the depositors Kristin Halvorsen, Øystein Djupedal, Carl. I. Hagen and Siv Jensen on the maximum rate of residence payment in kindergartens. It's for the SV part 17. May, birthday and Christmas night at once. This is a major reform that the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV have come up with a binding agreement. We are very pleased with that in SV. This is a promise for children and their families who will give children legal rights to kindergarten in 2005 and a maximum price of NOK 1500 for a kindergarten place on 1 August 2004. In the election campaign the parties were very offensive, and several parties promised a pediatric prize of NOK 1500. With the agreement that the opposition parties have now agreed on, SV has had a positive impact on what was one of our main election issues, and one thing we have fought for for for many years. We read in commentaries and hear from the Government that this is irresponsible politics. What government parties really say is that they don't give priority to building kindergartens and reducing parental pay, as the goal of most parties is. The poor economy of municipalities is worsened under current government, and it gives to young children's parents neither kindergarten places nor lower parental pay. We can afford to really appreciate our children. It is too expensive to have children in kindergarten in Norway, and some municipalities and private kindergartens operate with child care prices of more than NOK 4000. At the same time, the municipalities have closed kindergartens and no extension has been followed up to ensure the Stockholm decision on full childcare coverage in 2003. Storing transfers to municipalities to reduce parental payment in kindergartens have not been followed up to the extent we want. On the other hand, there has been an increase in parental pay in many municipalities, and some have even invested money in funds to save on investments. The intentions of the Storting have not been followed up, and other instruments are needed to achieve this objective. I believe that the binding agreement currently under consideration could enable municipalities to achieve the goal of full child care coverage, because both a incentive grant and a buffer grant have been provided to the municipalities and a buffer grant to the county. The Buffer is a grant to be awarded on the basis of objective criteria and the Agreement equates with private and municipal kindergartens. If it appears that unintended effects and costs are not taken into account, a paragraph 2 is inserted in the contract. Where the needs studies and cost analyses show significant deviations from the basis on which this agreement is based, the parties agree to make the necessary changes to the agreement together. It should calm the government parties. The vast majority of children in this country still live in municipalities where the demand for kindergarten is higher than the offer. As a result of the cash support, the expansion of childcare facilities in kindergartens has stopped. Studies have been carried out to show that the population would rather have cheap kindergartens than cash support. This agreement will give parents a genuine freedom of choice. A stressed economy in families with children means that families with multiple children have not had incomes to choose to work. In order to give families a real freedom of choice, it is important to reduce the parental pay considerably, so that you have the option to choose. All children shall have the right to kindergarten in the same way as they are entitled to school. I am pleased that there is now a majority in this Chamber for this court. Kindergartens are good for children, and it is a good care offer and a good community arena where children can develop in social interaction. Kinderhagen is a pedagogical offer with a focus on children's needs. Children learn through play, interaction with other children and through the care they receive from more adults. The kindergarten also provides exposed children with the necessary additional care. Kindergarten is a good venue for linguistic and cultural integration of children with a multicultural background, and studies show that kindergarten children have better language development than those who are not in kindergarten. Development of languages and a common platform through pre-school kindergartens are important measures to promote integration, which we have all been concerned about recently. Kindergarten is part of a lifelong learning process that provides a social basis for children, a solid basis for further development, learning and experience in other environments, such as: school. The kindergarten shall be accessible to all children, irrespective of their geographical location, the economic, social or ethnic background of parents. Norwegian kindergartens are of high quality because the kindergarten law and framework plans provide clear guidelines for the quality of kindergartens. The Barnhagen Act and the Framework Plan are laid down in this Agreement. There is the big difference between Norwegian and Swedish kindergartens, which will ensure that in Norwegian kindergartens we do not get Swedish conditions, with overcrowded kindergartens and too many children per day. adults. It will be our responsibility as politicians not to erode or grant too many exemptions from the kindergarten law, and one of our objectives must be to get back to kindergartens all those preschool teachers who have chosen other jobs. More and more families are still excluded from using today's offer. Children of parents with good income are favored. Cash support has exacerbated this, and we have had a negative trend in equality between mothers of young children and mothers of young children. Cash support has led to more part-time and less full-time employment for women, and women and not men choose to be at home. Women also have a lower wage level than men, which clearly affects this choice. And new, entirely fresh, studies from the Institute for Social Research also show that family fathers work more than single men. I think this is an unfortunate development that enumerates women as low-paid, poorly linked to working life, and it makes women less able to earn a pension equivalent to that of men. This childcare arrangement gives parents real freedom of choice, and women's freedom of choice in relation to participation will increase. This child reconciliation is important for several aspects of society. Full child care coverage has been a struggle for women, the women's movement and the labour movement since the women entered the labour market. The opportunities for women to participate in working life and gender equality have been strengthened by this agreement. Lower prices will ensure that participation in work will pay off for low-paid women, and it is largely the women who work in the health and care sector, whom we need very much. Infant families have been listening to beautiful baby haillifts for many years. Still broken promises weaken confidence in politicians and election vows. The Christian People's Party has promised full child care coverage and reduced parental pay, and flagged this highly in the election campaign. It must be with bad taste in the mouth and lowered head to the voters that the Christian People's Party votes against this agreement, which does not differ significantly from the Christian People's Party's own proposal. It must be difficult for all government parties to read their batches and see their own choices in their eyes. Everyone has full child care coverage as a goal, but none of them are willing to implement their election vows to young children’s parents in practice. It was the government parties that broke, so we didn't come up with a common kindergarten settlement. This reform should all be behind us! June 11 was the day of the children. The Barnyard Agreement between the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV is a historic victory for children's growing-up conditions in Norway. The agreement on the maximum price and the statutory entitlement to kindergarten is a major victory for SV, who has fought for full child care coverage and lower self-payment for parents for many years. But the real victors in this agreement, they are primarily the children and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1846	The implementation of the maximum tariff will be a transfer of funds from the poor to the rich. The Socialist Left Party is a champion of universal solutions, and, unfortunately, with the maximum rate they have achieved. Everyone has to pay the same amount for completely equal offers. Unfortunately, those who earn the most at the maximum rate are the ones who earn the most from before. The losers will be the ones who serve the least. In my constituency in Oslo, for example, so that the minimum rate of parental benefit depending on income is NOK 750 and is 1200 places for parents who have an income of less than DKK 150000 per year. When the maximum rate is introduced, these disadvantaged families have to get out almost twice as much. At the same time, the high-income families save thousands of dollars each month. SV is hotly talking about income moderation, while the consequences of their policies in practice are the opposite. It would be interesting to know whether SV will also be making proposals at the maximum rate which increase differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1855	There have been a lot of different questions about the posts here that go on the same. Clearly, we do not want to introduce anything that increases differences in Norway. This will decrease the differences. Those who have major problems today using a kindergarten offer are those who have poor finances, and there are an incredible number of them. We're going to have the same rules for sibling moderation, and it's going to be the same for the whole country. There is currently a lot of uncertainty in the agreement, but we have said in our proposal that we should look at the principles developed into a new funding model to be submitted to the Budget for consideration in 2003. In the case, there shall also be proposals for a cost control system, a system for negotiation with the kindergarten owners, and it shall be ensured that the cost coverage allows for the quality required by the nursery. We clearly believe that kindergarten, as I said in my post, should be a pedagogical offer that should be available to all children, and we believe that this should be the same as a school offer. Then I think I have answered the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1864	The majority are trying to create an idea that this is something that we really want us to be on. We want to be part of a common, realistic and feasible arrangement. What was written in and after the negotiations was on the contrary something that we don't think works. In fact, we share common goals of raising the kindergarten that will give us full needs coverage of kindergartens with too many significantly lower parental payments, perhaps for the representative in the reverse order. Sometimes in this debate, when I have listened to SV's representatives, I think it is quite self-righteous to have such faith in themselves and assert some kind of exclusive right in kindergarten policy. A certain audacity, which we in our party know well, I think would have paid off if we wanted to be met with respect also outside this house. In any case, the agreement, which is unclear and partly messed up on several points, has one clear point: Users/parents in farmyards shall not be taxed on the advantage of having free kindergarten space. Isn't this to give both the tax and the fines to someone who's already sitting around the good table? That is to say, they have had children's gardening, they have got it for free, and if the representatives who have participated from SV in the public debate are right, then the SV has arranged this almost alone. What is the distribution profile? The experience from Sweden shows that the municipalities that have suffered a loss of income of 3.4 billion Swedish kroner. Does SV see that some municipalities too can get into a situation in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1875	Yes, it would have been nice if SV alone could take the full credit for the kindergarten policy in this country. I'm not going to do that, and I don't think we have. But we've been a good driver. I actually thought when I read all the programs in the election campaign, including the Christian People's Party and everyone else on my table, that this was something we agreed on. Here we've had many common features. Of course, we have faith in ourselves, and we have faith in this agreement. There are a lot of people who have said in this room today. We are not worried about the municipalities at all, nor about the kindergartens, nor about the private kindergartens, because there has never been such a good deal on the table. Here you have a grant from the state that is formidable. I'm going to spend $5.6 billion here. There is also a buffer both in the municipality and in the county that will provide additional costs for each nursery. We want this to be a recruitment offer for everyone. It has to be an offer for all children, so both businesses and the public sector will get more out of work. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1884	The Socialist Left Party is a party that I have perceived to be concerned with social subsampling and equal distribution of the goods. Nevertheless, they are now committed to making a reform that primarily prioritises the richest families. If I had 10 million. kr to put down the kindergarten prices in Oslo with, I think I would have chosen to give free kindergarten to the children who have parents with the lowest income. It would have cost approx. Ten million. kr. It would give the poorest families about $9,300 more to go with this year. Instead, SV chooses to create a reform that gives parents over 600000 kroner in income 27 360 kroner in discount per year. And then my question is, why does a socialist party choose to prioritize the richest with $30,000 a year, while they might want to keep the price for the poorest? But if they choose to do it for free, the very poorest will get around NOK 10 000 more to go with, while they get about NOK 30 000 more to go with. Isn't that a strange way to divide the goods? Isn't there something you might have figured out? Isn't there something you might get a bad taste in your mouth of? Isn't it true that you might wonder who is the real winner? But what you don't wonder: it doesn't reduce the differences!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1889	I've said it before, and I'm saying it again: there is a lack of kindergarten places that give a misalignment, and that makes those who have the least have not had an offer. This is true in relation to integration, and in relation to the poor families, of which many of you are now occupied. SV initially wants kindergartens to be free, but we do not have a majority for that in this room. What we have now come up with is a good proposal, a good deal that allows more people to choose kindergarten. The municipalities have very bad advice. This government has suggested that they get even worse, and we have seen that the rate of expansion in kindergartens has fallen. It's too bad. It's not an offer for everyone. We believe that this is a pedagogical offer that all children should be entitled to. And when you're so concerned about this: it's the exact same thing as for the cash support, here's also the bias distribution you're talking about. You give it to everyone, whether you earn a lot or earn a little. I believe that this proposal actually gives parents much greater freedom of choice, and it also gives children an offer and a right to kindergarten. Getting the law home right to kindergarten – just as you have the right to go to school – we now have an agreement, put on the table, from 2005, plus that you have a grant for the construction of kindergartens that I think will make that we come to the goal of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1901	Christian People's Party fully supports the main intention of both Document No. 8:75 – I can calmly discuss this with the previous speaker – and in the agreement, which has now been endorsed by a majority in the context of the revision. We also want full needs coverage. We want lower parental pay in kindergartens. In the light of the last few days' heated debate, I also want to say that I really believe that most participants have both good intentions and good will. I think they share the Christian People's Party's desire to get kindergarten places for people in line, at a price far lower than what some people pay today. I just think that somewhere along the way, the eagerness took over, and you've been jumping on a race. I have always said in this debate: I do not lean on the train that I do not think will lead to an objective. Now the political parties have promised and promised in this matter for 10–15 years. Now the Christian People's Party believes it was time to make plans that are both realistic and feasible, so that we meet the Christian People's Party's objectives in politics and give a real freedom of choice. For the Christian People's Party, the main challenge now is to create a fully developed kindergarten sector. Some of the parents now say: Dagrun, it doesn't help if you offer a price that low if I don't get room for my child in the nursery. KS had just a survey in May that confirms that the ones I meet are quite representative. 60 pst. priority will be given to room over price by parents. Having said that, I would like to say that it is also important that we implement a policy that gives us kindergartens at a price that parents can pay. Some places would say a lot more reasonable than what we have today. An increase of the government grant to 80 pst. will give average prices around $1,500, maybe even lower. That's what we promised, a parental payment of 20 pst. The Christian People's Party is also willing to talk about a roof on parental pay. But it requires an investigation of the consequences, because if a rigid, locked maximum rate leads to babysitting places being laid down, we don't dare to be part of it. If a rigid max rate leads to a decrease in quality, we won't be in it. We're talking about children's everyday lives here, and there's a few parents who will think it's acceptable and good that we have to pay less if that means that the quality is getting worse. We don't want to reduce the quality of children's daily lives in kindergartens or put them down. We have to remember that driving kindergartens is not going to be cheaper by introducing a maximum rate. We want to implement a policy that would give to families with young children a high-quality kindergarten space at a much more affordable price than today, but of course: enforceable majority decisions must be implemented by any government, including this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1922	In August last year, we could get a ticket from the Christian People's Party, and it said: «Do you want Bondevik as Prime Minister? Children's playground for anyone who wants it for less than $1,500 per person. month and cash support to all those who want it increased from today's DKK. Three thousand to three hundred per. month.’» The promise was repeated in several press releases. If the Christian People's Party believes that it is impossible to find a cure for our nursery plan, it must mean that the Christian People's Party actually cynically plan to break its own promises. It costs exactly the same thing to implement this agreement as to implement the Christian People's Party's own plans, and I actually take it for granted that they were going to find a cure for their own promises. In the agreement, we added NOK 1.3 billion for 2003. I want a concrete answer on how much Christian People's Party was willing to give in the negotiations. I know the answer, but now the representative of the Christian People's Party is given the opportunity to tell it to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1936	We are pleased that our electoral material also reaches the representatives in Hedmark – we are pleased with that! We've said that we want a 20 pst. share of parental payment and 80 pst. government grants. I'll just make it clear. What we've been most critical of throughout the contract is a maximum rate. Before it is implemented, we want an analysis of the consequences. In Sweden they investigated for two years before they dared to carry it out, and they had full needs coverage, and they almost do not have private kindergartens. We have almost half of our children in private kindergartens, and we're going to do this without any investigation! That's the most kinky point of the entire agreement for the Christian People's Party. We wanted to get a needs survey on real figures instead of plotting a plan that just took numbers out of the air. We want to show what needs we have, and what money we need to spend to achieve the goals we're going to achieve. We added a sum in 2003 that would be feasible. We have said that in 2005 we will have to meet the full needs. We're going to do that, and we're going to follow that. But the result of the majority of numbers is that we lose kindergartens at the other end. It doesn't help if you've put in a stimulation grant and you're going to build places, so and so many thousands, if we lose 15 000-20 000 places at the other end.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1946	I think we can only establish that this is not the Christian People's Party's day! If it was the case that the Christian People's Party was serious about what they are saying, there must be reason to ask: Where is the Christian People's Party's policy in this area? Where are these proposals to achieve the goals of the Christian People's Party they say they have? Where is the concrete escalation of the nursery bet, other than a measure in a setting in Stortinget? Over all years, the size has adopted measures for kindergarten development. There's been a number in a big paper, and then you sum up the next year. Unfortunately, over the last few years, we have experienced that kindergarten expansion has not been in line with the size of the population. Once again, when the Christian People's Party is trying differently to so question the content of this agreement, I have to say that then it is absolutely legitimate for us to ask: Where is the Christian People's Party's policy to achieve this if it is such that they supposedly agree with all this except the maximum rate? So far I haven't seen anything about this, and I'm asking for it. Then I have to say that I think that Dagrun Eriksen's posts are more and more marked by the government's intention not to follow the Storting decision. We don't want to be in this, was the review of her entire article, also in the previous line. Therefore, it is very timely to ask whether the government parties accept that there is a majority in the Stortinget who have a completely different policy than the Christian People's Party? The Christian People's Party may mean what they want, but this government is therefore obliged to implement the decision of the Great Government. If it's going to continue to be the Christian People's Party standing and talking like they're not part of the Government, have a completely different policy, completely different numbers, completely different amounts that they're going to put into the Storting, it'll be of great interest for the Storing to know this. The budget takes a decision that explicitly states how many billions will be put into the government budget next year. It is stated in the decision taken by the Stortinget. Then I would like to confirm that this government has now intended to do so, and to confirm that Dagrun Eriksen has no longer intended to continue to say what the Christian People's Party wants. It's actually not interesting as long as you've chosen to stand outside this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1966	This is the Christian People's Party Day! It is the task of the Christian People's Party to make the Storting and the majority aware of the things we see as worrying about this agreement. If not, the Christian People's Party would not have done its job. If the representative of Djupedal is afraid that I should mix, that the Christian People's Party and the cooperation parties here have separate layers, I would rather use the 'cooperation parties'. We have submitted and we want to add an obligatory escalation to full needs coverage. We want to have a obliging tapering of the parental payment, so that 80 pst. are government grants and 20 pst. parental payment. That's our goal. Then the question is whether we want to implement the policy of the majority. We wanted to implement something that would give children's families high-quality kindergartens at a much cheaper price than what they have today. But, of course, majority decisions must be implemented by any government – including this – but any government has to make the Greatness and the people aware of the consequences of the decisions taken in this house as well. That responsibility, of course, is also going to be taken, but the representative Eriksen has to say she's a little scared if the result is not now and we're going to meet new baby parents in the election next time and say: Yes, we would. We made a lot of ambitious, but we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1978	I heard the representative Eriksen say that this should be implemented by the Government despite our disagreement. I hope we hear that the Council of State also says later today, because it has to be like this. A little comment on the letter from the private kindergartens about their impossible situation. They express the same thing as the municipalities do today. Wages and pensions go straight to the weather. This is not possible – prices have to be set up. And then Stortinget says that now the prices are going down! Then it is clear that it is difficult. The difference in the kindergarten sector in relation to the municipal sector is that there is now a majority in the Stortinget saying that the nursery sector is special. It shall be the only fully financed municipal sector. There's going to be a completely different income from the state than what has been, and it's going to be so that we get to the power roof in the nursery building that we have to have. Without the kindergarten owners, both private and municipal, seeing that this is going to be good enough, we don't get to that building, and then we have to sort ourselves out so that they have confidence in us. I feel that what's happening from the government parties today is that they're trying to tear down the trust that Storting's decision has to have, and that job I had hoped we wouldn't take here at Stortinget. It's so small that separates us. It is said from the Christian People's Party that we have the same goals, we fully share them – but there is something missing. The cost of what is proposed, and which is now adopted by the majority, is not much higher than what would have been the cost of the Christian People's Party's option. The grant through the financial instrument to be used by the Government is much more accurate than a grant described in the Sem Declaration. I would then ask the question: What would be the Christian People's Party's alternative if they were to change the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e1995	It is not the Storting minority in this case who are tearing down the authority of the majority proposal. It's almost a co-consistent press basket done long before we got to this hall. It's been a long time since we got to this hall. And in fact, I believe that I have obligations to make the Storting aware of the concerns I believe are related to this agreement. I believe that we have a common goal of full expansion and kindergartens for a reasonable amount of money. But that worries me, for example. to agree with the maximum content set out in the majority’s proposal. Because it doesn't help if we build out 8 000, 10,000, or 15 000 new places if we lose 15 000-20 000 places on the other end. Then Stortinget has come equidistant. I wanted us this time to have managed to figure out what we believed, which was feasible, and which meant that the Storting could have gone into a new election. We didn't jump out of this because we really wanted to be on the table today. We've jumped off because we don't believe what's on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2002	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2005	Finally, it may look like years of promises of full child-care coverage being fulfilled! Majority politicians from most parties have promised full child care coverage for the last 10–15 years by the year 2000, and we are still far from the goal. The centre party is pleased that it can now look like we're going to be happy, and that the long-term promise of young children's parents is being fulfilled. The year-old struggle from young children's parents to have a nursery can now be over. Too many young children’s parents, especially those with children under three years of age, must be like a nightmare when the nursery reception is approaching and one knows that the chance of being given one of the few available places is very small. On behalf of all young children's parents, I sincerely hope that the kindergarten settlement is the beginning at the end of this desperate situation for many, many around the country. An important keyword for the Center Party in this context is the choice of parents to determine their own everyday life. Only when we have full babysitting, do parents have a real possibility of choosing the form of care for their children, so choose whether they want a nursery or cash support. The noise level around the currently managed kindergarten arrangement has been reasonably high. Many are skeptical and doubt whether this becomes a reality, while others point to the fact that the quality of kindergartens may become unwell because of the lack of advanced preschool teachers. It may seem that many are more concerned with finding problems in the conciliation than with the constructive that lies in the will of the majority to realize full child care coverage and lower parental pay! To the quality. On questions to the Ministry on the need for pre-school teachers in the development of around 40000 new kindergartens and the capacity of the education system to meet this need by 2005, the Ministry replied in a letter of 29 May: ‘The personnel situation in pre-school teachers does not appear to prevent full childcare coverage.’ There have been many different models designed to achieve the goal of full child care coverage and to reduce parental pay. The centre party has been concerned that the many children with special needs, those who do not come under the care of the disabled, should be taken care of, and that the supply should be strengthened. I am therefore very pleased that these children are now to be treated equally with children with disabilities. Municipalities have the total responsibility for kindergartens. That is still the way it should be. Coordination of admissions in such a way as to ensure non-discrimination between children and non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens is an important element of the childcare arrangement. There is not enough room to request new babysitting places. Incentives to achieve targets have often proved to be timely. According to me, the growth of kindergartens in the 1990s has a clear connection with the use of stimuli. Now that we're getting this back in place, I think I'm going to help increase construction activity. The decision will lead to full and not least real equality between private and municipal kindergartens, and that is good. The first nursery provision in Norway came about on the initiative of the Husmor Association, and private actors have our strong support players on the kindergarten front for over 100 years. Today's nursery services might have been much lower without the private operators. I therefore hope for a further constructive dialogue and cooperation with the private kindergartens. 40000 new kindergartens during 2005 are an ambitious target. For the Center Party, it'll be a failure if we don't make it. It is therefore immeasurably important that kindergarten owners, both private and municipal, are active participants in the further work to achieve the goal. This is also clearly stated in the agreement in section 2. 1 k. I believe that we should both lower the parental payment and reach the goal that everyone who wants it will have a nursery place. There is a result that will not least benefit your children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2039	SV's representative, May Hansen, was at least honest enough to say that there were many uncertainties in this agreement. One of the points that are uncertain is points. b. I would like to ask the representative Sollied Practices about that. In the urban economic proposal, it is foreseen that the level of the grant for children with disabilities will be continued at the current level, while the award criteria for municipalities will be changed. If the agreement requires the continuation of the grant scheme without any change, it will have significant economic consequences. Today, the state subsidy to disabled persons amounts to 10 pst. of the ordinary State grant. The agreement of which the Central Party is part adds up to an increase in the State grant of a total of DKK 4.8 billion. If it is to be calculated 10 pst. contributions to disabled people at the top of this, it will cost SEK 480 million. kr more than previously calculated. I could imagine hearing what the Center Party thinks about this. My other question also applies to points. b. It is said that children with special needs have to receive a grant equivalent to children with disabilities when recommended by the PPT and/or the Child Protection System. It is claimed that the Kindergarten Act must be revised accordingly. The Barnhagegesetz only contains a right of priority in the case of admission of children with disabilities. The law currently contains no rules on the right to grants, and I want to ask the Center Party what the opposition really means by this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2046	Now it's like in kindergarten that those with disabilities should have 10 pst. of the ordinary state. It's got games there, and it's still supposed to be there. Then the representative takes up the problem around children with special needs. As it has been per year. date, it's the municipal, the public, the kindergartens that have brought these children in. It's rare that we've found them in private kindergartens, and we can understand from the problem that these are more expensive children. It could be children with speech problems, it could be children with stemming, it could be children with asthma, etc. That we've now got a point in this agreement that says they're also going to have the 10 pst. over the ordinary cost, I think is unbelievably positive. Then we have asked questions to the Ministry – questions and questions – about how much has been used per year. date for children with special needs. We haven't got an answer to it, because no one can answer it. That's why I think it's very important what's in the agreement, that a guarantee is that these children will be paid for their expenses, regardless of whether they go in a private or whether they go to a municipal nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2053	The representative of Sollied Överaas has said that there is a lot we agree on in this matter, and that the debate has been very much about what we disagree about. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say that there is a lot right in it. I wish the agreement had stopped there, whether the matters we agree on. Perhaps we could then have had greater strength in achieving the common objectives, at full needs, at lower prices and at gender equality. The kindergarten agreement between the opposition parties provides for a buffer in the municipalities to take into account the cost deviations between the kindergartens. That buffer shall be handled by the municipalities in accordance with objective criteria for the participation of the nursery owners. My question to the Center Party is, what kind of criteria does the Center Party see that this should be? How should such participation be possible? Quality is not just about educated, qualified pre-school teachers. Quality is about adult density. The quality of kindergartens may be threatened by lower adult densities, as a result of ‘maxtaxa’ in Sweden. Doesn't this Center Party worry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2063	To the last, the representative refers to ‘maxtaxa’ in Sweden and asks if the quality concerns the centre party. No, it doesn't bother the Center Party. We have a nursery law to govern, and here's four parties that have shown a willingness to spend money, and if one wants to fill up with money, we're going to get both quality and a good supply for the kids, without regard to whether they go into a private or municipal nursery. Then the representative says that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party are some of many things, that there are only a few small pieces missing before we have the same view. What has been left of the pulpit of the Christian People's Party during the debate is that they have pointed out that it does not have our distributions when it relates to the max prices of kindergarten. Then I want to go back to when the cash support was signed. As far as I'm concerned, there were no distributions then either, but it works out perfectly. It's graduated. Those who use a full nursery do not receive cash support, and those who use a part receive some cash support. Today's co-responsibility when it comes to private and municipal kindergartens is taken into account. In many municipalities, the municipality is represented on the board of directors for private childcare. There should be no witchcraft if we want to, if we want to, that we have a dialogue with the private kindergarten owners and with the municipal kindergarten owners to get to what we want, that's quality and full babysitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2070	The centre party has always been involved in the transfers between town and town. When the theme is kindergartens, the situation is such that in very many cities there is quite good coverage, while the coverage is considerably lower in the countryside. Obviously, there are a lot of reasons for that. Maybe it's because there are other forms of care, maybe there's a closer community that takes care of children in other ways, maybe the family plays a different role. But the challenge is to expand more kindergartens, because the social networks in the countryside are also weakened, and will do so in the future when Grandma no longer lives in the union, but in the southern apartment in Palma. In this agreement, I have been very surprised to see that the Senterpartiet has gone into a model that primarily prioritizes the price ahead of development. There will be a massive transfer of money from the towns and cities. Investing in development would have been a massive transfer of money, resources and jobs to the countryside. Is the Centre Party willing to sacrifice this priority to be allowed to sit at the table, or are the towns still important to the Centre Party? And what about the municipal maritime administration? I have not yet seen a single rapporteur who has wished for this model.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2077	Now it is the municipality that has the responsibility for kindergartens, and so it should be in the future. What we know per person. Today, municipalities spend at least $3 billion on kindergartens, maybe they use more. We're going to know that through the cost estimates that will come back to Stortinget. What happens in today's situation is that municipalities have to deal with the statutory tasks first and foremost. And who's going to shut up in the whole country when we don't have kindergarten to offer a baby couple with one child in one year and one in two? It's just the municipalities. And who gives a shit when the nursery bets go up? It's the municipalities of the spokesman. I think we'll see that the municipalities have used more than these 3 billion that are indicated here now, and I think it's absolutely right that we get the real numbers. So the replicater says that the center party prioritizes the prize before expansion. Now it's the way the Center Party has always wanted us to reintroduce the stimulator, because it's proven to have had an effect. It showed the whole of the 1990s. The only party supporting the comments of the Central Party during the 2002 budgetary procedure was SV. So I thought it was shooting behind targets when it's said that the center party goes for price before expansion. But we have to see the reality of the day for young children's parents in the eye. They have a job to go to both, and they want a nursery for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2084	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2087	Ivar Aasen once wrote: "They believe it will go so far as to say something big, but as soon as something big is night, there will be a bit of fun." It had to feel almost like Ivar Aasen's making this agreement for all the good purposes of the world, and then it quickly came 'nokot smatt'. The main objective of the left is full childcare during the ageing period. We want to step up the state grant and slow down the parental payment. For the left, it is also important that we get a more equal treatment for the private and public kindergartens. There have been clear inequalities here for a long time. In Oslo, as I know best, has 75 pst. of children's kindergarten — above full coverage, according to previous state standards. 50 pst. has it in private kindergartens. This has traditionally led to queues in the public sector, because they are cheaper. The municipality has therefore spent a lot of money on making the price of public and private kindergartens as equal as possible. Finding models of what takes into account inequalities, different qualities and different offers has not been easy. But here the majority have found a model that pushes all the problems under the mat, but here it can quickly come 'nokot smatet'. It could've been a big public vow here on the Storting, where we could stand together about a raise for all parents. We could agree on the essential objectives behind the policy rather than a unfinished model that creates uncertainty and confusion for owners, drivers, employees, parents and children. But in the wish that 'nokot big is night', it was forgotten that it could quickly come 'nokot smatet'. We in the Left are of the opinion that when there is a shortage of good in society, the policy should have as its main objective that everyone gets good, not as the first goal that good should be cheaper for those who have it. Some time ago we discussed the matter of opera, but it is not reasonable enough to keep the mood throughout this matter. The Labour Party and the Center Party have listened to complaints about the local economy in the last few months, because it seems that there is only something that has happened in the last few months, but on the basis of an agreement between the parties, it seems that the challenge has been forgotten, but the feeling that remains may be that they would first of all reach something big, and then they didn't care what it meant to the municipalities. The majority in this case may appear impatient. That's not what they are. They don't care that their thoughts aren't always completely compatible with reality, and then it gets worse for reality. I think it would have been possible to get a broad majority in this case if you wanted to. Then we could get all the aspects of the matter up, quality e.g. – that parents today pay a little extra because the children eat dinner in the nursery, Christmas workshops, that you have outdoor garden, that you have a cultural kindergarten, that you have kindergartens with different pedagogics. After all, it is the quality of the children that should have been the focus of this matter. But it's possible that the majority think it was too small when you were most concerned about that here it was going so fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2113	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2116	A majority of the parties on the Biggest agree on a major investment in more and cheaper kindergartens. This obligatory agreement shall ensure that childcare facilities are available at a reasonable price to all who so wish during 2005. The parental payment shall be reduced, first to NOK 2500 from 1 August next year and then to NOK 1500 from 1 August 2004. Today, many thousands of children lack nursery facilities, and parents are forced to find other childcare facilities, often without a pedagogical offer. Kindergarten expansion here in the country had a sudden stop when the cash support came in 1998. Now there has to be an extra effort to make progress in the development, and that is possible. Let me remind you that we built between 10,000 and 16,000 new kindergartens per. years under the Brundtland and Jagland governments. In order to speed up the development process, an incentive grant will be introduced for the construction of new kindergartens, and it will already be this year: NOK 16 000 per year. new place for children over three years of age and NOK 2000 per year. new place for children under three years of age. An obligation shall be laid down for municipalities to provide a sufficient number of nursery places. We estimate that around 40,000 new sites need to be built in order to achieve the goal of full needs coverage. The size has previously adopted a target of 80 pst. government grants. The nursery contract ensures predictability in the nursery sector by providing the public subsidy of 80 pst. the costs already incurred from the next harvest. And it seems to me as a mystery that it should be more unclear than the Government's position, which is 80 pst. the costs of a government grant during the period. Is it more clear to the sector than that it is fixed by a majority in the Grand Duchy to apply from the next harvest? We also ensure economic equality between private and municipal kindergartens. The private kindergartens should be happy about that. It's far from the reality they're facing today. Unfortunately, there are very many municipalities that treat the private kindergartens in a completely different way from the municipal ones. It is essential that no kindergartens have financial problems due to lower parental pay. Therefore, it is not possible to do this as the government parties negotiated at Sem: a state grant, be so good, and then a little parental payment, and then the kindergarten is funded. No, the majority of the Storting doesn't believe in that. We believe that there must be more and more solutions for – a buffer in the municipality and even a system in the county to take the biggest differences that may be on the cost side. It is assumed that municipalities will use the same amount for kindergartens as they do today. That has been said by many today, and I repeat it. So that means that you can introduce the maximum price after this arrangement without asking for more of the municipalities than what we are doing today. But they also have to set up the way they do today. The Labour Party wanted all the parties to stand together behind the bet on the kindergarten, and this debate today is really quite strange. The parties to the Government agree that they have the same objectives as the parties to the Agreement in this case. We understood that to the extent that they said both in the election campaign and otherwise, and therefore invited us to negotiations. After many meetings, we know how things went: the government parties broke out of the negotiations, they wouldn't put a roof on the parental payment, and they wouldn't increase the state's grant in 2003. And then the same parties are trying to put the responsibility on the nursery contract to stop the kindergarten development! But it is the government parties that have not been willing to do the most important thing for the sector, namely increase the government grant to next year. That is one of the reasons why government parties are outside this agreement. It could have been tempting to remind you of many promises that have been made. I'm not going to go too far, but there can't be many who can misunderstand at least the promises made by the Christian People's Party about what a kindergarten place would cost this month, nor the promise that one should already be on target in 2003. So to the question of whether this is irresponsible because it's not shown common containment. No, it's not irresponsible. It is also the case that during the last few weeks, the Workers' Party has been negotiating quite in-depth with the government parties to spend 118 billion kroner for the Defense in the next few years. But it's not like we've negotiated a common invasion. We trust each other. Now we're all waiting for the Council of State. There are strong expectations that the Government will now tell what means they will use to advance the development of kindergartens and to bring down the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2142	There are not enough kindergartens in Norway. The payment of parents in kindergartens varies greatly and is generally too high. Much more kindergartens should be built so that everyone who wants to do so can receive an offer. Furthermore, it is not the price that should be essential for families to be able to accept an offer of nursery facilities. The parental payment must be reduced to a much lower level than today. It has been promised by the Christian People's Party, and it will be held by the Christian People's Party and the other government parties. Government Parties fully support the main intentions behind Document No. the 8th proposal and the agreement between the opposition parties. There is agreement on the objectives. The debate this evening has shown that it is necessary to clarify what we do not agree with. In the kindergarten negotiations, government parties presented a realistic plan for the full development of kindergartens to those who need it, for stepping up the state grant and thus for the reduction of parental pay, as well as a level playing field for private and public kindergartens. Babies' families deserve results, no more promises that can't be fulfilled. For this reason, there has been a strong desire on the part of the government parties for a broad consensus on child care policy. There are two important reasons why we cannot go in for a maximum rate now. In the negotiations, the Governments accepted that a ceiling should be set for the parental payment. But such a roof or a max rate must be investigated, so that we know what we're doing, know the consequences, and there can't be any such thing until you've built out kindergarten space to anyone who wants it. We want parents to have a real opportunity to choose the most appropriate form of care. First we have to make sure that enough spaces are built, and so that one ensures the operation of the existing kindergartens. It's necessary to do something about the price. The payment of a parent shall be gradually reduced by increasing the State contribution. But by imposing a rigid maximum rate for fast, many private kindergartens will be unable to cope financially. Maximum rates can lead to the closure of kindergartens, and this is very serious and regrettable. We need new places, and we need to secure the places we have. Sweden has introduced a maximum tariff. We know that the starting point in Sweden was completely different from Norway. First of all, babysitting was much higher. The question of the maximum rate was thoroughly investigated. Nevertheless, the introduction of maximum rates has led to lower adult densities and efficiency pressures in Swedish kindergartens. The Christian People's Party and the other government parties will not go in for a roof on the parental payment until we know that anyone who wants it can fit in. We regard it as irresponsible to introduce such a system without it being determined in advance. We must avoid the introduction of a maximum rate that could lead to more kindergartens being laid down. It must be a serious cause of thought for SV, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that the maximum price proposal does not meet the great enthusiasm outside. It's like a celebration on 17 May and Christmas Eve just in this room. The proposal for a maximum tax has created considerable uncertainty and skepticism, and a rapid introduction has alarmed both kindergarten builders, private kindergarten owners and parents. Those who pay the most for a nursery place today would like to pay more than NOK 4000 a month. For them, a maximum rate of NOK 1500 will mean a saving of over NOK 30 000 per year. A similar maximum rate for all parents will in reality bring greater benefits to those with high incomes and high prices in kindergarten. It surprises us that SV is in favour of a scheme that does not add up to a stronger social profile. In our opinion, halving the nursery rates in the long term would have taken much more correctly. The Christian People's Party and the government parties say yes to more and cheaper kindergartens. We say no to introduce a maximum price without investigating the consequences. We're saying that the right thing now is to expand the number of places and reduce the parental payment significantly. We don't think an equal maximum price of parental payment is a proper grip now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2161	This is a big day. This is a great day for these four settlement parties here in the Grand Duchy, which finally cut through endless promises over many years and now want to make a forward-looking child care policy for the security of families and the security of the child's reproductive corps. This is a big day, for for so many years, kindergarten parents in Norway have had expectations that the Stortinget will do something. When you listen to different speakers from what are government parties, you see why many parents are desperate, simply because you have endless promises without a single obligation. The Christian People's Party's speakers today have thus been a school example of how it is possible to talk and talk in the endless without making a concrete promise about how this should be. It is clear that this creates uncertainty among the country's parents, there is no doubt about it. That is why we have cut through four parties and said that this is what we want, and we want it so strongly that we make this agreement. This agreement has no uncertainty. The only thing that is uncertain about this agreement is that the ministry has not had sufficient data to be able to say exactly what this is like. There are an incredible amount of statistics in Norway, but when we asked for statistics when we were going to produce this agreement, we discovered that there were many gaps in the statistics. This is all we want the department to come back to us with. For the main pillars of the new funding model are nailed through this agreement, how things are to be phased in, is nailed through this agreement, how things are to be financed, is nailed through this agreement, and how the incentive subsidy is to be phased in is nailed through this agreement. If we had sufficient data base, of course, we would have been even more detailed. When you hear today's debate, you realize that you need to be detailed, because you experience obstruction after obstruction by those who should have been involved in this agreement. So this is a historic day, and we're trying to cut through, and we feel that the government parties are trying all sorts of ways to create uncertainty about this rather than being part of this great promise. Let's also say that it's understandable that many people are insecure, that many people out in what's called Barnehage-Norway are insecure. That uncertainty is not the cause of this agreement. This uncertainty exists today. This uncertainty exists simply because the municipalities have very poor advice. This means that the financing of municipal kindergartens in the future is uncertain completely independent of this agreement. This agreement will, when it enters into force, ensure that much of the uncertainty is eliminated, simply because we are getting a whole new funding system that provides a completely different security of financing. But it is understandable also that the private kindergartens are uncertain, simply because they also have an uncertain situation today, perhaps more uncertain than in many years, because the cost growth in the kindergarten sector has been high, and it is not without a doubt that these costs can be reduced to anyone else, to parents or who else. The uncertainty is what we've been trying to clear up. It is precisely this uncertainty that the contractual partners have tried to meet by creating a financing system that ensures the private in a completely different way from today. They are given a completely different security for future financing through this system than the current system. Remember, today's private kindergartens get under 50 pst. of its costs covered by State grants, and usually nothing from the municipality in which the nursery is situated. So the rest of these costs have to be provided by the kindergarten. These kindergartens have an uncertainty today. Our goal – and we manage to do it – has been to remove the uncertainty that private kindergartens and municipal kindergartens have been living under for all years. There was a previous speaker here who said that with this agreement you have laid down kindergartens. With respect to notifying, this agreement has not yet been adopted in the Storting. If it has disappeared from a kindergarten because of this agreement, it is because the Government has created uncertainty about it through its own funding of the municipalities, or because the Government has created uncertainty about its own financing of the private kindergartens. It is this uncertainty, which unfortunately is there, which small children's parents, municipal politicians and owners of private kindergartens have felt for many, many years, and in particular perhaps the last year, during this government. We now want to cut through and say that's how we want it. The only open feature of this agreement is that the numbering material has to come back to Stortinget so that it can be processed in a way that creates security in an infinitely important sector for Norwegian young children's parents, and not least for their young children. So in this agreement, we've put some of the most important pillars in place. We have put in place a rate of expansion with incentives, we have put in place a reduction in the price of a maximum tariff that is to live with, we have put in place – in the long term – a legalisation of the right of children to a safe growing-up condition in a kindergarten, for those who want it. In short, this is a historic day and a historic agreement, in which four parties show courage and boldness and intersect through an endless array of election vows from many parties over many years. Creating a forward-looking, good child policy for our country should more than four parties be proud of, because this is actually a historic day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2180	Document No The 8 proposal on the maximum rate of stay in kindergartens shows that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the main objectives in the kindergarten sector: childcare space for all those who want it, equal treatment of public and private kindergartens, reduced parental pay and a good and equivalent childcare provision. Nevertheless, the Government and the opposition parties distinguish layers in terms of prioritisation of the different objectives and use of instruments. The negotiations that have been taking place in Stortinget during the last few weeks have unfortunately not taken place. In particular, the proposal to introduce a maximum price, which has been discussed by many, has made it difficult to reach agreement. The government fully supports what I see as the main intention behind the proposal on the maximum price, namely to reduce the parental payment to a much lower level than today. The overall objective of the government in the field of family and kindergarten policy is that families should have a real opportunity to choose the most appropriate form of care. The price of a nursery must then be affordable for everyone. However, when the Government is concerned that the maximum price will now be introduced, it is due to several factors. First of all, we find it problematic to accept such a scheme without having determined the consequences for the sector. The main challenge in childcare policy is to ensure full development. The introduction of the maximum price before removing the kindergarten queues implies a prioritisation of those who already have a kindergarten offer for their children, and it creates increasing differences. In a survey recently conducted by Opinion of the Municipal Councils, over 60 pst responded. of those surveyed, that the most important was now multiple kindergartens. By comparison, it was only 25 pst. who replied that they preferred cheaper kindergartens. In order to complete the final stage of development, the Government considered that fundamental changes were needed in the financing and management of the kindergarten sector. In the 2003 municipal proposal, we outlined a plan for the phasing-in of new instruments. Today, the nursery owner makes his or her own parental payment, and this provides an opportunity to govern parts of the economy in kindergarten. The maximum price means a very strong government regulation of the income base of each nursery. At the same time, we know that the costs of kindergartens vary — both between kindergartens and between municipalities. When the nursery owner no longer has the ability to influence the income through a regulation of the parental payment, under-financing will occur if the government grant is not high enough to cover the real costs. Peat owners who, for various reasons, have high operating costs will then have to reduce their costs in order to avoid closure. This will also affect the quality of the offer, for example: by reducing manning. In the worst case, a maximum price scheme could lead to the closure of kindergartens. In particular, this applies to private kindergartens which have only parental and state subsidies as sources of income. In this case, the introduction of the maximum price scheme would have direct negative consequences for the full needs-based objective. As you know, Sweden introduced a maximum price scheme in the new year. It is already seen that the scheme has some unfortunate consequences – despite the fact that a number of conditions were better suited to the introduction of maximum prices in Sweden than in Norway, and that Sweden also spent several years investigating it. A recent study carried out by the Swedish Communist and Allies Association shows that costs have increased since the introduction of the maximum tax, so that the loss of income is not fully compensated by the State subsidy. As a result, children’s groups are increasing and staff density is lower. Other surveys also confirm this trend. The government is also concerned that a maximum price scheme will lead to an over-harmonisation of the childcare facility. We are committed to a wide range of childcare facilities with regard to both operational forms, periods of residence, educational content and the way of life, so that parents can choose what is best for them and their children. Although price is important, the desire for a particular offer is equally burdensome for many parents. In the open consultation of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs on the proposal for a maximum price, it was found that both the KS, the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager and other representatives of the owner share the government's skepticism to establish such a rigid arrangement. These consultation opinions from key stakeholders in the sector are serious, in particular because the impact of the proposal has not been specifically addressed by the proposers. I will end by saying that the Government of course bases its decision on Storting's further work. At the same time, the Government has a duty to clarify the impact of decisions and to provide the necessary information to the Storting. I want to make sure that this is done in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2212	Having listened through this debate to the representatives of the government parties almost limitless murmuring and black paint, I have had a certain hope that it might still be that in this country we are so lucky that we have a kindergarten council that is able to rejoice on behalf of the children here in the country, when a majority of the Stortinge goes in to lift her sector. That's what the nursery contract involves. The little hope I have had in the course of the debate. I must say I was disappointed. Although the adjectives of a Council of State have a slightly different character than some of the representatives of big business, I have to say that the overall negative approach of the Council of State to the agreement is a great disappointment. It is also remarkable that a government council comes into the Storting and troubles that the Storting asks the Government to investigate. Who else is the administration for? Who else is the Department of the Council of State and the entire administration for, if not for the Stortinget? Who else would the Stortinget ask to get started on investigation tasks, if you weren't going to ask the Government to do it? Of course, it's the real role and function of the Government along with the administration to make sure that the Biggest thing actually asks for. Now, the government has used all the posts to tell us that they agree with the objectives. In any case, I had hoped that the Council of State would tell Stortinget and the whole country what is the government's and government party's means of building more kindergartens. When the government parties do not increase the country's grant to 80 pst. from the next harvest, what are the instruments? When you didn't want to introduce stimulation grants this year, what's the instrument? Now I think we need to have a right to get some answers to that. It was in its place that the Council of State made it clear in her own statement that she based Storting's decision on the further work. Anything else would have been completely alarming. But now the Council of State has to tell what instruments the Government will use.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2231	I'm glad that there's a lot of consensus in the Stortingen on kindergarten schooling, and that maybe it's one of the most important policy areas we're facing in the next few years. I believe and hope that, after all, the government parties have come up with everything today, and said many times. But this is a very big reform, and today's debate seems to me to have reflected very well that there is great uncertainty about some of the instruments in the opposition parties' agreement. The representative May Hansen also said from this pulpit that there were some uncertainties. It may be a little late to discuss the Government's instruments. We have actually been presented – let's say – an order from Stortinget, where a number of instruments are requested to be investigated by the Government. I experience the debate today so that we from the Government must come back with a financing model that we do not fully see the outlines of what to do. A number of questions have been asked directly to the opposition parties, including: on phase-in next year, from 1 January 2003. Questions have been asked about what you mean, for example. objective criteria, and a number of other questions, which I shall not repeat. But there was actually no answer. So maybe the opposition parties could get a little bit more involved in their actions, because it's the ones that are going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2240	So now the Council of State pointed out the instruments that are in the municipal proposition. Then I am amazed that she cannot refer to them here as well, and what measures this is all about. In addition, the Council of State uses terms such as ‘rigid’ reform, referring to consultations with KS and the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, which share the government’s skepticism. For me, it seems as if the Government and the Council of State have some problems knowing who they should blush to, because the private kindergartens want a purely state grant, which is also referred to in the Sem Declaration, while the Prime Minister went to the conference with the rapporteurs earlier this year and promised that the municipalities did not have to worry, because these billions remained in the municipalities, and the municipalities were to have part of the funding. What does the Council of State really mean, and what does the Government actually mean? How do the kindergartens want to be funded?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2247	It is true that we have written some of the instruments in the municipal proposal, and perhaps one of the most important instruments that we wanted to put in as early as 1 January 2003, was an equality between private and public kindergartens. As of 1 January 2003, we wanted to ensure that there was equal treatment between the private and public kindergartens in the case of government grants. Therefore, it is also stated in the municipal bill that there was a desire for one government grant to the private kindergartens. This was perhaps one of the most important tools that was needed to reintroduce private nursery facilities. the date of issue. And I think that's what the private kindergartens are now worried about, when they say that there's a hole up to August 1, 2003. What are the private kindergartens going to do in this period? Because we have not received a response today to how the instruments, the funding, in the opposition party model are from 1 January 2003, and we think that is actually a little difficult. In addition, the opposition is well aware of the means that we have negotiated, which are many of the same instruments that the opposition has also used in its model, with a slightly different phase-in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2256	It's very sad – to use a common word – that we have a pediatric minister who doesn't have the ability to enjoy this big day. Because this is actually a very big day, when we end up with a lot of promises, when it's over with a lot of big words, and when you put in place a funding system that is actually going to give her sector a boost far beyond almost all other sectors of Norwegian society. I am amazed that all that is said by us that make up the majority has still not entered. There is no uncertainty or uncertainty in this agreement. The only thing that is unclear and uncertain in this agreement is the basis of figures to be used. This number base was not the department's ability to give us, and therefore, of course, in full respect for the ministry and the ministry, we need to get this number base out. But the Council of State must not in any way pretend that this is a kind of open agreement that can be interpreted a little bit there and a little bit there. Let me just quote point k: ‘Based on these principles’ – which was laid down in the agreement until then – a new financing model is developed, which is submitted to the Size for treatment...’» So it's based on some principles that are inevitable, that the majority have put in place here. It is important that the Council of State takes note. Of course, we are familiar with the uncertainty that exists in the kindergarten sector. It is not we who create; it is the government that creates the uncertainty both in municipal and private kindergartens. They're the ones with the government power. If you felt very insecure there, why didn't they let money in, for example. in the revised national budget for security? On the contrary, there's not one penny there. In the municipal bill, there's even 400 million. kr from municipal kindergartens. For this reason, the majority of their wisdom has also made the following comment, which is in the position of the revised national budget: ‘The majority are aware that the State contribution will increase from 1 August 2002 in order to cover the cost growth of the sector and to reduce the parental benefit, see paragraph 1. Wages and salaries situation. The majority are uncertain whether this is sufficient. The majority therefore ask the Government to follow the situation closely and to assess this further in the context of the 2003 State Budget.’ If the Council of State has not read this, there is reason to ask: Does the Council of State intend to follow up also this imposed by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2277	Of course, the government follows up what the Storting decides. There's no reason to doubt it. This also applies in this case. However, there are some challenges in this agreement, as the opposition parties have also sometimes said from this pulpit. We feel that there are some ambiguities that they themselves have asked the department to find solutions. And of course, we'll do that as best we can and get back to Stortinget, also in terms of consequences. When Eirin Faldet was asked what the model would look like in 2003, there should be a municipal outreach, there should be a two-part funding – we got no answer. When the government parties asked what objective criteria mean, and who these are, there was no answer either. That means, of course, that the government has the challenge that we get to base what we think the opposition might have meant by some of this. We're going to do that, of course, but I can't hide that there are major challenges to this. And then finally: Of course, as Minister for Children and Family, I am very happy that we have a big deal that all actually agree on the goals. It's like a big day. But I would really like us all to be together on this. We couldn't, mainly because of the introduction of the maximum tariff. And this debate today shows that there is uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2298	It is good to right that the Council of State determines that the Government will follow up the decision of the Storting. Representatives from the Christian People's Party, through their contributions, have raised doubts about the willingness to implement what the plurality stands for in the setting. Several of the government’s representatives have used a press release from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehagers in the succession. It is somewhat more nuanced than the government's expression. Here it says, among other things. that the nursery sector ‘ experiences large wage increases, interest rate increases without government and growth taking responsibility for financing any of these’. This is in stark contrast to what was said from the government party, that it was only a black measurement of the agreement that Stortinget has been on. Furthermore, it says: ‘Since 1996, more than 600 private kindergartens have been closed [[own figures of the Statistical Office of the European Communities]] And on the other hand, ‘According to the House Bank, loans for the construction of 1882 new kindergartens were only applied for as of 31 May 2002.’» It was a long time before the kindergarten agreement was a fact. These speeches should upset the Council of State. My question is, what concrete action would the Government have taken as these numbers were a fact and were leading the way? In its article, the Council of State warns about quality degradation in kindergarten – fewer pedagogues, greater child density, etc. But Kinderhagelova saw demands for such things. Is the Council of State planning to change the Kinderhagelova to four requirements for quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2319	It is a long press release that we have received from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, and the quotations that the representative referred to are quite correct. Nevertheless, I would like to point out some of what I said in one of my previous answers, that the consequence is that kindergartens may have to live in a large vacuum until 1 August 2003. That might be the main content of this press release, as I see it. To answer what the government would do in terms of instruments, I think maybe one of the big differences was that in the municipal bill we would – we have already worked quite a long time in the department with the new funding model, as we have seen it for ourselves – have already been able to implement from 1 January 2003 a great deal in relation to the kindergartens that were the worst, namely the private ones. It is also in private kindergartens that the parental payment is the highest. When we talk about the kindergartens that have been closed – since 1996 more than 600 private kindergartens have been laid down – it is precisely because we have not had the good tools and the best possible funding model to provide enough funds and have a good enough structure for the private kindergartens to survive. The financing model that the opposition has presented today, I understand, and it was also said – I believe from Øystein Djupedal – will not be in place until 1 August 2003. So it's going to be kind of a postponement in more than half a year. I guess that's what might be the biggest concern for the private kindergartens, which are the worst today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2326	Unlike contributions from the government parties earlier today, the Council of State's posts were heard almost cheerfully, but it does tell more about the previous posts than about the Council of State. I've never heard of a state council that almost regrets being involved in designing the model that will finance the most important area in her sector. If this is the case – just to take it first – that the Council of State is concerned that it is too long before the funding model is in place, if we wait until spring 2003, the Council of State is cordially welcome to present the financing model already at the time of the fall. I think all the partners in the agreement are in – if the department could deliver it in the state budget in October, nothing would please us any more. It might be interesting to hear if the Council of State can take on that task, because then we've cleared it out of the way. The second thing that is interesting in the articles of the Council of State is that she is concerned about the vacuum that arises from now on and until 1 August 2003. From now until 1 August 2003 there is nothing in our agreement that will come into force. So if there's a problem up until then, the problem is the government's economic policy in these areas. There is no incentive to start the expansion process now; no proposal has been made in the revised national budget to improve the functioning of private kindergartens. But one can also promise here that, in addition to what this agreement involves, the State budget for 2003 will provide a grant to private kindergartens that will guarantee the operating economy until 1 August 2003. Then to the instruments. I have not yet heard one word about the instruments. Our tools are clear: 80 pst. government grants from 1 August 2003, incentive grants from 1 August of this year, statutory obligations for municipalities to expand, statutory rights for children to have a place, national systems for the moderation of siblings and income upgrading. That's our answer. What is the Government's answer? We haven't heard a single word about that. Then we heard earlier today that the reason for not agreeing was a maximum price. No, it wasn't. The reason we did not agree was that the government was not willing to call up as much money as needed to get full coverage and to get the price down. My last question to the government council is: How much money was the government willing to be in a kindergarten settlement? How much was the government saying they could attend in 2003, and how many places would it have given? We know the answer, because we've been in negotiations. Now the Storting and the rest of the population also have the opportunity to hear it from the Council of State of Laila Davay. How much money did the Council of State get from Per-Cristian Foss?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2342	The President makes it clear that when the speakers get really excited and underline this by knocking in the speaker's chair, there is a loud alarm in the speaker's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2345	The Ministry is very keen to explore a new funding model. Of course we're going to do that. But as I said, we are concerned about the consequences of this model that lies here, in terms of maximum tariff. I believe in the private kindergartens when they say they're worried and afraid that there'll be some closures. Some of the reasons for this are precisely the uncertainty created by the settlement that exists. To the question of investigating this earlier, we're going to work as fast as we can in the department. But we are actually dependent on more clarifications than we have received in the course of the debate here today. Because the alternative to so few clarifications is that we have to figure out the many possible solutions, so that we have something to choose from when we get back to Stortinget. I hope that the representative Giske at least believes in my word when I say that I still have a number of questions. As far as the municipal bill is concerned, there was a list of many instruments from the Government, both discussions related to the statutory obligation, a new funding model, which I have had several times, and also a number of other instruments. And I guess I don't need from this pulpit to repeat them, they know the representative guess perfectly well. But the most important thing about the municipal proposition was that it also outlined different options and alternatives in some areas, precisely because the government also wanted a broad settlement. It was also an invitation to the Stortinget where we made it clear that we were not locked in any way, we were open to discuss different instruments, yes, in fact all the instruments that would come up in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2356	Now we're out of speaking time. Then we should be done with the line chord shift. We now have three speakers who have signed up for five minutes' posts, and one who has signed up for three minutes' speeches on the list of speakers. There has been a fairly wide debate, and the President can hardly see that there are some parties' views that have not emerged, so the President hopes it is possible to limit the number of three-minute posts. It's going to be quite many long evenings during this week, and it's late at night already.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2363	I think we should spend time here in the Chamber on three-minute posts until the Council of State has received the answers that the Council of State wants from Stortinget. There are two people who have the opportunity in such a debate to have an unlimited number of posts. It is the case-rapporteur who is Eirin Fallen from the Workers' Party, and that is the Council of State. So I suggest that the two continue with three-minute posts until all questions are settled. I don't understand that it's going to be so terribly difficult for the Council of State to understand the main features of the funding model that the majority here outlines. Then there are some details that need to be designed. And again – I invite the Council of State to say from this pulpit that it can do it by October, if desired. And it is very desirable for the Storting, and obviously also for the kindergarten sector, that it is clearly as early as possible. So it's a full opportunity at the end of September to write that funding model into government budget proposals, and describe it in that context, so that we can deal with this in the Storting as early as last autumn. It is to the extent possible to make a separate case about it even during the autumn, if it is desirable to do so before Christmas. It's all the way up to the council. I have the impression that this debate sometimes forgets who is really in favour of this agreement and this policy. It is not primarily made for the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, which has sent out a press release that has been quoted extensively from here, as someone clearly believes we should have done. It is not even primarily made for the Local Governments' Central Association, which others may have been concerned about. It is primarily made for the children and for their parents. And when representatives here in the hall say you haven't seen positive reactions, you have to live in a different country than I do. I have almost only met positive reactions from those to whom this is directed, namely parents who have children in kindergarten, and to some extent also from those children who have brought with them what this contains, but above all from their parents. We're going to have full babysitting, 80 pst. government grants, the price shall be reduced to NOK 1500 and the quality requirements shall be maintained. The only uncertainty and concern of the parents that I have heard is whether this is really feasible, and whether it is really possible to get the money that is needed to make this a reality. I understand that uncertainty very well, especially if you listen to the statements of the government parties. Because that's what's the key to getting full babysitting and a price of 1500 kroner. The Christian People's Party even said in the election campaign that the price would be less than NOK 1500. Anyone who wants it will have a children's garden space of less than NOK 1500. How to fulfill the promise without going into a model that ensures that the price would be less than NOK 1500, and that one would pay what it costs to get full babysitting, it is relatively incomprehensible to me. We have not yet received a good answer to that question. So in the debate here we get essentially counter-arguments of a technical nature: what about that detail, what about that detail, what about that detail? Yeah, it's like the Stortinget has a device to figure out and figure out the technical details, and it's called the government apparatus and departments. We use that now, and ask them to come back with the technical solutions. And if the government parties are unhappy that they have the task of running the departments and conducting that investigation, they'll find something else to do. Then we see that someone is threatening to stop in kindergarten. Yes, the municipalities have a statutory obligation to expand kindergartens under this agreement. They get a boost, they get 80 pst. government grants are covered by the State and a transitional phase is granted in respect of operations. And there is also an answer to the committee leader who asked a question here earlier, which she apparently did not get a proper answer to. The parental payment is going to get a ceiling of $2,500, while you get 80 pst. grants, i.e.: that you get more money than it actually costs to run the nursery in order to be able to change for an entire year. If the PBL stops the kindergarten development, the municipalities will have to assume the responsibility that will lie within the statutory obligation to expand kindergartens in order to meet the legal requirement in 2005. I understand that someone who runs kindergartens is tired because one can no longer push the costs unlimitedly over to the parents. But we politicians shouldn't be sorry for that. We're going to be happy with the parents who couldn't afford to have babysitting or who are struggling with their private economy because of expensive kindergartens. What is important is that the money comes, that you commit to implementing this agreement. We have four parties who have signed the agreement, commit to it, and obtain the money in each year's budget. It would have been a relief and would have removed a lot of the uncertainty that the government parties are so worried about, if the council came to the pulpit here and said, "Yes, we should do the same." Then the certainty that this was carried out would be even greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2382	The President shall not start a discussion with Trond Giske as to whether it is more to draw out of this debate, but the President shall stand firm in his judgements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2385	Hill-Marta Solberg is calling for joy from the government parties. I have to admit, I'm more amazed at the tone of the opposition, because here it's not much fun to track. No, one appears to be somewhat offended, offended by the fact that the private kindergartens do not take the wave for the Columbia eggs that SV, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have hatched. It is not popular to quote from a press release from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager from the government parties. The press release that they have sent out today is, in effect, a crushing judgment against the agreement reached by the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party. They write: ‘SV and Frp’s original ‘doc-8 proposals’ had many weaknesses. Following the agreement they have now concluded with AP and SP, we have received a proposal that is not to live with.” One must almost have the boldness of Giske or Djupedal to stand on this platform and say that those who have started and run kindergartens – many from idealism – are wrong, it is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV who are right. We'll almost have hope – for the children. There is a great deal of confusion in the agreement that has been presented, and not so much has been clarified during this debate. One of the central questions I asked to the Progress Party, but which I do not think I have been answered, is: How can one defend that the children who have entered the most beautiful kindergarten, who may have specialised staff, and who have the most beautiful outdoor areas, will receive more public subsidies than the children who may be in a shed of an unskilled kindergarten? How can you defend the priority of those who have been given kindergarten in front of those who have not been given kindergarten? And how can you defend that wealthy young children's parents should save up to $30,000 per year? years, while those sitting at the bottom of the table may have to pay more? And then we talk about distribution policy! This is going in the opposite direction. The Labour Party is now doing what Thorbjørn Jagland has strongly warned against. In his letter of 29 April he warned against the Workers' Party becoming a support wheel for the populist alliance of SV and the Progress Party. He writes: ‘The easiest thing to do is to have a majority of expenditure increases. Frp, SV and Ap can handle this in many areas. But is it realistic at all that these parties can agree on an entire state budget so that matters can be implemented? I don't think so." These are wise words from Thorbjørn Jagland. It is not without reason that government parties ask how the opposition intends to finance its promises. I register that Hill-Marta Solberg again refers to the Defense. But the truth is that the Workers' Party has promised to grant NOK 1 billion more than the government parties of the Defense next year. The reality is that the Workers' Party has promised to lower the tax on companies with high depreciation needs. The reality is that the Workers' Party has promised more to the municipalities. And the reality is that the Workers' Party has promised to grant more to – mostly – most purposes. Then the question is, how are you going to finance this? Should the three parties agree to increase the tax? Then I would like to see the representative Siv Jensen. Are these parties going to start cutting the school budget? Or is the Workers' Party supposed to cut the municipal economy? That's the truth that Thorbjørn Jagland also mentioned in his letter of 29 April, that things have to be put into context. And that was also an important reason why government parties couldn't join. For that context, we have to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2408	A common promise for children and children’s day – it was 11 June 2002. On that day, a majority on the Stortinget, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, marked that they take both the children and the parents seriously. The day was historic. But the nice thing about this day was that there will be many other days in the future that will create a good start on the growth of children in this country – and the security of their parents. The agreement on more and cheaper kindergartens has been received with joy in addition to the country, although some in this room have claimed the opposite. Some people keep what they promised in the election campaign. All the parties promised more and cheaper kindergartens, but when the promises are really to be fulfilled, the government parties jump off – and with the Christian People's Party, which still goes around claiming that they are the family party in front of some. Why didn't they join the agreement to which the Workers' Party invited? It is the opposition parties that are now implementing the Christian People's Party promised in the election campaign. I have received many signals that people from all over the country have noticed the views of the Prime Minister's party. Full child care coverage has been a battle cause for the Workers' Party and – not least – for the women's movement. Norway needs women in the workplace and in the boardrooms. Now women can get the real choice. I know that young, well-schooled women want to go out to work, but they also want to start family and become parents. And we are now making this right – with more and cheaper kindergartens. This is good equality policy. Kindergartens in Norway are of good quality. The working party has been very concerned that quality should not be reduced by making kindergartens cheaper. Children shall continue to learn to play with other children, take into account and develop knowledge and linguistic competence. We are only sorry that not all children have now had this opportunity because of lack of space and sky-high kindergarten prices in many municipalities. It shall not be such that the size of the parents’ wallet determines whether the children should be able to go to kindergarten. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has four main principles: life and health education and development participation and care and protection; This applies to all children, including immigrant children. This agreement may also be a victory for children with a minority background. We know that kindergarten prices have been one of the reasons why children in immigrant families stay at home with their parents until they begin school as six-year-olds. I now hope that many more with a minority background will choose to have their children in kindergarten, so that the Norwegian language comes in as a natural part before they begin school. Many people believe that the cash support is gone with cheaper babysitting services. It had not been me and the Workers' Party, but we will at least see if the cash support becomes a ‘cleaner’ system where one of the parents is really at home with their children. We know that it's just 4 pst. who chooses to be home with the children, and then we talk of course about mother. Father is as much away from the children as before, says the evaluation. Could these three billions of cash support have been used for something more targeted, perhaps just for those with bad advice, for which the government parties in this debate have been so very concerned? We know that kindergarten development was halted in 1997 with the introduction of the cash support from the Bondevik I government, but that the Bondevik II government is now pushing the problems of lack of 40,000 kindergartens and sky-high prices ahead, with the reason for the lack of investigation, is and becomes incomprehensible. Safe kindergartens provide safe children, says the owners of the organisation Safe Kinderhager. – Quite right and necessary in a globalised world. It's urgent to get started, and more people here tonight have explained how the process is going, and how we're already doing this year with incentives to the municipalities. I expect the Government to now follow up the majority decision, which is broadly in line with the Government Party's commitment to the 2001 election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2445	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2448	How long are we going to figure out the consequences? How many choices are we going to break? And how many times are we going to break them? The long debate we have had and the lengthy debates that have been on this document No. The 8 proposal has resulted in a predictable settlement both for municipalities and for private kindergartens. The private kindergartens have never been near such predictability. Major reforms always have some challenges. We know that who have a long political career from Municipality-Norway and from counties. If we don't have the ability in this room to make decisions before we have detailed investigations, we're on site resting, and we've done that for a very, very long time in this case. I have also marveled at an argument that has been used countless times in this debate, not so much here today, but in the press and in debates we have had here in Stortingen before: you have to have full child care coverage before you can reduce the price, otherwise it is unfair. This is an argument that I have never heard before in my political life. You probably don't want to give older homes because you don't have room for everyone! In this nursery agreement, more is being taken at once. And this is a deal that's good for kids and their families. It has been said here today that I am honest, and that I have been unsure of the agreement that is here. What I said, and what many others have also said, is that today's operating aid is calculated by an average based on age and residence time. That's the way it'll be for the future. The parties to the agreement are aware that the cost analysis today is not based on a sufficient number of material. We have therefore asked for an annual cost analysis, and the Government will come to Stortingen with the first cost analysis in spring 2003. But as a representative from the Workers' Party says, we'd like to take it before. If there is then an unexpected increase in costs, such as: increased interest, payroll, etc., what do you do? Then we say that in the case of this scheme, there will be an annual cost analysis, and on the basis of these calculations, there will be adjusted rates, both in the case of the State operating grant, in the case of the buffer, and in the case of the parental benefit. So it says in point 2 of the agreement -- that's what I said in my post, but I'll say it one more time: ‘If the needs studies and cost analyses show significant deviations from the basis on which this agreement is based, the parties agree to make the necessary changes to the agreement together.’;» This is a good deal. This is a victory for the four games that are behind it. And it must be sad not to be in this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2472	In order not to provoke more than necessary so late in the evening, I will not ask why the representative Giske was at the maximum rate in April, but is for now. I also hope that this time, this time, Gish will make his statement on behalf of the majority when he expresses his opinion on changes to the agreement. Maybe I can get back to the side. We had a real challenge in terms of the Christian People's Party saying that the price should be NOK 1500 for a kindergarten, and that it could also be below it. We're actually based on a response from the then state councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, who said that by introducing an 80 pst. government grants and with a 20 pst. It's going to give you $1,500 and maybe even below it. But we've said 20 pst. It is a much more flexible and appropriate scheme than a rigid maximum price. Then there's someone who's shocked that we want to figure out. Usually, the Storting asks for investigations, and the duty of the elected representatives to get us to know the consequences of the decisions we are actually taking. It also applies here in the nursery sector. Although we may feel that we are complaining, there are a few questions that we are actually sincerely looking for an answer to. It is: Should student children's gardens be financed from the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research? There is one point in the agreement that they should be under the Ministry of Education and Research. Are they also going under the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs? We need an answer to that. What we need to answer is, what are the objective criteria? It's a little bit too thin just to set objective criteria in that buffer pot. We need an answer to what it is. There are also some other things in relation to farm children's gardens. Are farm children's gardens the only ones to get away from the max? And in relation to the maximum rate, are you allowed to take less than the price that the majority of the population ate in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2487	When you are able to ask questions about whether you are allowed to take less than a maximum fare, I understand that this agreement seems relatively confusing. Then I understand that we have to use the night and the morning quiz to explain the individual parts. Of course, you can take less than a maximum rate. That's why it's called maximum fare. The maximum tariff means that. That means you can't take over the maximum rate, but of course you can give a free nursery if you believe that 80 pst. covers what you need to drive the nursery. I find it hard to understand, except that you're brave, that you have to put a ceiling on how much kindergartens are going to cost your parents – what the disagreement between the government parties and us is really going on. It's not about the goal of full child-care, it's about to be fully established. Everyone wants full babysitting. It doesn't matter that it should be 80 pst. government grants, no, they shall be. That's what you're up to. State Secretary Odd Anders With wrote a press release on 27 June 2001, in which he even entered in order for all grants to be collected in one state grant, i.e. to withdraw EUR 3 billion from the local government sector in order to provide it with a direct grant. What dramatic consequences it would have had — without buffers either in the municipality or in the county — can only be imagined. He said to achieve "a cheek egg effect". Now it turns out that this was the world's biggest disappointment with Children's Eggs. There was nothing in it at all. There is no disagreement in equality between public and private kindergartens. There is no disagreement in the case of lower parental pay. And it's just not right what the representative Dagrun Eriksen says, because what Bondevik promised on the website of the Christian People's Party, was the nursery for anyone who wants it for less than $1,500 per. months. We were honest enough in the election campaign to say that we went in for an average price of NOK 1500. It said that everyone who wanted it would get it for less than $1,500. It's not possible to do that with an average price of NOK 1500, because immediately someone gets a place of NOK 1450, a few have to get it for NOK 1550 if you're going to get an average of NOK 1500. So this promise was probably never meant seriously. There is no disagreement about a graduation in relation to sibling moderation and income moderation. The only difference is that someone wants to keep it in the municipality or not say anything about it. We want a national system. We're going to get to the nucleus. The core is that we have spent SEK 1.3 billion next year on kindergartens – DKK 5.5 billion until 2005. During this whole debate, we have never received a response from the government parties on how much they were willing to contribute to their budget for 2003. That was where the negotiations broke down, because you were simply not willing to pay the bill for the promises you actually made, and even got some votes on. So you weren't willing to do that. That's why you might get a little frustrated, because you're simply undressed in relation to your election vows. When we get to 2005, and we've got full babysitting, and we've got the price down to NOK 1500, I think the story's verdict on those who were against it is going to be relatively hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2505	Guttorm Hansen had a tendency to sink together in the presidential chair. As the debate approached the end, he let go of his eyes, for then he did not see anyone asking for the word. I thought I'd start with the same technique.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2510	I just thought I would end the debate the following way, because the government is constantly asking questions about things they have not been told, they say. Now, to the best of our ability, we have tried to clarify what is the majority's view on this matter, but I hear that the same questions are repeated again. That's why I just want to say to the Government that we, who make up the majority, are at any time willing to engage in dialogue with the Government on how this should be designed. If the government thinks there are uncertainties, we can figure this out together around a table. The government has as far as we can see, driven by extensive obstruction, misunderstandings and disinformation about what that agreement is. We're now trying to find the best way to solve this. Of course, if the Council of State needs it, it's a wise way to approach the ambiguity that these parties that make up the majority sit together around the Council of State's table – or anywhere else it might be desirable – so that you don't experience a situation in the Grand Council where the Council of State presents something that is obviously not in line with the majority of people here wanted. The principles of this financing model are explicitly confirmed in this agreement. What is unclear in the agreement is only related to the actual nature of the costs in this sector. That's what we need from the Department. But we are, of course, even though the Council of State and her government and not least her party here in Stortinget have so far driven with extensive disinformation, interested in a dialogue to make this as beneficial to the children as possible. It is the most important and SV's starting point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2521	When I listened to the first half of Øystein Djupedal's posts, I thought I would let him finish this debate, because he started inviting him to cooperate. It would have been a good and constructive end to this debate. It is a position of the representative that we have not met earlier in this process. But then when you add that what you've met from the government parties is ‘obstruction’ and ‘disinformation’, Øystein Djupedal does exactly what he himself warns against, namely, to push the parties apart. What has been problematic in this matter is in particular two aspects. Trond Giske was in on one of them, that there are limits to how great promises a government can give. We know that if something is given priority, something else has to be given priority. Today we discuss kindergartens. Later this week we will discuss local economy. We're going to discuss school. In other words, we need to see the whole thing, and that's the whole thing we've missed in the other parties. The second key issue in this debate is all the uncertainties related to the maximum tariff. Government parties fear that a rigid maximum tariff will provide fewer and no more kindergartens. We fear that it will go beyond quality, and we think it is grossly unfair that some children should be subsidized more than others just because they go into a better kindergarten. But let me finish with Øystein Djupedal's words: Let's now try to work together on a better solution. There he will discover that the government parties will meet the opposition with an open mind, an open mind that we felt was not as strong on the other side of the table during the negotiations on the nursery agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2532	When I listen to Jan Tore Sanner's approach to this matter, I hope it's more than I'm recording that the approach of the government parties to the economy of the kindergarten business is completely different than it is in all other matters we've dealt with this spring. When the voting here in the hall is started, probably in less than that many minutes, we're going to have to. adopt an operating budget of more than DKK 3 billion. The size has not discussed any common containment for it today, but a common objective has been set, that it should be implemented. This means, of course, that a prioritisation has been carried out, whereas the government parties, because of their non-participation in this agreement, have systematically challenged funding in the nursery sector. They do not do so in other areas, including defence. A lot of other big things could be mentioned. Nor should it be surprising to the governments that the majority of the population, who actually choose to give priority to kindergartens in as concrete a way as this agreement shows, are incomprehensible that the government parties are thus problematic. The explanation is, as has been said earlier this evening, that it was not possible for the sitting government to put on the table an economy that made it possible to secure kindergartens at the pace that the majority of people wanted, nor to ensure that the parental payment went down at the pace that the Stortinget wanted. I hope at least that the Council of State and her department will put this 'fear' that we heard about in Jan Tore Sanner's posts, that she will take the decision that the Stortinget will make in this matter, back to her department, and that the Council of State, as we could also interpret her, will do its best to find a good solution to this matter. I would also like to repeat the invitation that came from the parties to the agreement before tonight. There is nothing wrong with the fact that the Council of State and its Department can at any time call on the Contracting Parties to discuss aspects of this matter. Should it be that there is a fundamental problem, as the Council of State also pointed out, that it can take time before a funding model can be presented to the Stortinget – yes, then the Council of State is welcome to promote the matter to the Stortinget earlier. I hope that the uncertainties that remain can be resolved in the course of the process between magnificence and government, and that the government parties and the government councils will not get off to work with fear of both the one and the other, because then, unfortunately, I do not think it will be easy to comply with the wishes of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2545	Øystein Djupedal – please! Øystein Djupedal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2548	It's tended to have to use the pulpit at this time. But I just have to say to the representative Sanner that the invitation that the majority came with is not an invitation to open the book, which the government parties themselves chose not to join. It is clear that the majority has taken a firm decision here, but if the Government perceives that there may be difficulties in this that it has not understood, even though we have now tried to explain it, we who make up the majority will at any time be willing to engage in dialogue with the Department and the Council of State on what the Council of State and its Department may perceive as ambiguities. Let it be clear that the government was invited to participate in this. The government parties here in the house chose to close the book, because they didn't have money for an extensive bet on kindergartens. But if there are still uncertainties, and if they regret that they closed the book, we have invited them from our side to join in to get the widest possible settlement. I must say that today's debate did not exactly signal that the government is on this track. But it is possible that the Council of State might later see that a dialogue with the settlement parties might be wise on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2555	I think we now at the bottom of the debate could be so honest that we acknowledged that this is about the willingness to bet on children. So when the government parties don't try to explain the reason why they wouldn't be there, it's actually because there's money there's questions about this case. We can also be so honest and admit that the election promises that the Christian People's Party spoke about in the election campaign, they have not added money to the budget. This is why it is felt that government parties will not be involved, for example. the incentive allowance. It costs money – yes! But if you want to, you get another one. There are no questions, for example, when it comes to concluding defence agreements. Then you have a chance, and then you want it. So it's the kids that you don't want to bet on, and I think you should be so honest that you say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2562	I agree that we should be honest, but when Solberg's representative says that we've dealt with this promise differently than many other things we've dealt with, that might be right. But why? For example, the matter of the Opera is being handled here a number of times, there are leading analyses and elaborate plans, and it's entered into a healing in the government's budget. I can remind the representative, Mr Solberg, that it has actually been a good thing here, because both finance ministers and parliamentary leaders from the late Labour Party government, and the previous Labour Party government, etc., have explained that one must see things in one's health. It's strange that right now, one shouldn't do it. So to the repeated claim that the government party wouldn't be involved. It's a blank lie. We'd be there, but on two points, the point of view is different. One was that we stood by everything we said in the election campaign, but we said that we didn't do such a rapid escalation as the three parties, which had started working, would. And then there was another point: we said we were willing to go for a principle of a roof, but then we wanted to figure out what kind of models to use before it was introduced. And then it was said by the representative Fallen that we were not willing to go in for stimuli. Well, we were willing to go in for stimulation. So that's not exactly what I'm saying here. It's true that we had a different amount in the first year, but we said that corrected for annual spending on what is full needs coverage, the need should be covered during the accumulation period. It was similar to what was said in the election campaign. So the Christian People's Party has not gone away from a single promise, but at two points we separated teams: we wanted to continue to negotiate anyway, but it was told that if we didn't want to go for the two points that I have named here, i.e., a maximum without any payments, and agree to a larger amount of the first year and not to distribute it over several years, then one wouldn't. And then there's reason to remind you that the exact Workers' Party in the defense agreement has gone for 118 billion in total, but the first year would be a postponement of the billion. It's strange that we couldn't postpone a little in relation to the first year of the nursery agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2571	For its part, the President wants to say that accusing other gamblers of lying is quite a powerful diet. I hope the representative himself stands for the words he has chosen. Hill-Marta Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2576	It's right after bedtime for most people, but it's a little bit of a diet when the representative Lilletun goes to Stortinget's pulpit and accuses the majority of the parties on the Stortinget of running a blank lie. I have to say that I take a very strong distance from, not least because I have had the role of leading the negotiations that have been conducted in the Great Britain on kindergartens. Then I would say yes, the Workers' Party is a priority. We're giving kindergarten priority already by investing in incentives this year. Today it has been problematic that there is almost a stop in kindergarten development. Could the representative Lilletun and the government parties imagine what would have happened this year if they had got their solution through, namely to wait until next year with incentives? Who would think of building a nursery this year? It would then be pointless to build a single nursery until next year. I can assure Lilletun that the Workers' Party sees things as a whole. Our bet on kindergartens is within a comprehensive and responsible framework. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2585	Very short: Lilletun gets the word after me, so he's going to have the chance to answer what no one else has given us an answer to: How much money was it government parties willing to add to the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2591	First, to the President's attention to the fact that there was a strong diet. I agree with that. But at the same time, when the debt is that we gave the promise we didn't intend to fulfill, I have to say that the debt is so that when we actually wanted to fulfill it, I can't see any other definition of that statement than that it's a blank lie. But I can rephrase it and say that at least those who have brought those debts take a serious mistake about what we had thought. So how much we were going to add. During the four-year period, we had planned to apply exactly as much as was necessary to get full child care coverage. The government party had intended to start lower than the other negotiating parties, but corrected for a settlement every year about how high we had to go to reach full coverage during the period, we should have fulfilled what we had said before the election. It's easy to go for full babysitting. And just like the plural party doesn't now know what this agreement will cost when we're done with this period, we can't say that either, but what we'd thought was that we'd get full pediatric coverage together. And it stands firm. Since I actually have one minute left, and we've been through this round, I'm going to say, as the Council of State has done before, that of course it's now important for the kids and families to say that we find models that are practical, that we find good solutions, and that we also have dialogue about those solutions. The representative Geske asked at the end of the debate: Who is unsemja? Yes, I answered every problem was right now: it was about how much we were going to spend the first year, and that we wanted to pay a maximum rate or a roof before we made a decision. So we're also adding usemja to the table here. We are at any time willing to negotiate and find good solutions to achieve what both the Christian People's Party and others promised in the election campaign, namely full child care coverage during this great age.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2602	The President will then state that a non-serious rewording is not to be regarded as either a complaint or an apology. The President will very emphatically stress that the President does not think it is right for this great thing to add to a language as the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party has done here. It's the President who expresses it. So, of course, any representative can say exactly what he wants in the hall and take the consequences that may be of it. The representative of Trond Giske has asked for the floor. He has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2607	It's touching to hear the Christian People's Party's involvement in the investigation, an old cash support party that got it introduced in the course of a few weeks in the autumn of 1997. It cannot be correct what the representative Lilletun says, because in a press release on 11 June 2002 when the agreement is on the table, Lilletun is concerned because the parties that have signed the agreement do not tell where they want to get the money from. It means in plain text that the party of the Christian People's Party has never intended to deposit the money needed to complete full child care coverage, 80 pst. public coverage and a kindergarten price of around 1500 kroner. In the election campaign, they didn't just promise kindergarten places for anyone who wants to do it, for less than $1,500 per person. month, but they promised to raise the cash support by 500 kroner, half a billion extra at cost, and to extend the paper issue by six weeks. I think the representative Sanner released the cat from the bag when he said it was about prioritizing. You can't promise everything, and you don't have room for everything, and the Christian People's Party has lost to the Right in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2616	Jon Lilletun has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2619	I don't have a lot of trouble to complain if I've expressed myself more strongly than the president thinks there's a reason, but then I'll also believe that the president will find it problematic that someone owes the Christian People's Party for never having intended to carry out their promises. I can't say that either is directly factual in relation to what we've been talking about right now. Then I will explain what was meant in this press release. It was the following: when an intervention into a year's budget that is so close, in the way that the pluralist parties here have done, I have expressed that so much money we didn't have the first year. During the ageing period, we were going to complete the financing. Therefore, this press release is not contrary to anything else I have said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3233]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2634	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2641	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3-9, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 3-9, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The proposal for a new agricultural agreement is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The existing system of agricultural agreements is repealed.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies and other State financial measures in relation to agriculture in the context of the State budget without prior negotiations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies for the remaining part of the current financial year with a framework of 1950 million. krona lower than the approved budget at cap. 1150 for the implementation of the agricultural agreement.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Sale of Goods Act.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Purchase Farming Act.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for cows’ milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is made nationally.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2698	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government in the preparation of guidelines for the resale of the State share of allowances to pay particular attention to the need to put free capacity into use in the production apparatus.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to introduce a separate compensation scheme for the costs of castration of pigs for a transitional period until the prohibition of castration enters into force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2876	President! I would like to make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2883	Turn around for an explanation of vote – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2886	The Government Party and the Progress Party have not supported IV and have said that these parties will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2893	We'll get to IV later. Now I, II and III are being addressed to voting. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2913	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against. The Progress Party has said that they will support the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2918	President! We also have to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2925	All right. Then the President is misinformed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e2941	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the adjustment of the reindeer to the fixed reindeer figure for the Vest-Finnmark reindeer grazing area before 1 April 2004’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3034	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3049	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the removal of existing provisions relating to the annual concession obligation for all-year-old dwellings.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3074	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Britt Hildeng, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposals No. 5-7, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to provide that in the case of artificial fertilisation, written consent shall be required only on initial testing when both parents live by further testing.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that insemination with spouse’s or cohabitant’s semen through the ‘AIH method’ is not covered by the authorisation scheme for artificial insemination methods.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that approved private laboratories can also carry out genetic examinations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3110	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow research into surplus fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning that can generate stem cells to be permitted in Norway from 1 January 2003.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size is requested by the Government to approve the microinjection ‘ICSI’ in combination with the collection of matured seed cells from bites and testicles as the method of fertilisation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish professional environments for the prevention of preimplantation diagnosis in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to ensure that the number of ultrasound examinations in pregnancy is still determined by the individual physician in cooperation with the pregnant woman and that the doctor also provides information to the woman on the findings made, even before the 12th week of pregnancy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3165	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Gunn Olsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by Mr Odelsting's meeting on 6 June 2002. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 51):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3187	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3202	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:84 [[2002-2002]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17-2.ana.ud761e3227	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the plan for the development of Bjørvika. Including assessing cheaper road solutions than the one outlined, in which the properties of Bjørvika are re-regulated for office, business, housing and infrastructure building areas, etc., and that the properties can then be sold freely and built out by the future owners.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the toll rates in Oslo will not be increased in excess of the current price of NOK 15 for passenger cars.’
