ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e70	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen applies for leave on 7 and 8 March to take part in the Nordic Council delegation to the Benelux Interparliamentary Assembly in Luxembourg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Ottar Kaldhol, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e88	Ottar Kaldhol is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e93	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e98	I'd like to suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e103	Mr. Finn Martin Vallersnes is proposed as President-in-Office of the Council. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e124	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e137	It may sometimes seem that some environments believe that the discovery of large quantities of oil and gas — at least the extraction of the fields — is a major accident. Environmental challenges are being listened to, but we must not forget that oil and gas deposits have been a major contributor to our well-being for decades. Therefore, it is with great pleasure that I, on behalf of a broad majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, put forward a recommendation to approve the development of the gas fields Snow White, Albatross and Ashkeladd. The snow-white fields were discovered in 1984. The fields contain mainly gases with small amounts of condensate. The field is planned exclusively with underwater wells, pipeline transport to Melkøya just outside Hammerfest, where CO2 from natural gas is separated and this CO2 is returned for reinjection through the same pipeline system. So it will not be released by them. 7 pst. CO2 included in the gas. The purified gas will be cooled in a liquefied LNG facility and transported by special ships to customers. The process of making natural gas liquid requires energy. The power demand shall be covered by four, later five gas turbines, which are connected to the power generator. The gas turbines have a high efficiency and the best available technical equipment is used. However, there is a significant emissions of CO2 from the energy plant, calculated for approx. 860,000 tonnes. Emissions of NOx and VOC are small. The plant is planned to start at the end of 2005. The project has been assessed to have a robust economy. Total investments, including new shipbuilding programmes, are estimated at over NOK 40 billion. The majority of the Committee has given particular attention to the following aspects: the economy of the project and the quality assurance of investment health, the environment and the safety of personnel, both in the construction and operational phases, in widely ensuring that environmental aspects are put into focus; The Ministry has assessed the economy of the project and considers it to be an economically robust project, on the basis of the calculations submitted. Health, environment and safety are of course important for the area around the underwater installations and at the Melkøya plant. But it is also important because this is the first expansion in the Barents Sea, and it is necessary to establish a minimum standard for any later expansion, whether it be on the Norwegian side or on the Russian side of the divider line. It is therefore clarified that the Oil Directorate must ensure that the builder provides good systems and procedures for the HMS work. It is particularly the environmental risk that has been the focus of the Committee's decision. Although there are slightly different views among researchers, the majority of the Committee has taken the view that the Barents Sea is vulnerable, with difficult conditions for possible remediation after a planned discharge into the sea. It is natural that the effects of the development on fish stocks have been central. The opinions of fishermen in the region have been positive. Fishermen and their organisations have assumed that Snow White is a gas project. It is equally clear that in the further development of petroleum activities in the Barents Sea, where oil extraction may also be involved, the issue of the impact on fisheries will become more focused. The fact that Snow White is a gas project with a closed system from the extraction installations of the LNG facility makes emissions by sea very unlikely. On land, a biological sewage treatment plant is planned to ensure that no environmentally harmful emissions to the sea from land use facilities occur. Snow White is a limited project that has been assessed specifically. The majority of the Committee does not wish to open up further petroleum activities in the area until a broader impact assessment of the northern regions, including the Barents Sea, has been carried out. In particular, the majority of the Committee points out that the CO2 emissions from the Melkøya energy plant are high, approximately equivalent to the CO2 emissions from the Melköya energy plant. 2 pst. of the total emissions of CO2 from Norway. The majority ask the Ministry to make greater efforts to test new technologies to reduce emissions in Norway. It is appropriate to consider the construction of a pilot plant to test technology for the separation of CO2 from the exhaust gases and primarily reinject CO2 as pressure support in oil wells. Of course, environmental concerns are triggered by the development and production of Snow White, and the majority are therefore concerned that such new technologies may be installed there. However, the Committee has recorded the technical and economic problems presented by the operator in order to develop such an installation on Melkoya. It may therefore be appropriate to establish a pilot project for CO2 abatement technologies in relation to another installation. The majority of the Committee asks the Ministry to ensure that a timely plan is drawn up for this purpose. The Committee is pleased that Melkøya will be deployed for future CO2 abatement plants when the technology is in place. The Committee is aware that operators and rightholders must apply for an SFT emission permit, as well as for an NVE energy concession. Furthermore, the Committee is aware that Bellona has sent a complaint to ESA in connection with the decision of the Stortinget under Ot.prp. No 16 for 2001-2002 on amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act. These issues will not be clarified until the end of 2002 or the beginning of 2003. The majority of the Committee states that operators and rightholders must bear the risk of the outcome of these cases. The development of Snow White will be a significant step towards making our gas business more competitive and will open new, significant markets for Norwegian natural gas. LNG technology makes us independent of complex pipeline systems into different markets, as shown by the fact that the main amount of Snow White gas is pre-sold on long-term contracts to the United States and Spain. The start-up of the construction and production of Snow White will provide a significant economic recovery for our northernmost part of the country. Partly, of course, the construction phase will provide many jobs, and further, the operation will provide more lasting jobs. But the most important thing, as I see it, is the significant development of competence and transfer of competences that will take place, and that will have long-term effects on the entire population of our northernmost regions. Sub-contracting, services — both technical and commercial — should be set up extensively, etc. It is likely that many young people will continue to live in the region, and many young people who have obtained education and jobs elsewhere in the country will want to move back. This can provide really great opportunities in a district policy perspective. But the most important thing is, of course, that we are able to exploit the large gas deposits found to the delight of our entire society, and that we can use this investment to get a step closer to CO2 cleaning of waste gases from energy and gas power plants. It is claimed from some that Snow White is a project that has not been properly evaluated, neither environmentally nor economically. This isn't right. Impact assessment of Snow White has been carried out, with consultation deadlines and evaluation of the consultation opinions. The Bondevik II government also postponed the treatment in the department for a few months to allow better time to enter the recordings in the consultation round. I would also repeat: because Snow White is a gas project in a closed system from the offshore extraction equipment of the LNG facility, the emission risk to water is considered to be minimal. The plant is planned to be equipped with the best available technology and a biological sewage treatment plant shall be built in order to ensure that emissions to the sea from land use facilities are prevented. But the expansion of a high-tech plant to beyond NOK 40 billion will never be entirely risk-free. I have never heard of new investments in this magnitude that is! The task of the budget must be to impose on the ministry, as far as possible, to ensure that the assumptions underlying the prospectus are properly followed up. Environmental tests are timely in the sense that it is always important and useful to highlight the hazards. That is why the majority of the Committee has concentrated so much of its comments on the environmental aspects of the development plans. The sewerage industry has participated in consultations on the project. There may be some disadvantage to the industry with an expansion of the Kvlöya business based on hot water and cooling water from the LNG facility. However, no decisive objection has been raised. The merger has also pointed out to the Ministry that joint ownership of the gas bodies. A number of committees ask representatives to address these questions with the Ministry. The municipality of Finmark County and the municipality of Hammerfest have also been required to participate in the organisation and financing of the transfer of hot water and cooling water to Kvaløya, among others. to the intended farming of fish. The majority of the Committee agrees that builders on behalf of the licence should contribute to the establishment and organisation of activities that may benefit from those resources. As regards the requirement to participate in other infrastructure measures, the government fraction considers that this must be a relationship between local authorities and rightholders. Otherwise, I refer to the Committee's comments and recommend the Committee's recommendation to I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e197	I refer you to the Committee's comments and the vote on the decision and what the rapporteur just said about the handling of CO2. I ask the case rapporteur to confirm that the observations of the majority and, if any, the decision on CO2 cannot be understood in such a way as to impose specific measures on Snow White beyond what the operator has planned. As pointed out by the rapporteur, it also provides scope for development beyond that which leads directly from the development. It would obviously be wrong if the cooling water were to go straight into the ocean, that it would go to play to say that, when it could be used to develop the marine industry. One of the main limitations on the development of the aquaculture industry in the northernmost areas is the lack of smolt. The use of the cooling water may result in a faster production of smolt, both salmon and cod, which is an important prerequisite for the development of this industry. Why is the right approach to the necessary measures to be able to use the cooling water in this way, and instead opens up the possibility of a situation where the cooling water is brought back to the sea, rather than contributing to very useful business activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e204	I can confirm that the discussion within the Committee has gone as follows: the Snow White project itself triggers or triggers the need to go further in research into CO2-free gas power. With the objections we have received from the operator and builder, the Committee has seen and recognised that it is unlikely appropriate to have a pilot plant on Melkoya. Therefore, the very conclusion is somewhat vague. We don't want to let go completely that Snow White is what makes you take this up, but it might be faster and give you better effect if you get a pilot plant somewhere else. I fully agree with the representative that it is important to use the cooling water and hot water for industrial activities, and the most nearby is aquaculture. On the other hand, the Right and Christian People's Party did not want to go in concretely and demand co-financing, nor have they tried to quantify it. But our comment is quite clear on this: we want Statoil as the operator and the rightholders to contribute. It is that one can form a company together, or by other means contribute to the exploitation of these important resources. We haven't gone against it, but we didn't want to put a concrete commitment on the builder.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e211	As the businessman Onarheim used to be, the representative Onarheim is aware of the long-term importance of our business life. Now, the so-called business community Right-wing is in favour of not opening up the Barents Sea for further petroleum activities until an impact assessment has been carried out on the whole of the Barents Sea area, and it is not exactly petty to say so. The consequences of such a new postponement will be many and serious for Norwegian industry and jobs, and there will, of course, be a risk of loss of the necessary competences and market positions. I would like to quote from the Official Journal of Harstad on 30 August last year, where the title reads: ‘Stop all oil operations in the north is to ask for ‘war’ And let me continue to quote: «To ask for full stop in all oil activity outside North Norway for five years is to ask for war. It'll be a dramatic setback for the continent. I believe this is a little constructive overplay after 20 years with trouble-free search activities on the base in the north.It is Høre's energy and environmental spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, who says this." When you hear Onarheim's posts, read the comments in the settings and at the same time read what Jan Tore Sanner said a few months ago, it doesn't matter. Has the Right become completely overrun by the Christian People's Party in this matter and sacrificed future value creation and jobs? Or is there another explanation why the Right has now turned the reel around in the view of oil activity outside of North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e230	The President will recall that issues of war and peace are under the auspices of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e235	Then I'll stay on the peaceful side! The reason why we do not want to open up oil at this time is, of course, that there are strong objections to the impact assessment that has been made. It has been done separately and especially for Snow White. I feel that it must be right to see the Barents Sea as an area that we are not yet fully aware of whether it is more vulnerable than the North Sea or not. I feel that an impact assessment is correct. I also believe that the long-term in this builds up under that reasoning. Because if we are to have a long-term oil and gas extraction in the Barents Sea, it requires us to be sure that we do not have large emissions and major problems that will limit our fishing activities in this area. I will not deny for a moment that it is clear that in a remark in a government cooperation, consideration is given to the parties in the government. But with regard to this point, I feel that just long-termity means that we should be reasonably sure that we are not doing anything wrong, that we have been through the issues that lie there, and in that way we might open up if it turns out that it is possible. Then we need to know that we can do this in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e244	The rapporteur said that there was a robust economy in this project. You might say, as long as the Storing has gone through with the changes in the write-off regime that are here. The reality is that this project is not economically viable and is so uncertain that Statoil did not really want this development. However, due to considerable political pressure and changes in the depreciation rules, Statoil does so. The reality is that there is a robust economy in this project under the given assumption that nothing is happening, and under the tax changes that the Storting has made, with relief from the depreciation provisions that make up an estimated 1 1⁄2 to 2 billion in relief, given that there are no significant overruns. What surprises me is that a man like Onarheim, with a long life in Norwegian business and also with a formed conservative position, who will basically think that it is wrong to subsidize one industry, that it is wrong to subsidize one company, that it is wrong to subsidize a single plant, here chooses to go in and do just that, contrary to what is Right's conservative profile in tax and tax matters, namely that this should be in general. That you want lower taxes and taxes, yes that's a bit separate, that's not what I'm talking about. So here you go in with a generous subsidy to one company, one plant, one industry. And my question to the rapporteur on the matter will then be: does he think this is right? I accept that he thinks it's right because Finnmark is growing, as you say. Okay, leave that piece. But the way to approach a problem or a challenge, to go into that kind of big subsidies to realize a plant, would the Right have done it in any other case? Would the Right have done it related to any other industry? And it's at the top of all of Norway's second-richest company, Statoil, that gets this gift package in the hold of Onarheim and the big crowd.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e251	The representative, Djupedal, and I do not quite agree on what subsidies are, and what is different. Let me say this: this project is important for a lot of reasons. It's the first project that we have up there in the north, it's a gas project that allows us to get another type of distribution of this gas, get out to new markets, and besides, it's in a place that's important for our whole business development. So the question is that in all LNG facilities you get a slightly faster depreciation time than what's normal, is it a subsidy? 1-11⁄2-2 billion, a little depending on how you calculate – can it be said that it is the saving because you are being taxed? This project will pay DKK 50-70 billion in taxes in the lifetime of the project that is now being seen. I think it's quite unreasonable to call it subsidies. Could you not use these billions in another way in Finnmark? When you look at the billions that are used to try to get business going around the country, I don't think the results you've got from it are impressive. So if it was a billion or a half given in relief, it is, if you really get a good development in place in Finnmark and in the northern part of our country, a very good investment that I don't want to have any problem defending no matter what question is asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e261	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e264	For me, it is an honorable task today to be involved in solving through the environmental project, the industrial project, the district project and the technology project Snow White in Stortinget. What we are involved in today is an important contribution to Norway's continued role as a nation that further refines our resources, to the best for the environment, industry, value creation and something that will ultimately benefit its inhabitants and the community. Let me say that Snow White is a gas project. Oil extraction in the Barents Sea is not part of the proposition, nor is it a serious part of this debate. The Committee has clarified that an overall impact assessment must be carried out before further petroleum activities are undertaken in the Barents Sea. We want that because the Barents Sea is a vulnerable sea area, where we need to know the total impact of what we're going to do before it becomes further activity. Basically, extracting the oil and gas resources we have is environmentally harmful. The future will require that we manage to establish a better and more sustainable energy system than we have today. However, in the transition from coal, nuclear power, oil and gas, we must make use of the resources that are best for the environment globally. In this holistic approach, the Snow White project is an environmental project. The LNG facility in Hammerfest is the world's most environmentally friendly LNG facility, or at least environmentally harmful, if one wishes. The Bondevik government has followed up the Workers' Party's work in relation to Snow White. But the government has had an unusually strange approach to the matter. First, the Minister of Oil and Energy promotes the proposal for the Stortinget. Then, in the newspaper on February 15th, he says: ‘I am skeptical of Snow White, but in government, and we follow up what is in the Sem Declaration.’ It makes us in the Workers' Party wonder: Was the Christian People's Party involved in writing the Sem statement? Has the Christian People’s Party had anything they should have said in the government negotiations? Or is the main goal achieved and the satisfaction great enough for the party when they are allowed to sit in government? From the opinion of the Council of State, it must be the last thing that matters to that party. I have never experienced the husband's disclaimer from a government council. And I hope we let go of such loss in the future. It becomes almost impossible to understand that the Council of State is promoting a proposal, which he is opposed to, but for which he wants a majority in the Grand Duchy to implement. I expect the Council of State to clarify the views of the Christian People's Party and the Government in the debate. There can be no point in leading people behind the light! The LNG facility on Snow White will be the world champion in relation to minimising emissions from the process. Nearly half of the CO2 emissions will be reinjected in the field. The reason why not everything is reinjected is after the information we have, that CO2 can be captured by the gas before the LNG plant. But in order for the LNG facility to be able to produce at all, you have to use a lot of energy to cool down the gas. Actually, the debate on Snow White can be illustrated by dividing it into two: First, a solid refrigerator is built to cool down the gas so that it becomes liquid, and then we build a gas power plant to provide electricity for the refrigerator. The Bondevik II Government shall construct a gas power plant that emits nearly 900000 tonnes of CO2. The Government will do that because electrification of the plant will be expensive and will be based on coal power, which is today marginal production in our electricity market. From this gas power plant, there is CO2 in the flue gas, and these are the CO2 emissions you do not currently have technology to capture. However, Statoil will prepare for retrofitting if and when technologically possible. There is a growing need for energy in the United States and Europe, and therefore most of the LNG products have already been sold. The alternative for these countries is according to what the department today informs, coal power, which is known to contaminate significantly more than LNG. All countries report an increase in their energy consumption in the years ahead. Letters from the Ministry state that the increase will primarily be coal or other fossil-based fuels. In this context, Norwegian gas will be the best option. The Snow White plant is an industrial venture. The project is the largest ever for Finnmark's part. At the same time, waste materials, such as cooling water and hot water, will be major contributors to increased value creation if provided for. Hammerfest municipality and Statoil have been given a report describing a possible farming concept. This concept can bring about significant jobs and revenues in addition to the Snow White plant. In the view of the Workers' Party, facilitating the use of the cooling water means that funding is needed to bring the water to the mainland, and here we believe that the builder should participate. It surprises me that the government parties do not have the will to give priority to the opportunity that lies here, both in terms of employment and in terms of the environment. With a gross sales income of NOK 200 billion, this should be possible in the view of the Workers' Party. Today's Business has written that the facility is a new grant shutdown for our northernmost part of the country. This is completely wrong, and something we want to take complete distance from. The plant will bring tax revenues of NOK 76 billion to the top of the employment effect and the ring-fences that the plant will bring with it. The installation shall not have environmentally harmful emissions at sea, and the installation shall be a closed seabed concrete system over which fishermen can jettison. A security and surveillance system will be developed that could be used by our neighbours in the east, which may not be as concerned with the environment and security as we are. The current Prime Minister, Kjell Magne Bondevik, said in Stortinget on 9 March 2000: ‘We have no assurance today that a strong increase in emissions in Norway will reduce emissions in other countries. The professional bodies to which the opposition refers have not given such bombastic opinions on this subject which are sometimes perceived». State Council Steensnæs writes to the Committee in a letter: ‘Norway currently has a power balance deficit of around 6-7 TWh this year at normal temperatures and rainfall. After many years of low expansion, security of supply has been significantly weakened in dry years. Nor are there any prospects for particularly increased domestic production capacity or significant new import capacity in the coming years. At the same time, it appears that consumption growth will continue.» Furthermore, he writes: ‘In the years to come, marginal production in the North European power market will primarily be coal-fired power plants.’ I assume that the Prime Minister trusts his government and that he views the Ministry of Oil and Energy as a serious department. In this case, this means that the power balance deficit must be offset by coal power, as Steensnæs writes. The working party has previously pointed out that we can build gas power plants to reduce climate-damaging emissions from coal power. Of course, we are pleased that the Bondevik government has now seen the seriousness of the climate challenges. Now we are waiting for them to become so environmentally aware that they also see that it will actually be beneficial for the environment to use Norway's resources instead of washing up with foreign coal power. Then I'll bring up proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e319	Rolf Terje Klungland has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e324	It is with little wonder that I record how the representative Klungland almost swung from this pulpit with criticism of the Government and the Council of State. He thinks we are unclear and not to trust in this question. And he does well know that one third of his own fraction in the committee goes against the whole Snow White expansion. In fact, I think that's quite eloquent. Can North Norway and the oil nation rely on the Labour Party in the oil policy ahead, or is this what we see now, an expression that the Workers' Party is drifting towards something we do not fully see the result of yet, and perhaps also an expression of the great frustration that is in this party at the moment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e331	It is clear that one should hear many strange arguments, and this was to my surprise a rather strange one. Now there's a difference between having a part of the fraction that disagrees with a decision that's taken and actually having a government council that disagrees with its own proposition that's presented. I really hope that Mr Halleraker's representative is aware of that. Then he asks if the Workers' Party is drifting. We are still changing the policy to the reality that exists. But I believe that the Right actually agrees with the Workers' Party in relation to what is now being presented, and in fact agrees with the Workers' Party in relation to the fact that we are going to have an impact assessment in the future. So here really the representative Halleraker shows that maybe he's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who doesn't agree with the setting that we have here. What is important to me, however, is that as it seems to me, the Right and Christian People's Party is not willing to be involved in taking responsibility for the community for which it now seems that there may be a majority in this Chamber. So they don't want to let the cooling water be used for farms, but rather let the cooling water go into the sea. I think that's far more eye-catching than that we actually in a big party have some disagreement about different political issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e342	I have listened with interest to the comments made by the representative of Klungland, and in particular I noticed that he said very little about what, at least for the Workers' Party, is a problem, namely CO2 emissions. The attention to this is much greater in the setting. There is the Workers' Party on a note where, among other things, read: ‘This majority points out that a significant part of the emission reduction must be carried out through national measures adapted to the Kyoto Agreement.’;» Furthermore, the Workers' Party participates in II of the proposal for a decision in the vote, where one asks the Government to impose on Statoil and other rightholders, inter alia. testing of CO2 abatement technologies and a pilot plant for this purpose. Will the representative of Klungland explain what the Workers' Party believes that a ‘essential part of the emission reduction’ is to be taken nationally and quantify how much one can take from any allowance purchase or nationally? This will be crucial if we are to have any industry in Norway at all. And further, what is the real purpose of launching a pilot plant with so-called CO2 cleaning technology, all the time such a technology does not exist and, according to the Gas Technology Committee, will not be available for almost ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e353	Let me start with the last one, why it's even useful to work in relation to getting CO2-free gas power plants, when they don't exist. I think we should be happy that there are at all those who want to drive to reduce CO2 emissions in Norway – at least there is no help from the Progress Party, which says that CO2 emissions are not a problem at all. As far as our quota system is concerned, we will come back to that when dealing with climate change notification. But it is actually the case that the Progress Party took part in a majority comment in the budget position where it said that a Norwegian quota system would not lead to industry moving out of the country to more polluting places. And of course, we're going to base that on the system that we're going to go in for when that time comes. It's not that we can count on the rest of the world to take care of the commitments in relation to the Kyoto agreement, and we're not going to do anything ourselves. We have to take our commitments, and of course it has to be done within the framework of which we can still have a good society in Norway, with jobs and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e362	In the Friday edition of the Dagbladet, Frederic Hauge characterised the Snow White comrades – or the nine climate policy midwives in the Energy and Environment Committee if you like – as ‘climate bandits’. I'm afraid this is just a little pretense of what's going to happen if the majority continues with this kind of raw drive. The fact that the Workers' Party is engaged in any project involving the construction of gas power plants is nothing new in itself. What's interesting is that the Labour Party in this case is in partnership with two of the parties that the same party chased out of government offices almost two years ago. In this way, the Workers' Party has every reason to shine wide today. As a direct consequence of what happened here in the hall at the time, I signed out of the Labour Party, after 15 years of membership. And unless otherwise, this case has strengthened my perception that I did the only thing right. And it also seems at the moment that my predictions that a piggy climate policy in the long run is not exactly a select magnet, seem to turn on – perhaps even a little above what I had expected. The only working party, or rather the majority in the Labour Party, should have, is that they are at least consistent. However, in the vote we will also see that the Workers' Party is not united in this case either. One of the workers' party representatives in the Energy and Environment Committee has signalled that she will vote against the project, which is, of course, very commendable. But there is reason to ask the majority fraction in the Workers' Party about when you intend to start listening to the young women's people in the party. Or is the strategy that they come to their senses when they grow up once? For my own part, I would rather say as the hero of a well-known literary work: Follow me!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e373	The President will express some doubts as to whether the expression 'pigs' is a parliamentary expression, but will allow the doubt to benefit the pig. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e378	I look forward to the day when the Socialist Left Party will realise that a power balance deficit in Norway of 7 TWh and coal power imports are more environmentally damaging to the climate than if we had actually produced that power from Norwegian gas, which would have reduced climate emissions much more. I see SV in this case, as in several other cases, as a party that is engaged in symbol politics and does not manage to deal with the real reality and the opportunities that are in order to develop a good society. I think we should be happy that SV's policy does not get a majority. Then the oil billions, if we had pumped them up at all, would at least quickly have disappeared out of our wealth. It is important to have a balance between what goes on in value creation, what goes on in welfare, and what goes on in the environment. Then the representative Malvik claimed that the Workers' Party had driven the Christian People's Party out of the government offices. Of course, we'll distance ourselves from that. It was a completely voluntary arrangement that Bondevik chose to leave, because he wouldn't build it a majority here in the hall would do. So there's a rhetoric that should be used against the sitting prime minister and possibly the state council here in the hall. That the representative has signed out of the Workers' Party, I am sorry. But we in the Labour Party have a programme on which we have gone to elections and on which we have received votes. It says that we want to use gas, and the argument is that we cannot be involved in SV's coal power policy in relation to the climate challenges, which are global and which are not national.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e393	As the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, this matter has been carefully and thoroughly dealt with in the Committee. It is important to remind the assembly that it is almost 20 years since the Snow White field was found, and that someone then complains that the Stortinget is moving too fast is strange – to put it mildly. When the Storting will adopt the Snow White Development this evening, Norway will take two very important steps in the future as an oil and gas nation. One will be the start of petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. The second will be the start of Norway as the manufacturer and exporter of LNG. The establishment of LNG production based on the Snow White gas brings Norway into new and important markets that cannot be reached by Norwegian pipeline gas. Norwegian expertise in LNG production is an important step in the further development of our petroleum industry. Snow White thus gives Norwegian petroleum activity a new and important bone to stand on, which is very important, and helps to improve our competitive position. With Snow White, the starting point for petroleum activity in the Barents Sea, which is an area that has been spent close to DKK 1⁄2 billion, is to be carefully investigated in terms of environmental impact. Given the fact that there has been exploration activity in the Barents Sea for many decades, and that 15 to 20 billion have been spent on exploration activity, I am amazed when the Government Parties and the Workers' Party will not open the Barents Sea to further petroleum activities until a further impact assessment has been carried out on the whole of the Barents Sea area. Why have not the same batches been involved in and asked for impact assessment in the past? It must have been fairly obvious, even for these batches, that when you look and if you find something, you want to start with production. So you don't drive and just look for fun, if someone thinks so. In 1997, the authorities invited the Barents Round, where industry was particularly encouraged by favourable concession conditions to resume and strengthen exploration activities in the area. Asking for more investigation now is just declarating for petroleum activity in the north. The truth is that the investigation that the government parties and the Workers' Party are now asking for has nothing to do with environmental issues, but is intended to mitigate critical voices from environmental protection organisations and murmurings from environmental fanatics within their own batches. It's sad that negative forces are capable of winning with their vision, which is at the expense of national value creation. Snow White Development is a national project in the light of the Progress Party. Unfortunately, not all parties have such a vision. Head of the Committee Brother Yngve Rahm from the Christian People's Party writes in a chronicle in Dagbladet on February 14th this year: ‘In a part of the country struggling with deportation and pessimism, snow-white development gives hope of progress.’ When the Prime Minister used exactly the same words at the annual meeting in Eastfold Christian People's Party last Saturday, it tells me most about the Christian People's Party's view of Snow White and the Finnmarks. The Finnmarkings are not pessimists. Snow White Development is not district policy. And the Snow White expansion is progress. Of course, Snow White will be positive for Hammerfest in the form of an increase in population and economic growth and new, valuable jobs. The use of waste heat, as proposed by us and the Workers' Party, and for which it is hopefully a majority, offers great opportunities in the farming industry. However, it is equally important that development gives growth and impetus to many environments in the north and the country. Norwegian pedestal has so far been attractive also for foreign companies. The recent signals give the impression of some form of political uncertainty around the Norwegian base. Long-term protection of large areas will also greatly reduce the competitiveness of Norwegian soil. Uncertainty and long-term stoppage will lead to the loss of extensive long-term skills, as many professionals and professional communities may disappear into other activities. An environment that is important for the activity in the north is Harstad, which has been designated for the most part as an administrative centre for the oil and gas activities outside North Norway, and where an oil environment of a high professional level is established and envisaged to be extended. Strengthening and further developing the professional environment is very important, and therefore conditions need to be created so that Norwegian pedestals, including in the northern regions, are attractive. Snow white will mark the opening of a new petroleum province on a Norwegian base. The logistics and infrastructure set up here will create and provide opportunities for new commercial deployment of the resources in the area and thus provide significant tasks both for development and for operation. Some professional demonstrators, such as Nature and Youth, Bellona and some large-scale representatives, will oppose the development because operations and any emissions will affect the fishing industry. I read that the last shot on the stem in terms of protests is «Biscopians against gas». I have also heard a rumor this morning that there has been a new protest group called the Forced Dance against Gas. As I said, it's just a rumor, and it might be clarified during the debate if there's anything in it. To those who protest, it is simply to say that the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture does not oppose the development of the Snow White field nor does it oppose petroleum activities in the northern regions. Norway should aim to enable the oil and gas industry and the fishing industry to live side by side. Both industries are important industries for the country and the region. In the case of Snow White, there is a gas project in a closed system where large resources have just been put in to ensure against emissions with negative impacts on fisheries. In relation to the activities of the northern regions, Snow White is very important. The expansion creates, among other things: a basis for future cooperation with North-West Russia, which is very interesting. The very high environmental standard set for the expansion provides a basis for the corresponding high standard in the context of Russian petroleum activities. The development of Snow White ensures inter alia: proper and improved preparedness for emissions, which is important in relation to future Russian oil transport through the Barents Sea. Of course, snow-white development is of great importance to Norway and can pave the way for increased activity in the northern regions, if the other parties have political courage and will to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e434	Let me first confirm to the representative Korsberg that SV is still against Snow White – together with environmental movement and now some bishops. That means that the resistance to Snow White is increasing, and I want to confirm that here. SV has always been very clear in environmental policy, because we want the voters to have something clear to stick to. That's why we also have a clear sense in the election campaign that we are going against Snow White – across the whole country, also in Finnmark. Statoil said just over a year ago that they wouldn't build Snow White. It wasn't profitable, it wasn't money in the project, it was part of the argument. Then there was an election campaign in Finnmark, which meant that some representatives felt the need to secure their mandate by promising changes in the tax agenda. And my question is just about whether this tax haven is distorting competition. As Korsberg knows, this is for evaluation in ESA, and what I'm asking is: if ESA says that they accept this regime, will this lead to the Progress Party wanting to introduce such regimes on other gas power plants? And if ESA says no, or says that this is a distortion of competition, will the Progress Party accept a judgment from ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e445	Let me first let me comment a little bit on those who are opposed to the Snow White expansion. When the committee was traveling up there, we met some of the people who were in charge of the development, and I registered that at least there was a taxi driver who was in charge of the development. I think that taxi drivers have more contact with the Norwegian population than the bishops have – at least there are more taxi drivers than bishops. So we feel like we're in line with the Norwegian people, if not the bishops, in this case. It really doesn't bother me much. When it comes to tax matters, it's important to remember that when you changed the tax rules, you went from paying $50 billion in taxes to paying $75 billion, so it's clear that the increase in tax revenue when we changed the rules. It should be a pleasure, because in their proposals for state budgets, SV will continue to spend more money – and so we have to make sure that there are some people who create these values that SV really want to use. In the case of ESA, we're going to have to wait for the answer and look at it when it comes. What's important to us, at least, is to facilitate business and industry so that we get an increased activity. I think that's the most important thing for us in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e456	Both in the setting and now in the post by the representative of Øyvind Korsberg, it is stressed that there is absolutely no need for further consistency in the Barents Sea. It's on page 3 of the configuration. Then there's an additional information from the Progress Party, i.e. the following: ‘These members will also show that the weather conditions in the northern regions are no more difficult than in other sea areas along our coast.’ Maybe darkness time isn't a problem, it's possible it's compensated at north light, but in any case, it might be good to figure out if there's no complication in this northern area. It's on page 4: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that climate policy, for which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a precursor, is highly debated and based on an incomplete scientific basis.’ So the conclusion is that you don't have to worry about it. Is it to understand, then, that it is uninteresting what research and impact analysis can tell? From Finnmark people, it is referred to both the environmental aspect and the need for industrial development. For my own part, I have experienced the people and the commitment to Finnmark and North Norway as active. They want something about the part of the country, so the characteristics to which the representative referred, which should be said by us, must be completely misunderstood by him. The question is: is the environmental aspect of the Barents Sea completely uninteresting in the Progress Party? And further: does the Progress Party see the difference in driving search drilling to see if there is gas and oil, and to make the consequences of the environmental aspect consistent? And finally, isn't the Progress Party responsible for managing the marine and fishing resources just in North Norway and in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e477	Let me start by talking about the weather, you often do that. As for the weather situation along the coast of North Norway and in the Barents Sea, I have some experience in that area, since I come from that part of the country. But I will leave my experience, I will just show you what was informed during the hearing when we dealt with this matter. Both the head of the district committee and the manager of the National Association of Fisheries said that the weather conditions in the north are no worse than in the rest of the country. It is a myth that has arisen, and a myth that the Christian People's Party is now sharing. Weather conditions in the north are no worse than in other parts of the country. Actually, we have dark season, but part of the year it's also very bright. Now it doesn't weigh up, but the weather is not a problem in the northern regions. And, as I said, we were informed in the hearings. As far as climate policy is concerned, we have a different view than the Christian People's Party and so far most people in this Chamber. When you have different researchers, you also get different results. And it is a fact that there are many scientists who question the gloomy predictions of the United Nations Climate Panel regarding climate. There are many others who have completely different theories about what affects our climate, and there are scientists who the Intergovernmental Panel is not listening to at all. Just take it with solar activity and that bit there, it's almost not mentioned in the Intergovernmental Panel's theories on what affects our climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e486	The representative of Korsberg said in his post that he was happy that we could finally get started with the Snow White project. No one has ever doubted what the Progress Party has thought about this. He concluded that one organisation after another was happy about it, and he mentioned among other things. that the fishing industry had no objection to it. In addition, we now heard in the last article that it was underlined that this with climatic conditions is also a myth. In fact, you have darkness time, but it seemed like you could operate most in sunlight in the summer, and that might be the case. I want to quote a little bit from the Fisherman, which is a leaf especially for fishermen, and in the leadership position there yesterday, it says the following: ‘However, unlike oil and gas, fish are a renewable resource. The damage from an oil extraction in the Barents Sea can last for generations after us.» And then it says that the North Sea experience is not good, and that they are very concerned about the Barents Sea. Now Korsberg places the emphasis on that he is sailing from that part of the country, and I have to ask if he does not also share any of these concerns that are clearly expressed in the manager of the fisherman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e498	It was said in the post that we had more sunlight in the summer. I can say that, it's not always that we have so much sunlight in the summer. What was confirmed in the consultations we had with the fisheries organisations, and what we were told in Hammerfest, was that the development of the Snow White field and petroleum activity in the north was no problem. That's kind of what we have to deal with. We record that where oil and gas extraction is involved, both in the North Sea and in other parts of the country, the industry is side by side. So I don't see that there can be any big problem. Here's what we're talking about, both of them, and not either -- or. It is quite right, as the representative, Mr Enger, said, that we in the Progress Party were not in doubt about the development of Snow White. But I'm recording that the doubt in the Center Party is a lot bigger. It is not that many days since the centre party in Troms had an annual meeting on this matter, and they were reasonably clear, with the head of the county rapporteur, that it was to be expanded here. You might wonder why not the Center Party listens to its own people at the grassroots, but just make decisions here in the hall about as if there are no other parts of the country than around this particular building. So I have to say, it surprises me a little bit to get such a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e510	I think the last replicator has a good point when it comes to knowing about things going on outside the house. There is also SV very busy, not least when you look at the many activities involved in this project. I then took up the suggestions from SV and the Center Party. I would first like to congratulate the 60th anniversary, i.e. the Steensnæs Council, on the day, and say that I thought he was doing well – to be so old! But then the congratulations also stop there. There would have been more information about SV, the environmental movement and a good part of the country's bishops and the future grandsons of the state council. be able to congratulate the day on an environmental perspective. So we can't do that today. We have a government council from the Christian People's Party that put in government on 9 March 2000, when Bondevik I said: We're going off because of highly impurifying gas power plants – we don't want to be on the environmental scandal and build this. Rakrygja stood Bondevik and Sponheim there. Today, then, Steensnæs bulldozers are for the very construction of the same highly impurising gas power plants – in two years he has turned his back on the reality picture. Such things – that the parties are turning as fundamentally as the Christian People's Party and the Left have done in this matter – must be problematic if one is busy developing democracy, occupied by people having confidence in the political system. So today, the Christian People's Party is opening up to activity in the Barents Sea, to the expansion of Snow White, a first round on which Onarheim is involved. Whenever you want to continue, Onarheim pointed out in his post, which is certainly right's wish in government – but the Sem statement is ready for this, that's what I've read. So, as I said, one today says yes to the one that was strongly opposed and actually went off from position less than two years ago. There is some hope in this matter. One is the Christian People's Party mint that is signed today, and that SV will also support subsidiaryly if our proposal to send the case back does not get multiples. It's about having to work with a plan for CO2 reducing technologies. Something interesting is happening here. There's just a new word coming up. Before, everything was about – even if a read the Sem declaration – CO2-free technology. The Sem declaration is full of a commitment to CO2 free technology. But that circumference is now roughly gone, we don't hear it anymore. Now we're talking about carbon-reducing technologies. There might be several reasons why a person does that. A reason I can interpret a little positive, because if you're going to build a CO2-free gas power plant on Snow White, you need a reservoir, and it doesn't have one for a gas plant, so either pump CO2 into Goliath or start with new oil fields, so you can use this gas for something. In this way, it may be positive that a shift of rhetoric. Another tragic reason is that the main strategy of the Government in relation to the Gas Technology Selection is wrong. The gas technology selection says: No, it takes three or four periods — or government periods, which it will now mean — before one receives CO2-free technology. So the sem-regier must sit for three periods before the CO2 request is met. Then I understand that one adds up to another rhetoric. But the intention is therefore positive in relation to the proposal to develop CO2-reducing technology, and SV is therefore in favour of the little hope. The Swedish Energy and Environment Committee has pressed for an ordinary examination of this matter. We tried to bring the committee in at a different pace, but here it was certainly a pace of some other than those sitting here, of some other than the government, of Statoil. Statoil said: If we are to build Snow White, this matter must be dealt with on 28 February, because then the contract problem goes out in relation to the United States and Spain. If we don't have it done, there won't be any Snow White. So it's Statoil that has run the whole process of Snow White here in this room, that Statoil, a year ago, was opposed to building out. The oil companies – I've talked to a lot of companies about themselves – take a wave now. They think this is good. Now we've finally got a hole in the bush. Now the Barents Sea is clear, and we are at the start of new projects and new oil activities. That's what's one of the main elements of SV's critique, that one lies flat for oil companies that want to enter the Barents Sea. Then an environment fails and it doesn't have the first point. There is also some reason why SV would like to return the message and post a postponing. SV is positive to much of what is stated in the Sem statement. We are very positive about an offensive climate policy. We would like to cooperate on offensive climate policy. But then we have to ask ourselves: is it so to understand that if you're going to have an offensive climate policy, you start by increasing CO2 emissions by 860,000 tonnes? Is that what is called offensive climate policy? That's the exact opposite! It makes it a lot harder to do. And the cost of this has to be on others. SV is also in favour of an offensive marine environment policy and an independent impact assessment of petroleum industry in the Barents Sea. That's great! But why don't you do that first? Why does one start at the wrong end and open up activity before one has an impact? And why don't they advise a sheep from the SFT to do this properly? This is what makes confidence in the content of the Sem declaration cracks. Many positive elements become difficult to follow up when speaking against each other in the message. SV Question: Should we think about future first, or should we think about oil and gas business first? Our answer is to think about greenhouse gas reductions, so you don't start building out Snow White. One does the opposite. If you want to secure the marine environment and fishing resources in the Barents Sea, you don't build up and start petroleum activity. If you want to follow a precautionary principle, as stated in the Sem statement, you don't start doing it by doing the opposite of what a precautionary principle says. So the order is wrong in your policy. The SV and the environment have not given up blowing Snow White. We still have some possibilities left. One possibility is that Bondevik himself has opened up through a letter of reply to Kristin Halvorsen, by treating the gas power plant separately. If you want to give SFT back the shot they had before being politically castrated here in Stortinget, you have that possibility, and SV is ready to support such a multiple. Furthermore, it is clear that if a person is serious about much of the positive about environmental policy, then a search must be made for cooperation with a party other than what one does today. And I am delighted to see Minister of Justice Dørum from what the so-called environmental party Left will come and bring protesters away for a good environmental cause! Finally, SV made a very good choice in Hammerfest. We got 16 pst. by the votes there. No one should think that there are no people who think first and foremost of the environment in other parts of the country and in other places than just this room. In fact, there are many voters in Hammerfest who have also proved that SV stands for the right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e538	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President would point out that he does not object to the transmission of birthday congratulations from the pulpit of the Stortinge, but would assume that it should be confined to doing so on his own behalf and not on behalf of bishops, grandchildren and other categories. They themselves should be allowed to take their stand on whether they wish to congratulate. Since the representative of Langeland is relatively young, the President will also allow himself to point out that with today’s average life expectancy in Norway, there is nothing to talk about. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e548	SV places great emphasis on the negative environmental aspects of the Snow White Development, of which greenhouse gas emissions are one of the main elements of their counter-representation. Now, however, it is not that Norway lives in its own atmosphere, or that we live in our own small greenhouse. The climate problem is global, and it may be a bit navigable to see isolated on its own emissions as a result of the opening of the Barents Sea gas extraction through the Snow White Project. For is it not that the climate challenge is global, and that by providing gas, which is the purest form of fossil energy, we are replacing highly polluting coal or oil, which are far more threatening to the climate in other countries, in this case the United States and Spain? Is it not the case that the Snow White project thus appears to be an environmentally friendly project in a global context – which, after all, is the most relevant reference framework for discussing the climate challenges? Finally, I would like to say that it is a cross-section of mind that SV, which is opposed to the Snow White Development, signals that the party will substantially support the proposal to oblige the builder not only to facilitate, but also to participate in financing to realize the cooling water transfer lines to the industrial area in Kvalöya. Is this not going to say no to a project, but thanks for the money this project generates? Doesn't SV get a bit of a bad taste in the mouth of this? Or is it such that they hope that they approx. 50 million. This would result in additional costs for the builder, would the economy weaken in such a way that the project as such would not be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e559	I thank the President for the necessary corrections for my contribution. To Siri Meling's representative, I would like to say that once we have lost Snow White Saka, we would like to see Hammerfest municipality and the people there get the most out of this case, because of course there are also stresses in this. With the local economy set up by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is clear that they themselves do not have that ability to make such large investments. I have a little bad to understand why the government itself will not be able to impose on a rich, state-owned company certain obligations on the local population, in which there is actually some environmental policy. I don't understand why the Cooperation Management couldn't be involved. SV is able to participate in this subsidiary, so why is the co-operation government not involved in such an environmental project that makes something out of the worst? That CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions are global, it is clear that I am not trying to deny them at all. On the contrary, SV has been a driver for a global agreement, and Børge Brende from the Right has also contributed to it being put in place. But then one has to ask yourself, how does one solve this issue of emissions? Does it solve the problem by increasing or reducing the emission? The solution to the cooperative is to increase emissions. One does not solve climate problems that way. One solves them by reducing the emission. Then a choice must be made of the environmental options that already exist and that we can also develop in Norway in many areas, alternative renewable energy instead of fossil energy. So simple options must be made, but it's clearly not easy for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e568	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e571	Today, the size shall determine the development and operation of the Snow White field off the coast of Finnmark. It is a matter that has been going on for many years. It is difficult, and it confronts us with major challenges, especially in relation to the environmental aspect of the project. Snow White Development is a gas project. No oil shall be extracted from the field, nor will any further petroleum activity in the Barents Sea be opened by the Government until an annual impact assessment for oil and gas production in this area has been carried out. In the context that the Government will present its own marine environmental message, it underlines the recognition that all our northern marine areas are very vulnerable. It requires that we proceed cautiously in order not to risk damaging important fishing resources and undermining other absolutely necessary environmental considerations. It is therefore important that the Snow White project be able to ensure this in its design and operation, while at the same time being at the highest possible environmental standard, even in relation to what is happening on the Russian side. Snow-white development involves closed systems at sea that will become irradiable. There should therefore be no danger of discharge into water or conflict with important fishing interests. Based on the concept available, there is reason to believe that the project can be defended in such a context. Norway has strong commitments in relation to the Kyoto agreement on greenhouse gas emission reduction. It is important that snow White is also considered in relation to this. The Committee is aware that the emissions of CO2 from the Melkoya energy plant are significant. The majority therefore expresses the need for builders to seek out effective instruments and technological solutions that can help reduce emissions from their plants. The same majority point out that the same applies to the power plant on Melkøya. The possibility of electrification of the plant has been assessed by both the builder and the department. The conclusion is that this appears to be very difficult, as the lack of transfer capacity in Finnmark will result in significant additional investments in the form of, inter alia, Finnmark. new cable pulls. The large quantities of power required by the LNG facility also indicate that the power taken from a gas power plant in Melkoya appears to be the only realistic option. The challenge will therefore be to find solutions that can reduce CO2 emissions, usually in the form of a pilot project for so-called CO2-free gas power plants. The Committee majority, including the Christian People's Party, emphasises for this reason that Statoil must seek to contribute to this and also strengthen the efforts for CO2 abatement technologies such as: may also have a greater dimension in relation to the return cable planned for the Melkøya plant. Furthermore, the same majority would like to see a timely plan for such work drawn up and the Government, in the context of the submission of the gas communication, informed of the progress of this process. There is no reason to hide that for the Christian People's Party, the snow-white development has not been unproblematic, primarily due to the emissions of the planned gas power plant that the project involves. It has therefore been important for us, together with the Right and the Left, to make some important premises and leads for the design of the project that can contribute to raising environmental concerns as high as possible. I believe that we have succeeded and, of course, are pleased with the majority's agreement on this point. It has been and will continue to be a major debate on Snow White. There is considerable commitment, not least from the environmental movement, and that is good. Criticism has been raised both in terms of the treatment procedure and progress, including in relation to the Committee's proceedings. In this context, however, the environmental authorities have confirmed that the obligation to investigate has been substantially fulfilled and that what may be the remaining needs of investigation could be taken into account in the examination of the impact assessment and the request for emissions of the energy plant. On that basis, I believe that the Storting today has an adequate basis for the decisions to be taken. No matter what one might think about the development itself, I believe there is little disagreement that the project can have significant positive effects on both existing and future businesses. It can help to create new optimism in a region and part of the country that is struggling, not least in terms of securing housing and employment and creating new and important competences. This is also underlined in the setting, where builders are asked to contribute to the organisation of positive synergies of the project. However, the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Right believe that the Storting cannot oblige Statoil to contribute on the financing side in such a context. It represents a practice that can create unfortunate consequences in relation to other future projects both on the base and for land-based activities. It is often claimed that the Snow White Extension represents the opening of the Barents Sea for extensive petroleum activities. I would therefore like to stress that the Government regards this as a project isolated, and that it is not envisaged to allow full activity for oil and gas activities in these areas until a comprehensive impact assessment has been carried out for this area and other areas in the northern part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e599	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e602	There has been a lot of strange rhetoric and a lot of Jewish politics from the Christian People's Party in this matter. In this context, I will refer to a chronicle that the head of the Energy and Environment Committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, had on Thursday, February 14th, in Dagbladet. There he writes, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘The Government of Stoltenberg provided for the irresponsible urgent treatment of this project.’ And then he goes on to write: ‘The additional time spent by the Cooperative Government in bringing the case before the Storting is now better equipped to make the right decision.’ Even further out in the chronicle, he writes: ‘The treatment in Stortinget was suspended from December 2001 to 1 March 2002, i.e. approx. 2 1⁄2 md. The time has been used to review the consultation opinions and clarify the obligation to investigate with environmental protection authorities.» On 29 November, the Ministry of the Environment wrote to the Ministry of Oil and Energy that the Ministry of the Environment considers the obligation to investigate Snow White LNG in this round to be fulfilled. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party has used the two months to read hearing statements? I have to ask: what suggests that the Workers' Party should have promoted the matter earlier than what is now done? Does the representative Rahm think that the Workers' Party would not read the hearing opinions before presenting the case to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e622	The President has not been absent in the word ‘jeelpolitik’ before, but assumes that it can be transmitted to the editor of the Norwegian Riksmål dictionary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e625	The current setting, with the agreement of the Workers' Party, suggests that the Workers' Party has also recognised that there has been a need to spend a little extra time going through the investigations and the material available in the case. I think that the extent of the complications that this case really represents, suggests that there has been a need to spend some more time than what you would otherwise have spent. Then the representative of Klungland asks the question whether we have spent time on anything other than reading. In that context, reading is not immaterial. Because that's exactly what we did by going through these procedures again, it was to assess whether there were elements in this that we had to reinforce in relation to environmental efforts. I feel that we have done that, and it also reflects in the setting. So ask Klungland what I think about the Labour Party's tactics about this. I guess Klungland himself must know that. I haven't been to the group meetings or government offices when the Workers' Party was there, so it's probably a question that Klungland can best answer, and not me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e634	In the context of Snow White Development, there have been many recordings and statements, and some of them have contributed to creating myths. In a chronicle in Dagbladet on 14 February this year, Brother Yngve Rahm, head of the Energy and Environment Committee, writes: ‘In a part of the country struggling with deportation and pessimism, snow-white development gives hope of progress.’ So did Prime Minister Bondevik at the Christian People's Party's annual meeting. Then it's natural to ask questions as to whether this is the Christian People's Party's view of Finn Markings and the Snow White Development. The representative Rahm also writes in the chronicle the following: ‘This is one of the most vulnerable sea areas along our coast, both in terms of fishing resources, but also in view of the extreme weather conditions in the area.’ Then I would like to ask the representative Rahm: What professional reason does he have for claiming that the Barents Sea is one of the most vulnerable sea areas along our coast? Why does he claim that there are extreme weather conditions in the area, when both the chairman of the Regional Committee and the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture said the exact opposite in hearings in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e651	I can confirm to the representative Korsberg that the Christian People's Party has a similar view of Finnmarkings that we have on other people living in this country. When Korsberg, on behalf of the Finns, is obviously hurt by the fact that we have tried to describe an actual situation and want to contribute to creating new optimism in this area, it is a little wonder to record that the representative Korsberg has not actually realized that it was a district uprising of quite significant dimensions not long ago. It started in Finnmark, based on the concerns you had in relation to housing, employment and a relatively low nutrient base – I ignore fish. This started with Finnmark, and there was a pessimism for the future. Optimism can help us to reintroduce Finnmark through the Snow White project, and I see that as an important part of this. Then Korsberg is also concerned about the weather, and feels that it is a little unfair that you should have been assigned a little worse weather. But there is no doubt that we are talking about an area that is initially relatively untouched. The Finnmark coast is an area that is weather-hard, and neither can the representative Korsberg denect. It's an area that big parts of the year are darkened, even though it's midnight sun from time to time. But we know, and we also know Korsberg, that there is a great deal of disagreement about this compared to other parts of the country, and there may also be a professional disagreement about the weather situation. That's why it's so important that we get some more information and knowledge about this through impact assessments, which the representative of Korsberg is opposed to doing, and which would clarify some of the questions he is now raising himself on different occasions in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e658	«We are now making a new plan for the coast of Norway and, in cooperation with the Norwegian Fisheries Team, we have achieved a balanced distribution between the sea-going fleet and the coastal fleet. We are betting on the industry I know there is a lot of optimism there” – in Finnmark – “but also a lot of frustration because of the relocation. [[...]] I believe our commitment to the fishing industry and Snow White will help." These are not my words. It was the Prime Minister's words in a headline in Dagbladet yesterday, where he tried to stay away from the announcements he made at the annual meeting of Østfold KrF this weekend that the northerners are pessimists. The proposals that this government has made in the fisheries policy can hardly be effective. The closure of professional bans on coastal fishermen, the deforestation of cod on the right side of their stowage windows, the release of the obligations of the trawlers even more so, and — the latter in line with good proposals — the imposition on the recreational fishermen that there should be a minimum level of fish for the consideration of the resource situation, could hardly be an offensive effort for the Finnland community. It's not Snow White either. And the consequences that any oil extraction on Goliath – and everyone here knows that it is the real plan – will have for fishing, are not suitable for creating future threats and optimism in Finnmark. The consequences of the Petrolium activity for fisheries can be simply fatal. Now we know that alkylphenols affect the estrogen level of the fish. But we know too little, and there should be reason to lead was. There should be reason to make impact assessments before a decision was taken. Finnmark is a rich state. But like a fisherman in Gamvik said to Dagbladet in January, "When the world's largest food barrel, the world's biggest money bucket, is right outside our stooge window, why does Gamvik have to go to social? Rather, the size should have listened to their demands to get the values that are actually created there to create a level playing field to create themselves viable lives. I would like to ask Rahm: Does the Christian People's Party realize that fish and petroleum can live side by side? And is the Christian People's Party willing to pay for the consequences that the petroleum industry can have of applying the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e674	This was a long way to begin a debate on fisheries policy and the size of fish. I have to admit that I don't have much of a prerequisite for discussing the size of fish either in the North Sea or in the Barents Sea, so I leave that to a completely different department and to completely different representatives of my party to discuss. I record that the replicator says that Snow White does not create optimism in Finnmark. And that was a little surprising, because today the gallery has been well visited by people who represent Finnmark, and who express the very opposite, namely that it creates optimism. I've been with the Finnmark media since the committee was visiting up there not so long ago, and I haven't seen it there – at least not to any extent – that people say that Snow White can't contribute to creating optimism in Finnmark. This is a positive side effect of an otherwise debated and difficult project. So the question is whether fish and petroleum activities can live side by side. I don't want to be so categorical in any conclusion that it's the replicator, and say it can't, because I think it's actually possible if it's arranged in a reasonable and correct way. With regard to the installation at sea in the Snow White field, I feel that it has been taken care of. And it is evident from many fishing interests in North Norway that this facility allows fish and petroleum activities to live side by side. The experience we have through 30 years of operations in the North Sea illustrates that this is possible. Everything depends on how we decorate ourselves, and that has been taken into account in the development of the project at Snow White. So I feel like we disagree with those assessments. I believe that the Snow White project takes care of Finnmark's interests in relation to employment, optimism, housing and new industrial structures, while taking good care of fishing activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e683	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e686	Today, two days have passed since the central government, with Prime Minister Bondevik at the head, went off on the gas power case. So for the Center Party, this is going to be a weird thing. And Bondevik said that time, among others.«Constructing the polluting gas power plant in Norway, we will be even more distant from meeting our Kyoto obligations.» And there has been no revolutionary technology that suggests that someone can now build a CO2-free gas power plant. No later than two days ago we could read in the evening post that it will be at least ten years before we have a gas power plant that does not emit CO2. The Government's own gas technology selection has been fixed. I'll come back a little bit later. But for the oil industry, one of the points is that Snow White just allows for an oil adventure in the Barents Sea. And in the Goliath field right by Snow White, a lot of oil is found. If snow-white is extracted, the likelihood is greatly increased that in future oil and gas will be extracted elsewhere in the Barents Sea. This means that the precautionary principle is to be applied. So there are two elements that make it not relevant for the Center Party to support the development of Snow White now. Firstly, it's highly polluting technology, it's causing great CO2 emissions. And secondly, the Barents Sea is one of the world's most valuable and vulnerable sea areas, and it opens up to petroleum activities. We are deeply concerned about the aquaculture and fisheries industries. In order to provide energy for the operation of the Snow White plant on Melkøya, a gaseous pollutant power plant shall be built at the plant. The gas power plant will emit 860000 tonnes of CO2 annually. This corresponds to the emissions from 300000 cars. This is, of course, heavy for the Christian People's Party, and that is why, perhaps, they are trying to avoid using the word "gas power station" in the staging position of this matter. Rather, the word ‘energy’ is chosen. An attempt to create the impression that this plant is different from other gas power plants. And the pill sucks by pushing Statoil to boost the efforts for CO2 reducing technology at its plants. But you can't get away from the fact that the permit includes the construction of a gas power plant with old and polluting technology. There is also reason to recall that the Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Left, in the setting of the long-term programme one year ago said clearly from: ‘These members will not build gas power plants with old and polluting technologies.’ Since then, it's known to have done a lot of reverse operations. Minister for the Environment, Brende, in Morocco just before Christmas, stated that industrialised countries need to take the main emphasis on CO2 emission reductions in order to meet the Kyoto Protocol targets. Where shall the Government reduce emissions when, in addition to Norway’s other environmental obligations, it increases Norway’s total emissions of CO2 gas by 2 pst.? Is it the car traffic to be taken? In other contexts, we have the Minister for the Environment much higher on the road. In this case everything seems to go in the wrong direction for the environment. No strategic impact assessment has been carried out for the whole of the Barents Sea. And according to Norway's leading fisheries research communities, the Marine Research Institute and the Polar Institute, a key knowledge of the long-term effects of opening up oil and gas extraction in northern parts of the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea is still lacking, one of the world's most valuable and vulnerable ecosystems. The knowledge available is only used to assess the environmental risk for each of the development projects without looking at the area as a whole. The centre party believes that an overall assessment of the environmental impact needs to be carried out. Before deciding whether to develop, a security must be provided to ensure that oil and gas activities do not cause permanent damage to ecosystems. The Barents Sea is, as everyone knows, a very important breeding area for many of our fish species. But it is clear that the Snow White project can provide positive ring-effects for North Norway in terms of workplaces. Of course, there is some background for people in Finnmark to see that the project is being implemented. There should be an understanding of, but maritime jobs can become too expensive. Finally, one actually has to ask what it is that suggests that this project should be safer now than two years ago. There has been no revolutionary development, either on the environment or on the technology side. The greatest change in this context must therefore be – as far as I can understand – that the Christian People's Party has changed government partners. It's not that much to be reassured by. No, rather the opposite, sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e725	The centre party has been known to fight for activity and settlement in all parts of the country. And I have often very much agreed with the Center Party when they have pointed out the needs of the districts for more and new business activities. In the Snow White case, the Center Party has a different view, to great amazement and concern for many centre party people in the north. Key key political parties in the north, such as: County rapporteur Ronald Rindestu in Troms, who is also the head of the National Subcommittee, group leader in Finnmark County, Einar Johansen, and the head of the Finnmark Center Party and others. have argued strongly for Snow White Development now and for the positive effects this will have on both Finnmark and the rest of the northern part of the country. Why does the Central Party not take central account of signals from the local plane and those who live where the activity is to take place and feel the need for new activities? Why is there a full gap between the Central Party in the north and the Central Party in such important district development and development of competence in the northern part of the country? Is there no confidence that the local population and the local laws of the party have thought about environmental issues and an assessment of the environment in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e732	The representative from the Workers' Party is entitled to the fact that there is a gap in parts of the Centre's party with regard to this matter. There are more opponents in Finnmark and Troms than elsewhere in the country. But it's interesting that the Senterungdom, for example. Finnmark is against the project. The funniest thing is perhaps that the representative allows himself to point to the big gap that is in the centre party, but then I almost have to point to the gap that is in the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party in Troms, as far as I know, has two representatives, and they represent each of their views on this matter. So it's internal cracks also in other parties. Otherwise I have to say that it's a difficult balance. It is important that we are busy with the districts, and that we are busy with the jobs. But the biggest industry in North Norway is always going to be the fishing industry, and that's actually one of the reasons we're going to go against this expansion. As mentioned earlier, this opens the Barents Sea and it is a very vulnerable area. So the reason why the centre party in this case – a very difficult case – chooses to go against it at the moment is the technology we now have. But we're worried about the workplaces and we have to get to it in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e739	I think it's a shame that we can't get in touch with the Center Party on some of these points. Let me take some of the moments that Inger S. Enger was in. We have to get a proper assessment of the Barents Sea before we open up for oil extraction, it was said. Yes, we have said that, and we mean that. This we are now discussing is a gas project, and I tried neutrally and comprehensively, at the beginning of this debate, to say why this gas project has little impact on fisheries resources, and that there is little likelihood that it will be emissions. The second is that we're going to balance it against other benefits. That's two great advantages. One advantage is that with LNG facilities and new technologies, we have the opportunity to reach new customer groups. It's important. The other important thing is that in the Hammerfest area, as in Finnmark, there is a new development and a development of competence that is very important for this part of the country. The third is that you are now entering the Snow White project and have been given clear leads to working intensively to try to produce a less polluting CO2 power plant. It can give you a pressure in this that I think you're going to appreciate very much. And I think that the majority of this committee has now really come with good leads on how to get a step forward, instead of just saying no and no. Now we have an opportunity to come up with a less polluting technology than the one we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e750	As the representative of Onarheim sailed, he is also concerned about the environment. I'm very happy about that. He mentioned it now, and he also said it in a reply earlier today, that one should not open up oil extraction until one had carried out a proper impact assessment, and that long-term thinking was necessary. Long-term thinking is also the centre party concerned because we believe that when we don't have new and modern and – to say – gas pollution-free technology, we don't take the chance at this. We believe that the Barents Sea is actually opening now. So I think we just have to admit that in many contexts, the Right Party and the Center Party have a parallel view, but in this case we have different views for environmental reasons. We think you should have a proper impact assessment first, and then build afterwards, and you don't do the opposite – you have to do things in the right order. This isn't just about a gas plant, but it's really about opening up the Barents Sea, as I mentioned earlier. Otherwise, we can agree on this with jobs. It is very important for the region. I think the Right was involved in budgeting which was very unfortunate in terms of jobs. I would like to mention the strong cuts in the SND scheme, the liquidation of municipal nutrition funds and the disappearance of the freight balancing subsidy. If we had not done this, we could also ensure the development of nutrition in several areas in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e757	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e760	The cooperation management's arrangement for the Snow White Development is based on the compromise contained in the Sem Declaration. There is no secret that the Left was skeptical about the expansion, and that this was one of the most difficult things that found its solution on the Asm Gestégård. It was decisive for the Left that we in this Government in sum came up with a good environmental policy, which has been expressed in many ways and in many cases. The cooperation management represents a breakthrough for environmental policy, and the composition of the Storting provides opportunities for a whole new give based on a multiple in this room. Put in such a light, and with the fact that there was an established plurality in the Storting for this expansion before the Sem negotiations began, the Left can accept the proposed solution, which is considerably better than I think it would have been with a worker party government. Politics is still the possible art, and this is what is possible in this context. It's better with some steps in the right direction than none. Left will underline these steps in the right direction, which is part of the Sem Declaration and the Government's proposal today: 1st@item: inlistbox New petroleum projects in the Barents Sea will not be opened until the impact assessments of all aspects of such activity in the vulnerable Barents Sea are mapped.2. The snow-white extension shall be a pure gas project and it is not appropriate to grant permission to an extension which also includes oil extraction.3. Snow White shall pay CO2 fee.4. The government is continuing to contribute to the introduction of CO2-free technology by the gas power plant at Snow White. The left will work for the gas power plant to become a pilot project for such technology.5. Normal democratic rules of play should be followed by major investments linked to the gas power plant being subject to the energy law concession and emission permits for, inter alia. CO2 and NOx from the State pollution control authorities are in the lead and common complaints have been followed. We have helped to make Snow White LNG more environmentally friendly. Through a range of conditions and regulations, the developers are required to make the installation the best possible for the environment and ensure that emergency emissions are taken into account. The labor party government added up to a rough drive to deal with the matter before Christmas, and was criticized for it. The co-operation management has taken time for proper management, where one has gone through all the hearing statements and all the environmental objections to see how the care of the environment could be improved. Select the left to enter and activate; don't stand outside and call no. It gives better results, even though it wouldn't always be the way it would be if we had decided on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e790	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e793	I can't help noticing that when we talk about the CO2 emissions from Snow White, the old governmentmates from Bondevik I are heard out as the old prayerhouse manager from the Iron did when he was confronted with Jesus once making water for wine. Then he said, "I know, but I don't like it." That's how the old centermates sound about the big emissions of CO2 from Snow White. I am pleased that May Britt Vihovde now stresses that the Snow White plant will have a CO2 tax. In St. prp. No 35 does not say it explicitly. On the other hand, it says: ‘The Ministry points out that CO2 emissions have to be seen in the context of Norway’s follow-up of international commitments and possible future allowances for CO2.’;» I hope the representative Vihovde can confirm that it is clear that there is a CO2 tax that is applicable to the Snow White plant – not to become a member of any allowances system. So I would also like to ask a question: Do we share the opinion that the Right has expressed here in the Chamber today that LNG from Snow White will help to reduce emissions from polluting coal-fired power stations in Spain and the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e807	I note that there have been several speakers today who have said that the CO2-free gas power plants are very far ahead of time. But this government has taken strong initiatives to get this in place, to want to invest in this technology – for one it has to show the will to bet on this – and to signal to those who are going to build, that if they don't bet on this, they might get huge costs associated with the energy plant they're planning. The Swedish authorities have said from this speech that they see that the government is paying attention to this. Nothing other than the CO2 tax on the plant will be involved. But I can't stand here and give guarantees for where the gas is going yet, and where it is to be sold. It's something Statoil has to evaluate based on corporate economic interests. I want to say that you can't expect to get full penetration for everything you stand for. SV and Left have stood together and fought in a lot of good environmental things. When SV gives such a strong signal that they want to enter into a government cooperation with the Workers' Party, it might be tempting to ask a question back: Did EN really believe that they had been able to get through all of their environmental issues in collaboration with the Workers' Party – when the Government in this case presented an alternative that is actually much more environmentally friendly than what the Workers' Party government provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e816	The left was a razor two years ago. They left Bondevik I because of the case of highly impurityful gas power plants. They thought that the matter was too heavy to be able to sit in government. The left would be an environmental party. They thought it was important to establish it. The left was then the environmental movement and SV's friends. Today, we are at risk of the Left – with its Minister of Justice – taking away environmental demonstrators against a project that involves the construction of highly impurising gas power plants. What is the basis for the Left's making such a big ham change in such a short time? I wonder if it is the 'Wingle-Left' that we have heard about, which once again shows its face. I also wonder if what happened on 9 March 2000 was that SFT was, in a way, instructed or – one might call it – politically castrated. They should no longer do what they normally should do in relation to expansion and concession requests. When it emits in relation to gas power plants, they would only say, yes, only build gas power plants. Does the representative of May Britt advise that the SFT should regain its function as a supervisory body, or should they still be castrated? Finally: Why does the Left do not support a proposal to activate the cooling water? Isn't that an old, good left case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e833	First of all, as the representative of Langeland took up, this by weakening the pollution laws and weakening the SFT as a supervisory authority: this was one of the main reasons why the government went off! We didn't want to be part of that castration -- that's one of the reasons we left. I assume, President, that castration is an approved parliamentary expression. In any case, it is used in another case that is soon to be dealt with. We don't want to weaken the state's pollution control. We don't want to weaken the law. I want to remind the representative of Langeland that it is known that for a long time there has been a plural to build Snow White, to build heavily impurified gas power plants. Then it is important for the Left to be able to enter a process and be involved and influence, to be involved and to give some indication that it is not accepted. We want to make gas power plants more environmentally friendly, and with today's energy price, we believe that that technology will be put into operation, so that it will not be heavily built into impurity gas power plants. New technology will be built, and so will Snow White.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e845	The President has a medical background, so the word castrated is not so inedible to him. Whether it is parliamentaryly correct can certainly be discussed, but the President saw no reason to interrupt the representative in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e848	The representative Vih had talked about what she called highly polluting gas power plants. It makes me ask a question in relation to the government's work on the energy side. The Minister of Oil and Energy has sent a letter to the Committee, indicating that the deficit in the balance of forces is six-seven TWh in a normal year in Norway. At the same time, he shows that the marginal production of power in northern Europe comes from coal. Electrification of Snow White will mean significantly higher CO2 emissions if one goes for coal than if one goes for the gas power plant to be built. Does the representative Vihovde agree that coal power generation is more polluting than the gas power plant on Snow White?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e855	To spring, the Co-operation Administration will present a climate communication. Then I believe the representative of Klungland will see that we want to take some impetus in climate policy, and energy policy and climate policy are very well connected. This government is busy using all available energy sources based on recovery. We've invested heavily in one another. We are investing in upgrading old energy plants. We want to invest in alternative energy – wind turbines – that can produce the power that Norway needs and that we can also export to bring down the number of energy sources that pollute in Europe. We also want to make an offensive effort at the technology that allows us to use our gas as an energy source without impurising the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e862	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e865	The coastal party is initially always in favour of the creation of new jobs in the districts. But in terms of the extraction of non-renewable resources, such as oil and gas, we will be vigilant against the negative effects of such extraction, for the natural environment in general and fisheries in particular. In particular, it will be important to be cautious in vulnerable areas such as the Barents Sea. The Government submits to a rapid procedure and only one impact assessment of the Snow White project has been carried out in isolation. In addition, many specialist bodies point out that there are concerns about the development. The Coastal Party will therefore support the proposal of the SV and the Central Party to return the proposition to the Government for treatment after an overall impact-assessment of annual petroleum activity in the northern seas. We also support the proposal to ensure that issues relating to the marine environment and climate policy are addressed in accordance with the objective of sustainable development and the objective of the precautionary principle. If these proposals fall, the Coastal Party will subsidize proposal No. 1, from the minority, for cooling water. The ecological danger signals are no one today who can cancel. It will then be a gambler with one of the world's richest and most important sea areas, which can cause untold damage in the foreseeable future. It would be a very bad legacy for the Coastal Party to hand over to our descendants. The view of the Coastal Party in this matter should therefore be known.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e878	Today, the size of the population is one of the most important decisions that are or are being taken to ensure the development of business and housing in our northernmost areas. Countless plans have been adopted. Numerous instruments have been used. Finnmark has equally worn out with a sustained net relocation. The main cause of relocation is lack of attractive jobs. Therefore, there is nothing more important to secure housing than concrete projects that create new jobs — new, exciting and interesting jobs, workplaces that provide challenges for young people who want to use their education. Therefore, the development of oil and gas activities in the north has been a dream – a dream of new activity, a dream of new jobs, a dream of workplaces so exciting that the youth will be or move back, a dream of a future without fear of being moved. The adventure of Snow White brings us closer to this dream. Nevertheless, snow White is primarily a new chapter in the development of Norwegian petroleum activities, a new chapter by opening up a new area in the Barents Sea and opening up a new form of production that has never been used before, either in Norway or in the rest of Europe. Snow White is far from the markets. This means that it is not economically possible to transport the gas in pipes to the markets. So it cools down so it can be transported on the keel. It provides an opening for the supply of Norwegian gas to new markets, and it will increase the flexibility of production on Norwegian base. Just because of the additional process of cooling, it is internationally common for LNG to be subject to different framework conditions than for pipeline transport. Here again in Norway, we have decided that there should be separate depreciation rates for large scale LNG facilities. This is not fundamentally different from the fact that we have different depreciation rates on commercial buildings and agricultural buildings. Snow White pays 78 pst. tax on the profit. It's probably much higher than any other LNG facility in the world. There is a re-use of old prejudices about Finnmark when some call the Snow White field subsidised. Snow White means investment of approximately NOK 46 billion and sales revenue of about NOK 200 billion. It has a present value of NOK 11.6 billion and a profitability of 7 pst. actually before tax. For society, addition to new knowledge means new industrial jobs and new export income, a tax income of approximately DKK 76 billion. That is why the development of Snow White is, above all, an opportunity for the Kingdom to secure new funding for our common well-being. Snow White will be the most environmentally friendly LNG facility in the world. The alternative to expansion is not avoiding emissions. The alternative is that there will be more emissions, but in another place on the globe that will then be assigned to supply the same markets. But no one can suggest that the emission of CO2 by itself is a problem. But the argument is probably so much directed at the fact that Snow White can damage the vulnerable Barents Sea. Such claims are attempts to mislead the population. Snow White is a pure gas expansion. No oil shall be produced at all. There is no risk of oil spills. The gas is treated in a closed system. There is no risk of damage to the marine environment from the release of gas, simply because the gas rises rapidly to weather. Although Snow White is a national project, the expectations and expectations are greatest in Finnmark and North Norway. Snow White is the largest industrial project in Finnmark ever, and the largest industrial project in North Norway since the construction of the Jernverket. There are also hopes that the gas can provide further activity by exploiting the gas in industrial processing, by taking a stand for further petroleum activities, but also by exploiting what would otherwise be waste. Finnland probably has the largest unused potential for aquaculture in the country. The government of Stoltenberg followed this up by prioritising Finnmark in the award of new salmon concessions and by designating Finnmark as an area of activity for the development of cod farming. But Finnmark lacks sedan fish. Here, it is possible to take a large step by exploiting the hot cooling water from the LNG facility in order to achieve faster growth on seine fish both for salmon and cod. This is a unique opportunity, which in the proper sense of the word must not be poured into the sea. I am therefore very pleased that the Workers' Party today appears to have a majority in order for the Government of the concession terms to ensure that the operator will facilitate, and participate with funding, so that the cooling water is brought to the relevant industrial area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e907	There is a major issue The Stortinget is dealing with today, not necessarily in an oil policy context, but large in that the Stortinget agrees to open up gas production in the Barents Sea. With that background, I understand very well that you have reason to enjoy yourself very much today in Hammerfest, in Finnmark and in North Norway. As previous speakers have pointed out, it has not been very, very much in the field of industrial policy to celebrate the last few years. We're talking about a state that's had stagnation in the population in the last eleven years, a decline in the population, with the consequence that working age is increasing steadily. The youth who comes from this vulnerable part of the country, who is taking education, has found out more and more that they have no job to return to. It is therefore gratifying also in this case to see that there are 3,000 people here who have expressed their interest in working with, in and around the project. It's from several speakers to figures for what to invest, but the interesting part of these comparisons is that the annual cost of operating the project is half the size of today's municipal budget in Hammerfest. It creates an employment that is unsurpassedly important for the further development of Hammerfest, Finnmark and Nord-Norway. Then there are several people who say that you can't set the environment against jobs. This is done in the context of believing that if we say no to Snow White, the Barents Sea should therefore remain a virgin territory. It's putting your head in the sand, because you know – you should at least know – that it won't be further development. For this reason, Snow White can become an environmental project that can standardise an area that currently has the most well-known oil and gas resources in the world. So this is an important environmental project, where it's important that we have Norwegian hands on the steering wheel in the development of the project. Therefore, it is my advice to those who want – and benefit from – to stop this project, that they use their attention to further develop the project in an environmental direction, which I feel the Committee has succeeded to a very great extent. I think the environmental sector has other arenas on this globe that will be more served by using resources and forces than to torpedoing the Snow White project outside Hammerfest. We know that in the grey zone of North-West Russia there is an emerging optimism. Here we have the strongest growth in the economy – at least percentage – in Europe at present, and it is increasingly linked to the development of the oil and gas fields in the north. By comparison, we know that the Stockman field in the Barents Sea, which is twice the Troll field and five times the Snow White field, is facing development. Therefore, it is important that we can develop Norwegian technology and set a Norwegian environmental standard, which can be involved and develop all activities in this area further. Whatever this will also give of other ring-effects for Norwegian oil industry, Norwegian oil industry and gas industry, for Finnmark and for Northern Norway, we can only imagine. But we know – at least we can't pretend we don't know – that the activity we're facing in a few years on the eastern border in North West Russia will create an activity with effects that should worry us a lot more than the one that's happening in and around the Snow White project. Although we're not talking about pipelines, we know that we're getting a huge increase in ship traffic, and we're getting an increase in the need for monitoring and control, and to set standards in this area that are greater than large. That's why it's naive when someone asks if we're going to let Russia decide the pace, and decide what kind of position to take from the Norwegian side. It's putting your head in the sand to take such a position. But when you have such a point of view, you also have a completely different role to play in this game, which is the role that the spectator wants to take. It does not pass on the environmental issue, it does not pass on the Finnmark coast, and it does not bring on the Norwegian oil and gas industry at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e920	The development of Snow White is the beginning of a new epoch for Norwegian petroleum activities. The Snow White project is the first large scale LNG project in Norway, which will provide Norwegian industry and petroleum activities with both new challenges and, not least, opportunities to acquire competence in this new and interesting area. What is most interesting about this project, however, is that the investment in LNG opens up completely new markets for Norwegian gas, markets that we have not previously had access to. Gas from our base has so far been widely sold to European countries and distributed through pipelines to the continent. The LNG gas, which after cooling is in liquid form, will be distributed by special ships and can therefore, like oil cargoes, in principle be shipped anywhere. Norwegian gas can now be sold and distributed to large parts of the world, and this opens up enormous opportunities for Norway as a gas nation in the future. At the same time, we know that demand for LNG is increasing on the world market, which also makes this project economically robust. Large parts of the gas from the Snow White field are already sold on so-called ‘take or pay’ contracts to the United States, and it is precisely the US market, with its growth potential, that could be an interesting market for Norwegian LNG gas. Gas consumption in the United States is increasing. This has to be covered more than before by imports, and here, of course, LNG is interesting. The Spanish market will also take some of the Snow White gas, as the Spanish electricity company Iberdrola has committed itself to delivery for 20 years, with the possibility of extension. In addition, Gaz de France and TotalFinaElf, who are themselves part of the project, will take out their volumes for their own consumption. In view of this, it appears that the Snow White project is well placed on the gas in a growing market. However, some energy is required to cool this gas to minus 163 degrees to make it liquid. It is therefore planned to build a gas power plant — or an energy plant — in order to obtain power for this process. Of course, this has caused some noise around the project, and as usual, the protest industry has participated with high volume. And as usual, the worse the case they have, the more noise they make. The so-called electrification of the plant has been assessed, and this in practice means that the plant would draw power from land. I am pleased that both the ministry and the committee have abandoned such a solution, and the reason is obvious: it is already due to a lack of power in the domestic market, and this results in imports of both highly polluting coal and nuclear power during periods. Any electrification would, of course, reinforce the need for imports, which is also confirmed by letters from the Council of State to the Committee. The planned gas power plant is therefore clearly the best solution for generating power for the Snow White project. The Council of State's conclusion with regard to the gas power plant, which I agree with completely, is actually a little surprising, as in the gas power cases he generally finds on the most incredible curvatures to stop or postpone these. It is totally incomprehensible for me to see some difference in power to be used in the Snow White project, and power used elsewhere in society. Both parts will lead to increased imports, all the time you do not increase production. And despite cost-requiring additional measures and other expensive airlocks to change consumption, it can be established that demand for power in the Norwegian market is only increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e943	The majority of the Stortinget wants to expand the Snow White field, with LNG facilities and gas power plants that will emit annually close to 900000 tonnes of the greenhouse gas CO2. This decision has been taken just before the Government presents its climate policy and measures to reduce emissions. How the Government intends to combine a massive expansion of gaseous pollutants with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions appears to be a climate policy adventure. Snow White will increase Norwegian CO2 emissions by a total of 2.1 pst. in relation to the 1999 level, and will only represent a larger increase than Norway can permit under the Kyoto Protocol. And the curve for Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions is rising. The big message from the Stoltenberg government says that we can count on an increase of 26 pst. if all three approved gas power stations are built. If we are to meet our commitments in relation to the Kyoto Protocol, Norwegian emissions must be reduced by a total of 13.3 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. And then at the top of this thing, we're going to get the emissions of nearly 0.9 million. tonnes of CO2 from the gas power plant and the LNG installation on Snow White. Something that has not been given particular attention in the climate debate is the impact this could have on the existing industry in Norway, because no matter how a future quota system looks, it is a reality that this dramatic increase in emissions will have to be offset by measures in other areas. In the case of new projects, such as: on Snow White, plans – as the builder says – to make use of future greenhouse gas allowances schemes, it is worth recalling the wording of the Sem Declaration and the wording of the setting that ‘a substantial part’ of the emission reductions should be taken nationally. The word ‘essential’ has synonyms such as significant, vital, decisive, fundamental and decisive. Normal Norwegian language understanding should therefore indicate that this would mean that the Government is planning to take most of the reduction through national measures. Something else would mean that it was not just Kristin Clemet's understanding of language that came into focus, but the entire understanding of the government's language. In that case, it would mean that the word ‘substantial’ would have a significant new meaning. The consequence of the Government’s planned objective will therefore be that existing industry will necessarily have to be under pressure to make the necessary emission reductions. However, in addition, the possibility of making use of allowances through the Kyoto Protocol would be greatly reduced if these gas power stations were to be included in the new allowances system. I am therefore very pleased that the representative from the left was so clear that Snow White will pay the CO2 tax. I hope that the representative of the Government, who is present here today, can confirm this for us. Well, the logic here is easy. The reduction obligation assumed by Norway will apply regardless of which part of the business community is able to buy and sell allowances. The alternative to purchasing free through the use of the mechanisms is to reduce own greenhouse gas emissions. The planned gas power plants will thus eat from other industries' ability to buy allowances, given that the Sem declaration is worth more than the paper it is written on. We expect, of course, that CO2 emissions from the planned gas power plant at Snow White will be treated under the pollution law and that the SFT will be able to make a thorough, professional assessment of the planned greenhouse gas emissions. The Prime Minister has also explained this in the letter he sent to SV last Wednesday. There is also something I hope the Council of State can join. On 23 June 2000, the Ministry of the Environment, where Siri Bjerke was then the Council of State, sent a letter of instruction to the SFT in relation to gas power plants, where SFT was required not to impose emission requirements more stringent than those otherwise common in the EEA area. And on 6 October, the Ministry of the Environment sent a letter to Natural Power AS entitled «Recasting concessions for gas power plants». We are of course aware of the fact that this was in line with the decision on 9 March 2000, but it was equally fully an instruction that placed considerable restrictions on the ability of the professional authorities to carry out an unhindered, professional assessment of what kind of emissions could be permitted. The question I want to ask is this: What confidence in the professional assessments does the government believe this type of instruction creates in relation to environmental authorities? And does the Government intend to show a willingness to act in relation to a more ambitious climate policy than the Stoltenberg government led, and guarantee that this time the SFT will be able to make an unbridled and professionally sound assessment of the emissions of Snow White? SV, as we know, has 23 representatives on the Stortinget, which is enough to form a majority with the government parties for a more offensive climate policy if that is what the Government wants. The government cannot therefore support the lack of support in the Storting in order to ensure the role of SFT as an independent trade directorate. So if the Snow White Adventure is going to have a happy, climate-political end, then it's all alone up to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e969	The government is in favour of the development of Snow White LNG, which means that the fields Snow White, Ashkeladd and Albatross are being developed for the extraction of gas and condensate. The issue has significant dimensions and, of course, has received considerable attention both politically, mediatically and in the social debate more generally because of environmental and climate considerations and the opportunities for industrial development, district development and good resource management resulting from this issue. In short, the key challenge in the Snow White case is to reconcile environmental, economic development and good management of our petroleum resources. It has been demanding, but I believe that we have managed to do this properly. The Committee has done a good and thorough job in this important matter. Of course, I am very pleased with the support given by a solid majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the vote on the Government's proposal for the development of Snow White LNG. I have noted the leadership of the Committee in terms of implementation. I am in favour of these proposals and will follow up this in the best way possible. The Snow White project represents the first expansion in the Barents Sea. The Barents Sea is a vulnerable area. As a result, careful progress has been made in the context of Snow White Development. In the Sem declaration, the cooperation parties provided for a time shift in the treatment of the Snow White project. The Government undertook to review the environmental objections raised by the hearing bodies and to take account of objections raised by the relevant professional authorities. This has been followed up and the professional authorities concerned have confirmed that the necessary decision-making basis is in place. In line with the Sem Declaration, the Cooperative Government will carry out an impact assessment of annual petroleum activity in the northern sea areas of Lofoten and northwards. Until such time as such a plan is in place, no further petroleum activity will be opened up in the Barents Sea. It has been clarified with environmental protection authorities that the Snow White Extension can be managed free of any further investigations for the Barents Sea. The plans for the Snow White project cover only the extraction of gas and condensate deposits, not oil extraction. Oil extraction is therefore not included in the impact studies of the Snow White project available, but will be dealt with in the planned impact assessment to which I referred in respect of annual petroleum activity in the northern seas. Snow-white LNG is important for Norway as a gas exporter. The LNG market is growing rapidly and it is positive that Norwegian companies Statoil and Hydro are gaining experience in LNG production. The LNG plant on Melkøya will also be large in global terms, and the production from Snow White will contribute to increased flexibility in the gas deposition from Norwegian base. It represents one of the largest industrial projects in Norway and the largest industrial project in Finland. The development and operation of the plant will have positive effects on the labour market in large parts of North Norway, not least regionally for the municipalities of West Finland, and in particular for the area around Hammerfest. The industry in West Finland is expected to be able to contribute supplies of goods and services to the project, mainly in connection with the construction of the LNG plant. Implementation of the project will have a positive impact on the population development of Finnmark. In the construction phase, the project will consist mainly of 1,200 annual works on Melkøya. The actual operation of the landing facilities with suppliers and subcontractors will result in up to 500 annual works. Of these, Statoil's operations will provide up to 180 permanent jobs in the Hammerfest area. The development and operation of the Snow White project involves the establishment of a new high-tech competence environment. This provides great opportunities for empowerment in the national community and encourages the establishment of new activities in addition to subcontracting. Experience from other parts of the country shows that the landing of gas results in nodal spraying for other commercial activities. In the proposition, the Government has intervened in order for the builder to contribute to making gas and cooling water available for local use. It would be very beneficial if the snow-white development could provide further positive ring-effects for local nutrient development, while one would benefit from good use of the cooling water. While such projects must, of course, be subject to the necessary commercial assessment, it is appropriate to expect that the builder will contribute to the establishment and organisation of such activities, even if there is no explicit requirement for co-financing. The Snow White LNG energy supply shall be provided through an energy system integrated into the LNG system itself. This energy plant will be treated in line with the practice established for the approved gas power plants, i.e. the construction of the power plant itself on Melkoya cannot be started before energy concession and emission permit are available. In the proposal on Snow White, changes have been notified in the scope of the Petroleum Act. The purpose of this change is to ensure that resource management reasons can be fulfilled throughout the production chain. But this change does not mean that existing laws are set aside. It's a misunderstanding. Any right of appeal in relation to energy concessions and emission permits will, for example: continue to be present, as now. The development takes place using the best available technology. Attention has been paid to the fact that the operation of fields and land installations will not contribute to environmentally harmful emissions at sea. The proposition also assumes that the builder strives to minimise activities that may increase the likelihood of acute emissions. Comprehensive measures are planned to reduce environmentally harmful emissions to air from the project. CO2 resulting from the gas in the well flow will be separated out, transported by pipeline back to the field and reinjected. This reinjection means that the total CO2 emissions of the project are halved. It is important to follow up on measures that could further reduce these emissions. I have noticed the strong recommendation of the majority of the committee to cooperate with Statoil as an operator to implement CO2 mitigation measures. Particular consideration shall be given to whether there is a basis for a pilot plant for cleaning CO2 from the exhaust gas at Snow White. This I will follow up. Space has already been allocated to the LNG facility so that this area may be used for installations that can contribute to the further reduction of greenhouse gases. In line with the Committee's recommendation, I would also like to follow up on Statoil and the rightholders developing a timely plan to test CO2 abatement technologies. In order to achieve good, forward-looking solutions for CO2 free gas power, it is important that different technologies can be tested in an appropriate way. It is research institutions, suppliers and users of the technology that will be the right expert bodies to assess which technologies and solutions it is most appropriate to invest in. Therefore, more installations than Snow White must be included in such an assessment. We have significant technological challenges ahead of us in dealing with CO2 emissions in a long-term, satisfactory way. At the same time, we see that new framework conditions, both through international agreements and national regulations, can create new technological solutions for demanding issues. For my part, I have a certain belief that we should be able to master the challenges we face, given that we have the necessary willingness to solve them and also to put the expected resources at our disposal. Snow-white LNG is well justified both technologically and in relation to important environmental and fisheries considerations. In particular, Snow White LNG is the main industrial project ever in Finland. It can create new optimism and interesting prospects for Finnmark as well as for the whole of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1003	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1006	There is no doubt that we have experienced a great u-turn from the Christian People's Party – in my opinion a very good u-wing. However, the majority of the gas power plants in the year 2000 and on which the then government chose to go are now forgotten. So it is the Bondevik government that proposes that we build gas power plants in Finnmark – gas power plants that will emit a lot of CO2 – and that will be the majority of them. Since the case of Snow White was brought forward, several representatives of the Christian People's Party, including the Council of State, have created uncertainty about their position on a matter that the Council of State has presented. On February 15th, the Council of State, Einar Steensnæs, says: «I am skeptical of Snow White, but in government, and we follow up what is in the Sem Declaration». It may seem as if the Council of State is questioning whether he really is behind the proposal he has made. Prime Minister Bondevik told Dagbladet that ‘polluting gas power plants are fired into the blue’. That's not right either. It is a majority, including the Christian People's Party, who today will decide that we should expand Snow White. I have the impression that the Christian People's Party – because for the party it is an unpleasant matter – is trying to speak with two tongues to try to give the impression of something other than what this matter is really about. I think it is good that the Christian People's Party has turned around, I think it is good that the Council of State is more offensive in this matter than what he has been at for a long time, and I think it is fine if the Christian People's Party stands for what they think in this matter. This is a major industrial district issue. It's a matter that means a lot of jobs, and it allows us to use new technologies with better skills. I think that the Christian People's Party should stand upright behind this and also ring the bell. So just a short question in the end: why won't the government parties help to make sure that we get even more jobs in this good project, by imposing on Statoil that they should also spend money on using the cooling water?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1024	I find that while I have been very concerned by the importance of the Snow White project and the important separation of time this will mean industrial and employment for Finnmark, the main figure of the Workers' Party in such matters continues with a sort of rematch around gas power plants. These questions have repeatedly been raised in Stortinget, and they are not more accurate because if they are repeated. I understand that the Newspaper is an important newspaper for the Workers' Party, although they also keep a certain distance, but it has to be a way. I have repeatedly explained my relationship with Snow White in Stortinget and in other interviews. It is no secret that the Christian People's Party and I ourselves have been skeptical of Snow White. I've never been against it, let me now also clarify it, but I've been skeptical. I have no problem admitting that, so frankly, I think you should be in politics. But I have also never hidden the fact that I fully support the proposition and the work that I have carried out as the responsible specialist council in the field of Snow White, both in terms of the environment and in relation to fisheries. What's the challenge for us is the CO2 emissions. I have to say, I think it's strange that Sylvia Brustad is not more concerned about how we're going to deal with the CO2 problem on Snow White, because that's the biggest challenge. When it comes to the environment and fisheries, I feel completely safe. As far as CO2 is concerned, I see that we have a challenge. I really hope that we can work together with Statoil on a pilot project. I believe that. If it comes to Snow White, it depends a little on the assumptions the operator has made about this. I see that the committee does not oblige me to find a solution to Snow White, but at least an alternative. We are in good constructive dialogue with Statoil on this, and I hope that we will do so. This is important for the climate commitments undertaken by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1031	In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State confirms that any electrification of Snow White will increase the deficit in the force balance and increase the need for inter alia imports. coal-polluting power. Can the Council of State give me a reasonable explanation as to why the strength of this project is different from that of other domestic uses? Indeed, increased demand in the domestic market without increased output must have the same effect, regardless of its power? And so on: a few days ago, the Council of State handed over the report from the Gas Technology Committee, which states that we have to wait almost ten years for gas power technology with CO2 management, as it should now be called so fine. Immediately thereafter, the Council of State sets aside the report and will now build pilot plants – costing what it will – with technology that does not exist. My question will therefore be: does not the Council of States trust the foremost expertise we have in this area? And does the Council of State really have a conscience to waste billions of taxpayers' money on such airlocks? There must be airlocks when it comes to technology that does not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1038	On the basis that this would be a reasonable answer, I have to make a reservation that the representative, Mr. Waksdal, and I put the same thing into the concept of reasonableness. The first question was what is the difference between the gas power plant to operate Snow White and the gas power plants to supply the system. The difference is that we have a schedule to go after when it comes to Snow White. We don't have good environmental alternatives to the gas power plant that we're going to install there. On the other hand, we have that in terms of supplying the network. I'm going to come back to that with the Gas Technology Committee. In the meantime, we are going to develop good, environmentally friendly solutions, both through an increase, through new renewable energy sources and by upgrading hydroelectric power plants, strengthening cables and working for CO2-free gas power plants. Then I'm on the other question: What about the Gas Technology Committee's setting? I recommend that the reading setting also for Øyvind Waksdal, because he reproduces the selection incorrectly. They don't say we have to wait ten years. They say that they recommend a strategy that makes us first take all the ideas and not write them down. Then we're going to test between pilot project and demonstration facilities, and then, after ten years, it's going to stand out which of these technologies should be commercialised. My strategy is different. Nor is it true that there is currently no technology available for a pilot demonstration facility. That's what we have, and that's what the Gas Technology Committee says. But they think we're not going to get started with this already, but first take theories for ourselves. So they have one more, we're going to call it a scientific, careful approach to this. I have allowed myself, as the Council of State responsible for this area, to have a more ardent vision and a more ambitious plan of progress. I think it makes sense in cooperation with Statoil to work on such a pilot plant. Statoil has the technology and the ideas. I believe in Natural Power and Statoil as much as I respect the strategy that the Gas Technology Committee has come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1049	I first want to challenge the Council of States in an area that has been up several times, and on which the Left Party has replied with confirmation. There may well be doubts in relation to St.prp. No 35 for 2001-2002 on a charging scheme to apply to Snow White. In the Sem statement, it is very clear: ‘It is foreseen that the Snow White project will pay a CO2 tax once the project has been realised.’ My first question is therefore: is this what is written in the Sem statement, as a debt in Snow White Sacre? Then the state councils were inside the so-called energy plant – which is the word the state council uses, but as SV and environmental pipelines call for highly impurising gas power plants – should be subject to the same treatment as galled normally before 9 March 2000. Is it so to understand that we can interpret the Council of State and insofar as the Prime Minister, too, in the sense that the SFT is now to be given back its authority, that they should be able to operate independently? Or is it so to understand that SFT is actually instructed to say that one should build this gas power plant on Snow White? Governments must never be in doubt that if he wants to go any way in a positive environmental policy, there are 23 representatives from SV who can participate and make a multiple, even if he wants to give the supervisory authority its power back. Let's just say that two years ago, the Council of State meant the opposite of what he thinks today, and that SV together with the environmental movement and part of the bishops now is what's left of what he used to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1063	With regard to the CO2 tax, the Sem declaration is clear on that point, namely that once the project is realised, the CO2 tax will be paid, and I will return to Stortinget with the necessary proposals in that context. In the case of SFT, let me just say this: SFT is a professional body, which on an independent basis, but within the framework of the legislation that this hall, among other things. decide, legislate and rules, shall assess the individual projects. The framework for SFT's professional supervision is determined by the Stortinget, but it is professionally exercised by the SFT, and it is a good thing what an oil and energy minister is going to refer to a body under another department. But this is our starting point. So it was claimed that I mean the opposite of these gas power plants today than I meant in the previous ageing period. That's not right, I have exactly the same point of view that I had at that time. And that's some of the explanation that we have to take a loop or two for a good cause, to get CO2-free gas power plants. I've been willing to spend money on it, I've been willing to stand in a storm for it, and one shouldn't listen long in a debate until one notices that here I don't necessarily have all the parties in Stortinget with me. And the Snow White case and the gas power plant are a difficult matter, but it's admiring me – I'm sorry, President – also difficult for the opposition, because it falls completely apart. Some people think about us because we've put ourselves on the line that we're going to build some gas power plants, which I was against, while others think that the Right is now flat for the Christian People's Party's environmental policy. At least it's a rather scattered opposition to what you might think about these matters. We have gone in and had a hand on the steering wheel, I would say to the representative Langeland, and through that we have also had an influence on environmental policy, which has moved significantly, precisely because we chose to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1073	If it is that ‘admiring me’ is valid in the Christian People’s Party, neither does the President have any problem with it. But it has to be said, of course, that's very clear. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1076	I'll normally be careful with the choice of words. I understand it's not time for rematches. We have established today that the environment is losing in this round. And Steensnæs is honest -- I think he actually is -- he says he's been skeptical all along. Others in the Christian People's Party may also have been honest, but they have at least changed their mind a lot during this time. Steensnæs also says that he sees CO2 as a challenge. But nothing has happened particularly on these nearly exactly two years that have passed since Bondevik actually asked cabinet questions about whether or not to build polluting gas power plants. He stressed that it was very important to meet the Kyoto obligations, and if we built these, we would be even more distant from doing so. That's why the government went off. And it hasn't happened so much since that time in this area. This week, too, we could read in the Evening Post that the challenge will be further exacerbated now when starting up a gaseous power plant, because it will increase emissions by 2 pst. The government’s own gas technology selection – a lot has been mentioned about it now – concluded that at least no change could be made to this before 10 years. We have – of course everyone knows it, and everyone acknowledges it – certain climate obligations in relation to the Kyoto agreement, and I have only a very simple question to the Council of State: What sectors do the Christian People's Party think should bear the burden of following up and taking the cut that is necessary domestically? Is it the industry, is it the households, or is it the car traffic to be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1087	Just to answer the last few cards: I think we all actually have to contribute to get this in port. I don't think any sector can say that now we've done what can be done, now others get to take over. I believe that all the sectors that Inger Enger has now listed must expect them to be faced with stricter requirements. In fact, it has also proved technologically that by making strict demands, the technology that meets these requirements has been developed. The representative mentioned the car park, and there are good examples of the fact that a more stringent environmental legislation has forced technology meeting the requirements for better environmentally friendly solutions for our vehicles. The same applies to gas power plants, as is the industry. Wherever there is a willingness to make environmental demands, this has been met with a technology that has solved it. And I'm also happy to admit -- since I got credit for being honest -- that I'm a technology optimist in that way that I believe that if only those who are legislators, and we who propose the laws, can agree on the goals, then we'll be able to succeed in meeting these important challenges. But then to a misunderstanding, which I think the representative Inger Enger is guilty of. It's not a change of policy on our part. The Christian People's Party has not changed its policy or view of what has to do with CO2-free gas power plants, but we have had a different strategy than the Center Party has had. We have entered into a cooperation, taken a government responsibility, and the result has been that we have moved the Right in environmental policy safely into the centre, where they were not. And it's made a real point that instead of building an unlimited number of gas power plants, it's just going to be built three plus Snow White. Then it's hour out. Also in the climate communication – it will be made clear in a very short time – we will see that we have taken concrete steps in a more environmentally friendly direction compared to what had happened if we had not taken this government responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1094	Actually, I do want to give this line to the Right, so that they can answer the claim that the Council of State just made. What is clear, however, is that the Christian People's Party has had a revelation in relation to gas power stations and this matter. When Steensnæs now says that he has the same opinion as he had two years ago, I just have to make it clear that he does not have at least the same meaning as he had two months ago, because then he writes in St.prp. No 35: ‘The snow-white power plant is dimensioned in terms of snow-white power and heat requirements and the installation is therefore different from gas power stations that sell electricity as their primary purpose.’» So I'm sorry that Steensnæs says we refer a lot to the newspaper. But then maybe he should stop speaking to the newspapers, because we have to use articles where he's quoted. So the same council says there's no big difference; compared to the CO2 emissions, the problem is the same. Then I have to ask, why did the Center government go off? Did it have anything to do with CO2 emissions at all? And in relation to the argument that they have carried out environmental investigations that are better than the Workers' Party had set up, I have to get Steensnæs to answer whether he can point to any difference whatsoever between the proposition of this government and any submission from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1106	I was educated as a pedagogue, and when I was in school, I was considered a patient teacher who had a sense of the art of rehearsal. So for students who did not perceive the message the first time, I would like to repeat it. And now it's probably the third or fourth time I'm allowed to repeat this for the representative of Klungland. I'm fine as long as the representative Klungland quotes me. I really appreciate that. But when he tries to explain what's in it, he tracks off. The ratio is, as I said in my previous answer here, that these gas power plants are different in that way that one we have to construct now because we have a limited time frame in the case of Snow White. With regard to those who are going to deliver to the web, I think we have better time. But with regard to the CO2 problem, it's quite right what I'm saying to the Newspaper, that the problem is exactly the same. The challenge is exactly the same, and it was also my challenge. Why is the Working Party not more concerned with the CO2 problem related to Snow White? I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has joined our request to participate in a pilot plant on Snow White. But I'm actually very much in doubt about what is the Workers' Party's view when I hear the representative of Klungland, who goes to the war of the Snow White Project largely here today, because he gives a completely different idea of what the Workers' Party is concerned about. It seems that these CO2-free gas power stations and the environmental and climate concerns are not at all central. I'm happy with what's written in, and relate to it, because I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1115	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1118	With today’s decision, Norway will take an important step forward as a gas nation. This is not only important for Finnmark and North Norway, but for the entire oil and gas nation of Norway. For the first time, we decide to expand a project to deliver large scale LNG, a product that is growing demand in the international market, representing the development of new oil and gas technologies. It's a huge and exciting industrial project we're agreeing to today. The working party has long been in favour of exploiting the gas resources in the Snow White field, but the assumption has always been that it needs to be done in an environmentally sound way. There is no doubt that we are facing major challenges in this area. But I have to say that I am quite provoked when the Council of State again tries to give the impression that the Christian People's Party and the government parties should be more environmentally friendly than the Workers' Party in this matter. I want to challenge the government parties and the government councils to point out what point in this setting it is Christian People's Party and the Government seems more environmentally friendly than us. I also encourage the Government, the Council of State and the Government parties to stand for what they stand for, instead of creating the impression of something else. There is a complete agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties in this setting. This also applies to issues relating to CO2 emissions, and it was imposed on us in relation to the fact that the Government will come back with a plan in the gas message in June. We have always said, both in this context and in other contexts, that we must always use the most environmentally friendly technology at our disposal, also in the case of Snow White, while continuing to work with CO2 abatement technology. That is why we need more pilot plants in the case of CO2-free gas power plants. Statoil, for its part, has said that they believe that the most realistic is Kårstø. But I would have asked myself to be put in a booth where the impression is that the Workers' Party should be less environmentally friendly than the government parties. There's no reason to claim. The government parties have used as an argument in this debate that one of the reasons one has spent a longer time on this matter by the government is that one should consider the environmental aspects more closely. All right. But we have a letter in hand, we, from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, dated as early as November 27th, where the Ministry of Environment says that so far it has been fulfilled in their opinion. When the Council of State instead responded to my line in which I urged the Christian People's Party to say things as they are, the Council of State replied that the Workers' Party would be less concerned with CO2 emissions than the Government. I have now refuted that. Governments also know that this is a mistake in relation to previous spending on CO2-free gas power plants and other measures, in research and development, in order to do things in the most environmentally friendly ways. I hope we avoid getting that kind of claim in the further debate on this matter, and in other similar cases. Then I want to say a little about the question of the cooling water on Snow White. The council did not answer that question. I think the reality is that if you were to get on that line of government parties have done on that issue, that is, to leave it to the community and the operators, there would probably not have been any good use of that cooling water, because it costs a lot of money. I am very pleased that the Swedish Labour Party and the Advance Party support the Workers' Party in imposing also on the operator to join a split team to make this become a reality in relation to jobs, which are badly needed in Hammerfest and in Finnmark otherwise, and which will be a further positive contribution in this matter. Snow White will be as environmentally friendly as it can be with today's technology, and there will be many jobs in Finnmark. It is good district policy, and it will take us an important step further as a gas nation and in the development of new technologies, which will also contribute to a good empowerment in Finland, in northern Norway, and in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1137	We can all have, and have, different approaches to using the resources that nature has given us. For my part, I have the basic view that balanced use of resources is a good thing that we should benefit from. The opposite, not to take advantage of the possibilities, is almost wasteful for me. In the debate on Snow White Development, the negative problem areas have been highlighted to a large extent. This is particularly true in relation to our fishing resources and in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. Fish organisations support the development of Snow White. That means that the group that no-side uses as an important argument to stop the project, that is, a clear yes to expansion. The petroleum industry and the fishing industry are able to live side by side in the North Sea. Why don't they have to do the same thing in the Barents Sea? The North Sea is also among the world's most productive seas, with a lot of valuable fishing resources. When I listen to the environmental debate, I'm often left with the question of whether it really is so that people in our northern part of the country are going to live in a nature reserve, or whether they're actually going to have something to live on. In fact, we are talking about one part of the country and several communities that have been heavily affected by negative elements, such as the loss of businesses and the decline in the population. Snow-white development will undoubtedly be a strong stimulus to growth in our northern part of the country, both in terms of economic development, tax revenue and population. The construction phase and the operation itself are of course important elements, but the main factor will undoubtedly be the development of competence in the wake of the opening of the Barents Sea to gas extraction. The introduction of new business activity, new professional environments, new businesses or changing challenges for existing businesses will help to develop environments of excellence that are most likely to provide the best and strongest ring-effects of snow-white development. In the long term, this could result in a variety of job offers that make it attractive to live in this part of the country, or attractive to return from other parts of the country. Nor is it the case that the Snow White extension is a project reserved for Hammerfest and our northern part of the country alone. This is a project that will benefit our entire petroleum industry, and not least its related subcontracting industry. In the Snow White project, Norwegian petroleum industry will have a new leg in terms of the product itself. Furthermore, new technologies will be introduced and will contribute to the setting of environmental standards for this northern sea area – environmental standards that can become an important export article for similar areas in the next round, not least on the other side of the north-east border. These are processes that are most likely to occur as a natural consequence of the decision taken by the majority of the Storting as it is likely to take place today. However, it is sad to say that some people have more faith than others in imposing activities in relation to economic development. In this case, this proposal by a majority of the Committee, which, strangely enough, also includes the Progress Party, concerns that the Storting should impose on the builder and the rightholders not only to facilitate, but also to participate in, the implementation of, inter alia, cooling water transfer lines to the industrial area of Kvlöya. aquaculture industry. The imposition of this type of cost is the introduction of a completely new practice in relation to the granting of development permits. Right-wing think it's natural that Statoil and the rightholders have a social responsibility and commit themselves to the community, but we don't want to impose this on them. On the contrary, we believe that this is a matter that needs to be discussed between the builder and the local authorities. Unfortunately, we're in the minority on this issue. One last positive aspect of the expansion that I want to mention here concerns the emergency situation. There is already significant coastal shipping in these areas, a traffic with some dangerous loads on board from an environmental point of view. We're vulnerable to accidents. As a result of the snow-white development and the operation of the fields, preparedness will generally improve, which will also be positive for the overall preparedness of the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1165	This is a happy day. I would therefore like to congratulate the Government with a good proposal and the Committee with a positive vote. I have to admit, however, that I'm a little surprised by the lack of enthusiasm of some of the government's figures. In my view, they have reason today to hit their breasts. Instead, they mumble and apologize for agreeing to support this great project. Since we found oil and gas in the North Sea at the end of the 1960s, it has been a goal that as many parts of Norway as possible would be able to participate in the oil adventure, and among others. Therefore, the Stortinget decided to add parts of the Oil Directorate’s activity to Harstad almost 20 years ago. Finally, an old dream is fulfilled. Finally, the northernmost parts of the country are also being exploited by their own petroleum resources, as has been done for almost 30 years by people farther south on the coast. This continent has been waiting a long time. As a Westerner, I know what the use of oil and gas resources has meant for my part of the country. I hope that Finnmark and North Norway will have the same positive ringing effects that we have had. In Hammerfest and North Norway are great. The expansion will give you extended activity and renewed optimism. Of course, I am pleased with the local support and the local involvement that has been demonstrated. But this isn't just for Finnmark or North Norway. This expansion is a national project and is important for Norway as an oil and gas nation. With the decision taken today, we are taking an important step forward to confirm Norway as one of the most important gas nations in the world, and not least in Europe. By now making a part of our gas available as LNG, we can get new markets, which can once again be involved and switch off the price we get for our gas. This is one of the largest industrial projects ever, not only in North Norway, but in Norway as a whole. The expansion will therefore have great significance, not least for our supplier industry. Some years ago, 20,000 jobs in this industry disappeared in a year. The previous government turned all the stones to try to get the activity back up again. I did it. But it is clear that if the Stortinget were to say no to new projects, the whole job would be in vain, and the thousands of jobs we have in the Norwegian supplier industry along our entire west coast would be highly threatened. As so often before, there are many myths out and go when Stortinget deals with an important energy project. One such myth is that the previous government should have an emergency treatment and almost irresponsible treatment of this matter. This is deliberate misinformation. I think this information is very useful for decorating the image by itself and perhaps its own conscience, or maybe for giving its own piece a little fig leaf. In any case, the claim is customs and clothing. The truth is that this matter was never dealt with by the government of Stoltenberg, simply because we had to leave before it was submitted. Nor had I, as an oil and energy minister, got this thing on my table when I had to pack the sniper. Had I, however, been able to continue, I would of course have submitted to an ordinary and ordinary procedure on this matter, like all other matters. As I see it, at least there is no difference in the way that the new government has dealt with this matter, in relation to what the previous government would have done. Of course, we would have done what was necessary, and we would have taken the necessary time. I think it's serious when the committee's leader spreads such unhealthy and false rumors and claims about the previous government. Another claim is that we've added up here to subsidize. It's also customs and clothes. It was so that if one were to build out Snow White, there was no access to pipes, and then one had to go on LNG. Then one competes on an international market, and fortunately the Stortinget has previously arranged for one of these to have framework conditions as in other areas. Another claim is that one opens the Barents Sea. Nor is that the case. The Barents Sea is open for oil activity a long time ago, on the Russian side. In fact, I believe that an activity on the Norwegian side can help us get a better and more environmentally friendly use of resources on the Russian side. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that a non-proprietary operation of this LNG system is going to be driven by coal power, but that one uses gas power technology. I am also pleased that the current Council of State has adopted the previous Council of State's argument for why this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1188	Let me first say to the representative of Klungland that the Right is very comfortable with its environmental policy platform. It seems to me to be a value-conservative party that holds the precautionary principle high in claim. That the Workers' Party is now "accused" to us for being too environmentally friendly, I take great care. The election break-up of the Workers' Party may indicate that it is the Workers' Party that is not entirely in place over time. The Snow White gas is a fantastic resource that will provide value creation in the continent in the form of increased activity and new jobs. There are a lot of people who have been involved here today. But the plant, which is partly placed on the seabed, also becomes the most modern that exists, and let me add: the most gentle to nature. As seen, the Snow White project is also a significant environmental project – an environmental/development project that in an exciting way brings new knowledge and know-how and shifts the limits of resource use and technology development towards even better environmental achievement. Production is carried out in a closed system with irradiable installations on the seabed. Here we don't have problems with so-called water produced, permanent water discharges to the sea are to be cleaned. Ballast water in ships shall be contained in separate tanks and discharged into the open sea. The NOx emissions are only 1 pst. of the limit value, and best of all: the plant will produce a pure LNG product, which will relieve customers of energy sources with significantly greater pollution, including to the global environment. Furthermore, the plant is a huge resource for developing new temperate water products as a source in large quantities. Bioprotein or fish feed is becoming a scarce product, and exhaust gases from the gas power plant provide exciting opportunities for an added value creation in the form of algae production for fish feed, which will also reduce emissions of both NOx and CO2. And not least exciting: the South Eye. This is an exciting spin-off project based on a small Sørøya power plant, based on LNG, which also provides hot water as an additional resource and basis for other industrial activities. And so this is in South Island, which ensures a stable force and an overmeasured nutritional potential for example. smelt production — a pilot project that will certainly continue to be used in other smaller coastal areas that are struggling with difficult and unstable power supply conditions. Not only is Snow White LNG industrial development with ample development of competence in itself, it is also an environmental/competence development project that will bring Norway as an environmental nation to the fore. It forces innovative thinking and innovation in environmental technologies, not only in Melkoya, but most likely also in relation to the Kårstø gas power plant, where Statoil may find it appropriate to build the first CO2-free gas power plant as a pilot plant. So this is truly a big day – I fully agree with the representative Akssen i – not just for North Norway, but for the entire oil nation, because this gives our leading research and development environments the opportunity to bring us even closer to the goal of CO2 free emissions and clean installations. It is an illusion to believe that this kind of environmental technology is being developed so as to say by itself or is being run by old-fashioned politicians from reactionary parties. No, of course, it's only in a creative process where development is progressing in relation to technology and opportunities, i.e. in a business environment, that this can happen. This is the case with all skills development, not just in the oil industry. So let's congratulate rightholders, Hammerfest and Finnmark and all those who believe in the free business that under responsibility extract resources for the common good and bring us a long step closer to the goal of clean emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1206	The Barents Sea is one of the world’s most fishing regions and a very important growing area for the fish that forms the basis for the fishing industry along the Norwegian coast. At the same time, it is a very vulnerable area, including: long darkness time – and oil degradation time is long. The consequences of an accident are likely to be greater in the Barents Sea than in other parts of Norwegian Socket. This is not a mere Norwegian environmental activist claim. The Norwegian authorities have already long admitted that the Barents Sea is particularly vulnerable. Therefore, there have been strict restrictions on when, in the year in which testing has been permitted in the Barents Sea. In the Snow White area there has been a ban on drilling from 20 March to 1 August. A yes to Snow White means that, for the first time, full-year petroleum activity is granted in the Barents Sea. Therefore, in this case we should be extra careful. I believe that there are sea areas that are too vulnerable and resource-rich to allow petroleum activities. The Barents Sea is such an area. The least that could be required is that we have a proper knowledge base before making such a decision as the Stortinget is going to make today, but the State Pollution Control Agency, the Directorate of Nature Management and the Norwegian Polar Institute all claim that the overall effects of oil and gas activities in the Barents Sea are currently too poorly investigated. The Ministry of Fisheries is of the same opinion. In their opinion dated 10 July 2001, they wrote among others: that they have: ‘great concerns that this sea area should be subjected to an environmental impact that could lead to a reduction in the productivity of marine resources’.» [[i.e. the Barents Sea]] In its main conclusion, the Ministry of Fisheries writes: ‘A better knowledge base for any long-term impact of emissions should be provided. This should be part of a comprehensive impact assessment of the total emissions from the development and operation of the installation. The final decision should therefore be deferred until such an overall assessment has been carried out.’;» This writes the Ministry of Fisheries and receives support from the industry. This can be seen clearly and clearly, including: of an opinion of the Fiskerlagen on 26 May 2001 and a decision of the Landsföreningsförsningens Landsförening – FNL – 23 October 2001. In addition to the risk to the marine environment posed by the Snow White project, the project involves the construction of a gas power plant. One year and 263 days ago, the Bondevik government — the central government — went and justified it because it could not accept the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. Then there is a paradox that the first case of the Bondevik II administration has been dealt with in the Energy and Environment Committee is a yes to what will become the country's first gas power plant – and it will be a highly polluting gas power plant. So the Christian People's Party has turned the reel around in this case. Had the Christian People's Party refused, there had been no Snow White Decision today. Instead, Bondevik and Steensnæs go into the bust and not only say yes to Snow White, but they can at worst become drivers to weaken the law in order to achieve their goals. The proposition states that the Ministry is working on proposals to amend the scope of the Petroleum Act so that all parts of the land system are covered by the Petroleum Act. This may in practice mean that the environmental movement can lose the ability of today, because today, gas power plants and power lines are subject to the Energy Act. Bondevik writes in a letter to Kristin Halvorsen that the gas power plant is to be treated under the Energy Act. The same is true of Einar Steensnæs today. We have to assume that it is still at work, but this is still unclear, and there is another element that makes this matter problematic. It has been stressed several times in the debate that, in relation to any new petroleum projects in the Barents Sea, a comprehensive impact assessment must be carried out. I sincerely hope that there are promises that are being followed up. Goliath is a large oil field just south of Snow White, and very near the coast. The oil company Agip plans to send an application to the Ministry of Oil and Energy to start in March 2003. If the government says yes then, in the worst case it can only take from one to two years before Stortinget gets a case on the table, this time about oil extraction. According to the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 February, the government has started to monitor the effects of oil and gas extraction in the north. The Land Association of the Oil Industry shall be active in the investigation. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on this in the Chamber today, because the question is whether this investigation will have any real meaning. The question is simply: do we dare to be tough enough that day Goliath knocks on the door? I would like to inform you that I will vote against I, but that I will substantially support II and also minority proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1240	There's been some discussion here about new rhetoric. I used in my article CO2 reducing technology. It's because I'm honest enough to say that I'm not sure if we can take the step fully and get CO2-free gas power plants like that right away. But I think we can get pretty far in getting in technology that can reduce emissions at such gas plants. I also strongly oppose the fact that we are still talking about highly polluting. One would then think that there was something dark, dirty that ran out of these gas power stations. CO2 is really pretty important for people, so I think you should moderate that rhetoric too. So it's this with gas power plants versus energy plants. I used the word energy plant just because this is only for operating the LNG system, but it's clear it's powered by gas power. It's a gas power plant, so I don't have a problem comparing the two. We are making an offensive contribution to climate policy. Intensive research was adopted in the budget. We want a pilot plant. Research and development and production must go hand in hand. From my experience at Business College BI with all the research that was there, I know that it's not like you're just sitting in an office thinking out silly thoughts, and then you think it's all of a sudden solving the problems. This must go hand in hand with the fact that you really start working on it in practice, and therefore we believe that Snow White is important. When the Gas Technology Committee says ten years, it's kind of the same way of thinking. I think that starting with a pilot project allows you to see opportunities before you reach the decade limit. But we don't know that, and they don't know that either. That's why it's important to start, and then make this go hand in hand. We have introduced leadership that the department must follow up, and I feel very comfortable with it, and feel that we have a good environmental profile on this project. The proceedings are being criticised. There has been a regular impact assessment of Snow White and Gas separately. It's good. But we've said, and it's repeated over and over again, that it's not an oil extraction plant we're now building, it's a gas plant, and that means it's properly evaluated. You talk about Bondevik's letter. I don't think there's anything new in it. Statoil has confirmed that the existing propulsion plan does not impede such development. Then there is the use of cooling water and hot water. Why have not the government parties given to the operator and build regulations? Yes, it is for the simple reason that we have seen too many projects that have been built without really having carried out a profitability assessment. Is this profitable, and can this be profitable? Nothing would please me more than that one could set up favorable projects that have good profitability, and where the operator, rightholder, participates as owner, shareholder or otherwise, but I don't think we're going to oblige anyone to do anything without knowing that this is really profitable. We want you to have a profitable project up there. For me as ‘do not understand politics’, it is quite interesting to note that the Workers' Party is so busy talking about why the Christian People's Party has turned around. Now we should all be happy that this was a good project – I think it's important – and I hope that's where we end up during the day. It is clear that our northernmost part of the country and Finnmark depend on fish. It is important to assess and assess whether it is possible to have petroleum activities — oil too — together with fish. But there's an impact assessment we're about to make, and then all parties have to be open to take into account what comes out, and not expect it to stop. We're going to make an unsound assessment, and I think that makes a lot of sense. It's also a little interesting that the parties that are most opposed to the development of Snow White are the ones who also make sure that you can't process the fish in North Norway and thus get the processing profit. I think that's a little funny. The representative Inger Enger asked who's going to take the noise when you're building this out. Yes, industry has taken part of the noise, oil and gas activities must take part of the noise, and agriculture must take part of the noise, which they have not yet begun. So there are many people who have to take care of it, but the most important thing now is that we continue to work to get CO2 abatement plants. In this way, we will solve part of our Kyoto commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1275	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1278	The Snow White project, with gas from the fields Snow White, Albatross and Ashkeladd, has a positive impact on the production of LNG on land and not on the production platform in the Barents Sea. A farm on land will be much safer, it represents a smaller risk, regardless of our perception of weather conditions, either on the basis of the Party of Advancement or on the basis of the other party's measurement point. ==References== 160 km of pipelines to be laid, so that the disadvantages for fishermen are reduced, are also strongly focussed. In addition, the installations on the seabed shall be designed to minimise the disadvantages. CO2, which is in the gas from the wells, is separated out and returned to the reservoir. The main challenge will be to get power to the LNG facility. Electricity demand is about as high as current total consumption in Finnmark County. There should be great creativity in order to generate power without strong impurity in the image, and solutions that can reduce or remove CO2 and other harmful emissions must be in place. The majority of the Committee expects that the builder and operator will make maximum efforts to avoid the generation of electricity leading to the emission of harmful greenhouse gases. I want to point to four issues that are relevant. Firstly, the positive thing is that the onshore LNG facility is considered to be the most environmentally friendly – or at least environmentally harmful – LNG facility in the world. Secondly, the biggest industrial effort in Northern Norway will bring many positive effects, for Hammerfest, for Finnmark, for the region and, of course, for the country otherwise. Norway as an oil and gas nation will face new and demanding challenges. Implementing a development project in a harsh and at the same time where and at the same time vulnerable environment will provide experience and knowledge that will benefit both nationally and internationally. Thirdly, health, environment and safety have been at the heart of the Snow White project. This project will be closely followed, and therefore it should be a pilot project for all areas. As a natural consequence of the points 1, 2 and 3 that I have mentioned, it should follow a point 4, that the necessary electrical energy should be provided as clean, renewable energy. Subsidiarity should produce electrical energy with minimal harmful emissions. Here are the main challenges. The Snow White project has so many positive elements that harmful CO2 emissions should not be compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1293	Everyone's heard the adventure of Snow White and the seven dwarfs. Now the whole world is going to get to know Snow White, Albatross and Ashkeladd, and now the whole world is going to become acquainted with North Norway, the biggest industrial effort to now in Norway in a new century and the largest ever in North Norway. After 18 years of preparation, this industrial effort would be well prepared. I cannot understand those who believe that we should continue to conduct impact assessments in relation to the gas extraction. As I interpret it, it is not a desire for investigation, but a desire for total stopping. Unfortunately, the Central Party comes under this category – the party that calls itself the District Party over something. Does the Centre Party want food development in District Norway? Snow White development is good news both for business and for anyone who wants to live in this part of the country. But it's also a national industrial promise, which this time has its main seat in the north. This will provide the national community with a wide range of opportunities for empowerment, new start-ups in technical services and services. In North Norway, we have great industrial competence, and we can operate under marginal conditions. For the part of the country, the battle for deliveries is worth $1 billion. Let's get a lot of people involved in this! While both Prime Minister and Minister of Finance travel around the country preaching about a pessimistic, subsidized and seventeenth quarter of the country, the Saving Bank of North Norway has concluded that all arrows point upwards. We're going to prove that. We in North Norway are also listening to other wise people than just governors. If this part of the country is so bad, why did the government cut off SND funds, research, municipal food funds, fuel subsidies? It was a blow of mercy to the part of the country. But we'stand off', as it is called in Northern Norwegian. With regard to the Snow White Development and CO2 Emissions, these are very big considering that we should be able to meet our commitments in relation to the Kyoto Agreement. It is therefore very important to exert pressure on the builders to find technological solutions for CO2 emissions. Looking at global emissions, the gas is involved in reducing the use of oil and coal, thereby saving the environment. This seabed installation does not create environmental problems at sea, but with the possible future extraction of oil, the precautionary principle should be taken into account. The Barents Sea is and will become a vulnerable fishing area, but it must and must be able to live in the sea areas north of 65oN.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1306	We are moving towards the end of this debate, which has now been for many hours. I just want to, after following the debate, take a few brief, summarizing points relating to some of the posts. As regards the post for Inger Enger, this is a new turn from the Central Party. In the areas where district and industrial development are opposed to environmental considerations, it has been a good centre party tradition to leave the environment at risk, and then economic development and district policies are won. We've seen that in some other areas, in interesting debates in this room before, and we'll probably see it again. So it's going to be exciting to see if the Central Party now claims that they're putting the environment ahead of food and district policy, will make a difference in other contexts – which is a demanding challenge, also for the Center Party. That is the question of Bondevik's letter, which has been discussed by many today. This letter from Kjell Magne Bondevik is not at all alarming. It has been known that energy plants had to be treated under the Energy Act, and that means that there has not been an opportunity to build over land until there is a concession and an emission permit. This is not new and alarming. It's a clarification from the Prime Minister when others have obviously not been aware of it, and it's completely in line with the time frame that Statoil itself has put in. Then it has been claimed that we left in 2000 because we did not want to build polluting gas power plants. Let me say this: we haven't changed our position. We have not made any u-turns, as Sylvia Brustad claims. On the other hand, we have maintained our position, but we have gone in to influence the profile of the project in order to get it more environmentally friendly. We did that. What was in the rationale for the departure of the central government was that we did not want to weaken the pollution law as an instrument for achieving a political objective that the majority wanted – an adaptation of the law according to the political wishes of the time. That was kind of the official reason why the government of Bondevik I left. This is the case with the Gas Technology Committee, which was also in the Progress Party, and they were wondering if the Council of State had no confidence in the expertise that had stated that this would be on time. And then the same party representative is standing here saying that they don't trust the expertise that pretty much all over the world says we have a climate problem. No, they don't trust that. With what reason can one be surprised that a Council of State wants to have political ambitions in addition to the purely professional and expert opinions that come? It's a little bit weird, so it's not consistent with what's being said. So that's the question: Who's most environmentally friendly? Sylvia Brustad was in on it. I'm not going to help at the tame of the debate to define it, but it was an interesting post from the Aksen, which ironized over, among other things. Christian People's Party in this matter because we somehow excused ourselves. What we did was we went into this because it was environmentally challenging. There were many environmental tasks to deal with, while the Axis on its side stated that this is okay, we have no problems with this. He thus welcomed it as warmly as he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1321	I can be short. I think this has been a good debate. I guess it hasn't offered you any direct surprises. Some clarifications I hope have helped to get on the table. I just want to comment briefly on Sylvia Brustad's provocation. I actually perceived it as positive. I just want to say that I have never accused the Workers' Party that this should be an expression of a sort of 'gubbed' in the Workers' Party. She could have been provoked by that. I would also, as a newly created old man, have been provoked to do so. [[muttering in the hall]] With regard to the important cooling water project, I notice that the committee has had a different assessment of this. I think it must be right to say that the Storting together wants the energy resources associated with the cooling water to be used in such a way that it can contribute to and increase the value creation in the region. When a majority will now vote for an obligation on the part of the developer to co-finance such projects, I only wish for such projects to have a safe commercial basis and for such projects to be co-financed – in order to use such an expression – in such a way that it is also EEA-compatible. It is also important for other sites that could have similar ambitions to exploit an industrial establishment for more than what is the primary purpose. In any case, I would like to comment on the Storting that such a condition attached to an operator, as in this case, can create a precedent for similar wishes elsewhere, and that will of course also have to be addressed by the potential applicants in terms of costs and consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1330	As has been said many times today, this is a great day, not just for Hammerfest and Finnmark, but for the whole country and for the rest of the country. This is a project that means a great deal to lift the northern part of the country in a purely commercial way, and it will allow the economy of the continent to grow stronger in a national and international market. North Norway needs more legs to stand on, and this is a good development in that direction. This is not a subsidy project. The Snow White project offers the possibility of delivering Norwegian gas to new markets, and I have no doubt that the field will be an important contribution to meet an increasing gas demand in Europe. Environmental conditions have been strongly promoted in the debate, not least by the operators themselves. We all want strong environmental requirements for such activities, and we all want to take care of nature and the environment. However, research and competence have enabled Norway to become an oil and gas nation, while maintaining the environment in a very good way. This will also be the case in this case, and I feel confident that, among other things. fisheries can live safely side by side with Snow White and other such activities. In fact, for the fisheries there are other issues that concern me more. There must be no doubt that Hammerfest is the Snow White town, but I am also concerned that the positive ring effects must benefit as much as possible in the form of, among other things. strengthening the professional and professional environments in the north. I have no doubt that Norwegian suppliers can assert themselves strongly if they have the opportunity to do so. It must also be natural for Statoil to assign the part of the Snow White project related to drilling, geology and licensing management to the Medkila Centre in Harstad. I am pleased that the Snow White project can finally get started, and I hope this is just the beginning of this industry in the northern part of the country. North Norway is a resourceful and forward-looking part of the country, and the population is willful and positive. That's why the whole country needs a bigger activity in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1345	Despite the fact that today the Storting will probably take decisions that we, who have a heart that beats for nature and environmental protection, are not pleased, it is important at the end of the debate to remember that the last words about Snow White have not been said. I want to say that there are some positive moves that have happened today. I am pleased that the government councils and representatives of the government parties say so clearly that the Snow White plant is subject to a CO2 tax. This does not entail insignificant costs. I also welcome that letter from Prime Minister Bondevik to SV last week, stressing that the builders of Snow White must have consent before starting the work at the LNG factory itself. Then I am also happy that we can create a majority today for a project that allows us to exploit waste heat. All of this has to be reviewed by the developers when they are ultimately required to assess whether they are interested in making an investment decision on this project. The greatest uncertainty with Snow White is only affected today, because the greatest uncertainty facing the developers is the ESA's handling of this matter. I have to say that sometimes it is enough that we send a thought to ESA when we pray evening prayers every night. We will continue to do so in this case. But summed up is a not insignificant uncertainty Statoil has to deal with when to start on Snow White – or not. My hope is that they're thinking about Statoil, using to lead the goods-thinking also financially. If they are in the vicinity of being right in what they said here at the hearing and said that this was a limitless, economically profitable project, then it cannot be that their gas contracts are so fragile that if the project is postponed for only one or a half years, it is no longer the market for the gas that it is to be so terribly profitable to use. For SFT’s assessment of the case: In the case of the polluting gas power stations, the SFT would assess whether gas power would distort coal power in the market. In Snow White, this matter is very simple. You don't want to crowd out coal power in the power market, because you know who the trigger is, one and only the LNG factory. Comparing CO2 emissions from LNG with CO2 emissions from gas transported in pipes is the latter preferable to the environment. So the last word is not said, and we look forward to coming back to this matter also in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1366	There are many who have said today in the debate that this is a joyous day in North Norway, it is a joyous day for Finnmark. I think we have to be honest and say that the visions that have been drawn up for the part of the country in connection with the development of Snow White, cannot be realized by the development of Snow White alone. This is a first step in what's probably going to be a much larger expansion. And I want to say that the majority, with what I have heard, among other things. from the rapporteur-in-Office, create greater expectations in relation to business than can be achieved with the development of Snow White alone. In reality, this is the first step in a larger expansion not only of gas but probably also of oil, without overall impact assessments of the type of operation, as confirmed by the rapporteur. One wants to wait until overall environmental and fishing impact assessments have been carried out. For the Center Party there are two reasons that have been crucial when we want to push the development of Snow White out in time. One is the CO2 problem, which of course is not insignificant to anyone. If we cancel everything out, today's decision is that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik has for two years called a highly polluting gas power plant, now it's going to be built in Hammerfest. It is probably exactly two years since Kjell Magne Bondevik introduced the concept of highly polluting gas power plants. He has in time used that term frequently. In reply to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, the rapporteur has also confirmed in the debate today that the Government and the majority of the population now accept the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. You don't want to impose any restrictions on builders who want to impose any other conditions. The second relationship that has been crucial for the centre batch is precisely considering the fishing industry. No matter how many jobs are created related to the development of Snow White, the fishing industry in the part of the country that I come from, and for this county that we are talking about here, will be far more important in the future than the expansion of Snow White will be. The rapporteur has also confirmed today the need for a comprehensive impact assessment in relation to the fishing industry. That impact assessment has not been carried out. Then, of course, one can claim that Snow White alone is a gas development that will not have a significant impact on the fishing industry. In my opinion, it is too simple. Snow White must be seen as part of a comprehensive development of the Barents Sea. The centre party believes that we would have insisted on taking the time needed to assess the overall impact, both in relation to the environment and in relation to the fishing industry, before starting a project like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1384	I wish we could take each other a little bit on the word. I have said several times that this is a gas project. Snow White is considered consistent as a gas project. We have said that further petroleum activities should be carried out in the northern regions, in the Barents Sea, a full impact assessment will be carried out on the whole area. Then we think it's kind of funny that you're still coming back to that this is just the first step. So there's no decision on that, on the contrary. You've been told to take that impact assessment. Then it was also said from Heidi Sørensen that it is a significant responsibility. Yes, if you heard about my first post, I said that there were some issues that it had to be up to the builder or the rightholder to assess. There is no emissions permit from SFT yet. There should be an energy concession to apply for, and ESA has to deal with a complaint from Bellona. Those things have to be considered by the rightholder. However, it is on the basis of a staging proposition that the Storting should make its decision, and then the rightholders must assess whether this is acceptable from their point of view. Then the representative says that Snow White alone would have no special effect in the Hammerfest area and in Finnmark. Well, that's a pretty exciting statement. The committee was visiting Hammerfest and got a quite vivid description of what optimism it was, what you looked forward to, and what projects you were already looking at. So I have to say that the representative, Enoksen, has enough information other than the one we got from those who put close to the project in North Norway and in Hammerfest. The fact that the fish will be important in the future, I fully agree with Mr Enoxen. I think it's important here to see whether, with the impact assessment to be carried out, it's possible to have these two industries side by side. I hope so. I'm optimistic that this will happen, and I'm sure you'll get it done, there will be a whole new deal, not just in North Norway, but for Norway as a whole. We have here an opportunity for new projects that will really create great activity, big revenues, and that will make our society get good tax revenues from this industry for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1396	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1401	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 2 and Case No. 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1429	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1440	NRK -- our best friend with good programs, I now say. But of course, there are different opinions, and fortunately for that. Programme selection should not interfere with Size. I do not, however, believe, like the Council of State, that the Storting should no longer have an opinion on the political aspect of our mainstream broadcasting. The size must still be able to believe that the NRK shall be nationwide with a good local anchorage. Once the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have submitted a Document No. 8-proposals, it's not to interfere and be premature when the NRK now has to reorganize. In fact, we are committed to following up a previously adopted decision in Stortinget that the NRK should have a well-developed district broadcasting network and that this should be further developed. That is why the Stortinget has also taken decisions on local television broadcasts in Eastfold and Northland. We are afraid that a merger of Hedmark and Uppland District Offices and South and North Trøndelag is a start on merging further district offices. The Council of State has been cited as not a significant structural change in the NRC and is therefore not to be addressed politically. I find it sad that the Council of State is showing such an accident. I have to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State see as major structural changes? Will a merger of Buskerud, Vestfold and Agder counties be a significant structural change, when one sees it in conjunction with the four district offices adopted by the NRC Board? I have the impression that the Council of State is living by the principle of «not completely, but piecefully and divided». As long as they take some parts of the country, NRK's government can do as they like. But if they have submitted an overall structural change for the whole country, it will be dealt with politically. If that is the case, why does the Council of State not present an overall case for the restructuring? Is the Council of State afraid of noise, and that the consequences then become too visible? In this context, I would like to express how well the district office in Hedmark works for the heath marks today – as it does for the other district offices. We know that the number of annual jobs at the district office in Hedmark will disappear, and I fear that this will reduce the offer for the inhabitants of Hedmark. The Working Party will come back with proposals for the NRK in the context of the media communication. The working party believes that we need to look at the requirements that are set for the NRK, given that TV 2 seems to have stricter requirements in its concession. In addition, we need to look at future funding of the NRC. We want to maintain the district broadcasts both on radio and on television and further develop this. District offices shall be the base wall. With regard to the choice of network solution, there is one thing that is overall, namely that this should be an offer to everyone. And everyone has to feel that they're getting something new. Solutions that result in paying more for what you already have will be impossible. By decision on the NRK2, the size of the population has made a loss in introducing only a few in parts of the country. We have to guard against that loss in order to do it again. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the proposal of the Progress Party that has been distributed is not supported by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1461	In its presentation, the Minister for Culture has given a clear background to the main issues of the debate in winter on the NRC, namely how the Stortinget should deal with the state ownership of the NRC. The background to the statement was known to have been requested by a Document No. Eight proposals, in which the proposers considered that the amendments proposed at the NRC district offices should not be implemented until the issue was discussed in the Stortinget. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to point out that there was broad consensus in the Committee that the requirements of the proposers were essentially met by the presentation by the Minister of Culture, and that it was natural to see the Stortinge's discussion in connection with this. In a comitology by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, reference is made to the budgetary position for 2000-2001, where the same parties and the Christian People's Party are behind the following remark: ‘... if the Governing Council of the NRC were to make proposals which would entail major changes to the regional policy profile, the matter would require political consideration’. From the Right's point of view, the comment does not describe the situation we were in before Christmas, and it seems rather that the proposers are seeking to move, or so doubt, the framework of the form of a limited liability company provides for the management of the NRK. It was well known that the savings measures provided by the NRC are part of a wide-ranging plan to bring the NRC into economic balance. District offices represent a very significant part of the overall operation of the NRK, and it would be strange if this particular part were protected for action. Another question is how proposers measure district profile. They later believe that the district profile of the NRK can be measured in how many offices, buildings or employees are at the district offices. To be honest, the important aspect of this room must be the actual programme production and the role of district programmes on the NRK's transmission surface. In the light of technological developments, I think there's every reason to look at whether today's structure at the district offices provides the optimal count-out for the districts. Perhaps you would get more out to the TV screens if some of the district offices were developed further, technically and competently, in view of specific programme areas. This would probably be an example of a good district effort that today’s rather heavy structure has to endure many changes. The centre party has argued on several occasions that the form of a limited liability company should not be used for the NRK, because they want the Stortinget to have a legitimate opportunity to intervene in the operation of the NRK in relation to specific cases – this time the district offices. That the centre party thus finds it right to click with a Document No. 8 proposals in Stortinget immediately before the NRK's management, may not be so strange, but that they get the Workers' Party with them on this, gives cause for reflection. What were the proposers actually going to achieve? That the board of directors of the NRC should not implement the measures and therefore not balance the economy of the NRC? In that case, as a responsible board, they had not done their job. I guess everyone agrees that the NRK can no longer continue to clear its reserves, but now it has to implement the measures needed to balance operations and lay the necessary foundation for creating a future-oriented organisation. Perhaps the proposers would rather have thought that the NRK would cut in other areas of operation than in the district offices? So the noise would have gotten smaller, but it wouldn't have been better for the NRK. And you don't think the Storting is better fit to make operational priorities than the NRK's management? This perspective also raises the issue of trust in NRK's board of directors and day-to-day management in a slightly unpleasant way. Or perhaps it would have been thought that the board would postpone the matter and, through it, spread uncertainty and thus cause further loss to the NRK? No, the only thing you had in sight of being able to achieve in addition to favorable localisations was to contribute to making the work of the NRC Board difficult in a situation that was otherwise difficult enough. And worse, the play was obviously suitable as an attempt to undermine the long-term authority of the NRK Board. I spend so much time on this, not because the matter has turned out to be so serious in retrospect, but because it illustrates in an excellent way how little size is like the arena for this type of discussion. In terms of operations and individual programmes, Stortinget never becomes other than a visual arena. This room should stick to what it can and should, namely to draw the large lines for which the heading NRK is to be followed. This has also been suggested by the Stortinget through its decision to reorganise the NRK as a limited liability company, as well as the regular procedures underpinning the Stortingen debate on the NRK. The NRK's board of directors and the broadcaster are given greater armsstrokes and better opportunities to steer the launch forward. Why, then, is it so important that the NRK should have this freedom? The NRK is our main cultural policy tool. There is a broad political consensus that the institution plays a central role in the preservation of almost all aspects of Norwegian culture, including language, film, music or literature. The NRC shall ensure the dissemination of news, the public debate, the consideration of minorities and the districts. In short, expectations are many and large. The question that Stortinget should now ask is what is needed to meet all our agreed expectations. When this question is asked, someone will immediately hurry to give more money. And they're right that money is also necessary. The Government Parties are united in their desire that the NRK retain its position as a publicly funded public broadcaster and that the institution as such should have the economy to deliver. The Minister of Culture has given a good account of what the Government is dealing with here, and I refer in this context to this. At this crossroads, the Storting should seek to raise its eyes and see what challenges the NRK faces in the future. Then I think we'll see that as important as the money is to have the necessary prerequisites for action and adaptability. With the technological developments we're looking at in the media field, we know that NRK's activities will change. If in ten years' time the NRK is going to play the role of our leading cultural policy tool, yes, then we're talking about a media company that has the power to create new products, which has the power to follow the trends and maintain a prominent market position. This shall be the power of the NRK in new forms of distribution and new technologies of production. New products or new media will require a dramatic increase in programme production, and distribution will take place in a more fragmented and fragmented market. Competitors, of course, are giants in an international media market – heavy groups that every day are pressured by the internal dynamics of private ownership for conversion, creativity and market adaptation. This is a landscape that places enormous demands on a small player, as the NRC in an internationalised market will be. What Norway needs in the future is an NRC that manages to live with that conversion is a continuously positive process that triggers creativity and provides efficient use of resources. The conversion should not be an orc, something you do in new and no when the shot is sinking. If the NRK is to do this, they must have a slender organisation that is easy to handle and that does not have too many complicating bonds attached to it, it is in the form of contract works or public regulations. We need an NRK that's capable of being an engine in creative Norway, a hub in a network that helps mobilize brain power far outside the house's own walls. Competitors in the international market will operate in environments far larger than ours, and competition for who has the best minds — not to say many of the best minds — will be very sensitive. We need an NRK that can meet the needs of an interactive TV market. It means a dramatic increase in software, and that we maintain a good quality. Then we talk about the cost-effectiveness and use of human resources at a very demanding level. I'm not a moment in doubt that the management of the NRK represents the first insight into how to meet these and many other challenges. Then, as politicians and channel owners, we have to exercise our ownership in a way that gives the necessary armstroke to succeed. That means we have to stand upright even when it blows a little bit, and our actions in Stortinget have to show that we have confidence that NRK's management is able to carry out the tasks for the benefit of a Norwegian audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1515	An important case for the Progress Party has been implemented – the liquidation of the NRK monopoly. The increase in radio and television offers has given us greater opportunities to choose. This shows that freedom in the ether can stimulate quality and diversity. The party of progress wants the greatest possible degree of freedom in the ether. We want to impose minimum restrictions on those who want to operate radio and television stations. Where it is physically possible with regard to frequencies, etc., concessions should be given as a mere formality. The NRK was the main theme of the Minister of Culture’s presentation. The view of the Progress Party on the NRK is different from that of the Minister of Culture in most areas. We don't see it as a public task to do media business, and we have as a long-term goal of our work here in Stortinget to sell NRK. We want a competitive situation in radio and television activities where individual actors finance their activities either through advertising and sponsorship, or through subscription and payment television systems. Nor do we want to restrict the advertising sent, in addition to what is regulated by the penal code. It follows from this that the Progress Party considers that it is central to removing the licence fee levied by the NRK. We record that the Minister of Culture's presentation provides for an increase in the licence fee. It's already sky high and we want to strongly warn the Council of State and the Government against thinking in these paths. We find it unreasonable that the Norwegian people should be burdened with the burden of NRK's incompetence and lack of governance over many years. If the NRK is to acquire economic business, this must be done by streamlining its own organisation and staff. The license is already too high - it has to go down, not up! So the party of progress wants to release the radio and television stations from the clumsy grip of politicians. The only governance that politicians should have with the ether media is in the case of crisis situations such as war, terrorist disasters, etc. However, this cannot in itself be the basis for the public and taxpayers to subsidise individual companies in this sector. Crisis preparedness can be well resolved by the signature of contracts giving the governing authorities the right to control broadcasters in the event of a crisis or a war situation. We realize that this is a good time to accept the view of the Progress Party in this matter – we have been led by before, among other things. when we proposed a TV 2 and radios – but it's coming. In this situation, we believe it is right that the NRC leadership, until we have a change in this area, must manage its own activities within the mandate that they have been given by the Stortinget. It is necessary to have the possibility to streamline and restructure its organisation within the framework of the decisions taken in this room on licence fees. However, it must be possible for the licensee to require a minimum of services to be fulfilled to be charged for significant amounts under this coercive charge. This is particularly true for NRK2 – we know that there are some places in the country where this channel is not available. If it is not possible to bring the NRK2 to all licensees, we think it is our task as wholesale politicians to differentiate the licence fee, so that those who do not receive the NRK2 pay less than others. This has been referred to by most politicians here in Stortinget, and the problem has previously been addressed in this Chamber by the Progress Party in a Document No. 8-proposals dealt with during the previous enlargement period. We have also registered that both central party politicians and the Workers' Party have addressed the issue after our Document No. 8 proposals, inter alia: in the Questionnaire. My colleague, Mr Woldseth, in his speech, will elaborate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1536	Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland's statement on the role of NRK as a public broadcaster comes at a time marked by commercialisation and globalisation, and where the term 'convergence' surrounds us. This situation of new market compositions of cross-ownerships or mediaeconglomerates creates major challenges for executives in relation to media policy and regulation. SV has never intended the Storting to enter and manage content – the editorial content or operation as such. What we want, however, is to contribute to the societal debate in order to justify a multi-needed programming area and not just a programme area to be produced according to commercial principles. The NRK sets a standard that the other channels have to take seriously. The NRK has a major competitive advantage precisely because they do not have to take into account the outreach of each programme. The NRK is not required by its owners to have the sole objective of having a high viewing turnout. Therefore, the programming interface can be more varied and the channel can thus have a greater importance and justification in people's consciousness than canals that have a full commercial purpose and often have to think much more short-sightedly in their programming surface. When high viewer resolution becomes important for each application, there are many application types that are out of date in a channel. The NRK on its side can create both Saturday entertainment for high viewer attendance and applications for more particularly interested viewers. The NRK has an important societal mission. The NRK shall provide public information, knowledge dissemination, broad cultural efforts and communicate the Norwegian language. The NRK can't compromise too much here. If the social mission of the NRK fails, the role and eligibility of the NRK as a public broadcaster is undermined. What the real struggle is about for the NRC is those who are going to put out the NRK's contribution in practice, leaving an undefined market to the ground, and us others who are going to further develop the basis for non-commercial public broadcasting. Therefore, it is important to win back the terrain after competition and rating arguments have been given too much space in the NRC. This has taken place at the expense of a discussion of competence, quality, knowledge dissemination, cultural understanding, depression and critical journalism. We're fighting historylessness and 'the rule of convenience', but of course the NRK is not just going to have heavy fact-finding programs. We in SV also want easy and good entertainment programmes, but we do not want them to be at the expense of depression, reflection, public education, democracy and district policy. That being said, it is important for SV that we today get away from a debate that is only about economics, technology and the competitive situation. We need NRK as a cultural institution. We need to lift the NRK as the main content provider for culture, language dissemination and national identity. We must therefore win back the agenda and never tire of defining the role of NRK as a public broadcaster and what that mission involves. It's important that we, as owners, define the core tasks of the NRK on a value basis. The institution must be stopped for the first time. If today's situation continues, licence financing is threatened. Why do people have to pay if they don't get a qualitatively different offer than the other – the commercial – channels can show? Programme production is the core activity of the NRC. It is in width and depth of content that the NRK has to compete. There is a high-quality, comprehensive programme production for all target groups, which shall be the key competitive advantage of the NRK. It must be seen and heard by viewers and listeners that they are inside the NRK. It is on the content of the NRK to compete. Today it is far beyond the soundness of the creative work that is justified by the existence of the NRK. The NRK must be up in production volume and in addition receive funding for new projects and formats. Culture bet costs, and SV will be involved in paying the bill to get a good general programming in society. Market forces as a pre-miss provider are about to rot deep inside the corridors of the NRK at all levels. SV will not help to ejaculate the mandate and remove the basis for the NRK. The erroneous analysis of the competitive situation combined with little or no loyalty to the NRK's specific societal tasks is a very damaging understanding. Therefore, the interference of Storting is not harmful to the board of NRK and NRK. What, on the other hand, will be completely destructive to the NRK in the long term is that the Storting stops going up in the NRK. In recent years, market forces have become too much of a supplier of premiscuous words. Public broadcasting was a matter of course for us throughout the NRK's monopoly period. That time is over, and we must all be willing to change. Time never stands as well-known still. The media supply and use of the media have changed dramatically. In the introduction of commercial channels, we were promised and suggested diversity. In my opinion, we have got simplicity in many channels. As the situation is, I therefore very much appreciate the fact that Minister of Culture Svarstad Haugland has put down a sample to delineate and define the concept of public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1564	Norway has many excellent cultural taboos. But we only have one cultural-political flagship. It's called NRK. I think that in its briefing, the Council of State has developed this in an excellent way and expressed the Government's clear willingness to take responsibility for the ship's passage into new and broken waters. As Norway’s cultural flagship, there are, of course, good reasons for admiring, at least as far as large parts of the NRC’s activities are concerned. And maybe at times we've admired so much that we've been hurt to fool too much with our baby's heart -- yes, to some extent almost civilized, so that in time the child has been spared. I have seen that Professor Jostein Gripsrud, the longtime head of the Danish Broadcasting Council, is concerned with such thoughts in a readable article in Today's Business 2nd March of this year. Gripsrud says, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘Institution’ — i.e. NRKs — ‘A lack of experience in serious political criticism of the programme activity’s profile may, for example, contribute to the feeling of infallibility and arrogance’. As is known, the Scriptures state that the one who is loved must also find himself in being disciplined. And I'd like to ask if it might be right that we, as politicians – both in general and in government – take inwards that we have been too yielding and too understanding when the child has asked for something. Perhaps we haven't strongly enough thought that on the one hand, we have given the NRC great freedom to be independent, while on the other hand, the institution has still had to live a nearly “screen” life and has not had to fully take on the seriousness of the competitive everyday life that others have to live in. Of course, the NRK has also been concerned with the number of listeners and viewers, perhaps even so much that you could be in danger of forgetting both the role you have played, and not least ensuring that the organisation is trimmed. Some of us have some experience with what the last thing can lead to. We have to have in mind that the NRK has a licence income that is above what all the other Norwegian competitors have to travel with. It is positive that the Government expresses a clear willingness to continue to provide the NRC with stable and good economic conditions, which they have also had before. However, in view of the new challenges facing the NRK, among others: transition to digitisation – it is necessary for the Government also to look for other possibilities to strengthen the economic situation. In our opinion, it should be possible to find a system in relation to the charging system. That matter is now within the Financial Committee. With regard to the other two proposals in the Council of State statement, we know that both of them have clear limitations. Firstly, it is not easy to redistribute cultural resources in the current situation. Secondly, we know that an increase in the licence in addition to a price adjustment for several reasons is problematic, distributive and because many still cannot take in the full offer. Although this is not an easy task, I am convinced that the Government, which has not yet concluded, will do what they can to find a solution that will ensure the NRK's framework conditions in the meeting with the new challenges. In the light of what I have already said, I would also like to make it clear that it is the responsibility of the NRK's management to manage its economy and adapt its organisation to the reality of other comparable institutions living under it. Then it should not be underestimated that expectations are also placed on the NRK – from which other public broadcasters are less expensive. It can be done, among other things: the role of cultural policy, involving the dissemination of high-quality culture, and the need to cover the whole country by being physically present in the different regions. The Christian People's Party believes it is primarily the responsibility of the NRK to design its district apparatus. That is why we have not gone high in the discussion on bundling district offices. It's the product that's crucial here as well. Therefore, the NRC should be given the opportunity to demonstrate that the extension in the districts still represents the backbone itself in the institution’s activities. But one thing we cannot accept, and that is unfair treatment. It is not reasonable that Northland, as the only country in the country, should not be equal to the other television regions. This needs to be cleaned up by the NRK as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party joins in the presentation of the Council of State. I have not touched on a number of points here. We will come back to something in connection with the processing of the media message, among other things. the question of transition to digital distribution. Finally, let me touch on a point on which the Christian People's Party is very concerned, namely that it announced work to delineate and define the term 'public broadcasting'. Since I started referring to Jostein Gripsrud's article in Today's Business, I will also end with something from the same article. There is an excellent definition of the concept of ‘public broadcasting’ given in 1994 by the Council of Europe's Fourth Ministerial Conference on Media Policy, which Norway voted for. Point 4 states that public broadcasting is to ‘develop pluralistic, innovative and varied programming, of high ethical and quality standards, and not to allow market forces to lead to a sacrifice of quality’. This needs no further comment from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1598	In its presentation, the Minister of Culture presented a very high level of ambition for the NRC. That's good. The NRK is probably our most important cultural institution. Therefore, the list should be high. However, the Council of State had very little to say about the financial resources needed to reach this level of ambition, and also how funding should be done. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this manufacture is symptomatic of NRK’s problems. There appears to be no correlation between the ambitions of the owner and the expectations of the financial framework made available. The NRK is currently operating in a very demanding landscape, characterised by enormous international competition and continuous technological change. This has to be taken into account. The NRK is, as we all know, mainly licensed. The centre party does not believe that the license increase alone will be able to secure the NRK's economy. There is clearly a limit to what people consider acceptable to pay for what is formally owned by a television set. The NRK shall operate at maximum rationality. This has obviously not always been the case. But there's also a limit here, and we can't force the NRK into ever-new horse cures without it hitting the program offer and weakening the NRK's function as a public broadcaster. Responsibilities and budgetary discipline may be transferred to the irresponsible if he has not defined a proper level of balance with the tasks assigned. From this point of view, the Central Party will ask the Ministry to consider the following four elements, which together may constitute a financial package to ensure consistency between ambitions and the NRC economy: First, zero rate or reimbursement of input VAT for NRK. This proposal by the SV and the Central Party is under consideration in the Financial Committee. The central party hopes that it will be possible to get a majority for one of the two solutions. Such an approach will improve the economic situation of the NRC by an estimated 195 million. kr, and there will be a similarity between the Norwegian competitors of the NRK and the NRK. Secondly, the digitisation of NRK archives should be excluded from the regular budget of the NRK. This work is about taking care of our common cultural heritage, and is therefore a responsibility beyond the NRC. Funding outside the regular budget of the NRC will also enable the necessary progress to be made. Thirdly, while it is necessary to require the passing of the Broadcasting Orchestra, the NRK should be given the opportunity to find out whether there are other institutions with which cooperation can be established. Fourth, the digital groundnet concession must be dealt with as quickly as possible so that analogues can be switched off as early as possible. Let me add that rapid digitisation will also ensure quick access to NRK2 for all in Norway. This is important. It is totally unreasonable and unsustainable that not everyone should have this offer. The centre party does not want to establish any kind of more direct link between the state budget and the NRC with the four points I mentioned. We believe, however, that it is wise to lift some tasks that are not directly related to the core activities of the NRK out of the budget of the NRK. This will create scope for enhanced programme production. As owner, Stortinget cannot be held responsible for the development of the NRK. Public ownership of the NRC is and will be a central cultural policy instrument – perhaps the most important cultural policy instrument we actually have. Unfortunately, cultural policy in Norway is plagued by many great words and little willingness to put the economy behind the words. There will be a significant loss for what we like to mention as the cultural nation of Norway, whether the NRC is not able to be a strong, quality good and forward-looking public broadcaster. The centre party comes back to the question of the district offices in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1626	A Norwegian public broadcaster has to meet a number of challenges. In addition to the important task of protecting and developing Norwegian languages and culture, it is to serve as a public informer in a media era marked by increasing information flows. A media development guided by viewer surveys and storage figures alone will not provide enough space for the diversity needed to develop our culture and to spur increased creativity. It must therefore be a public responsibility to create conditions of development that safeguard diversity, ensure less groups of transmission time and provide space for information that is not short-term useful or profit-oriented. The NRK must give priority to its specific tasks as a public broadcaster. It is not necessarily a goal that the NRK should constantly produce more or spread its activity to ever-new areas. The NRK must primarily focus on quality and concentrate on its core activities, i.e.: ensuring quality and diversity. The NRK must be given the necessary freedom to organise its own operations. The authorities will provide overall principles and leadership for the general programming tasks, while the NRC must be up to the NRC how they will organise activities within these objectives. Norway still needs public broadcasting with a high level of government funding. However, today’s licence funding is faced with a number of problems, both when technology makes it possible to watch TV programmes without a TV set, and when collecting and managing the licence, with associated control functions. It is also a challenge that today's TV license is equal, regardless of income and size of the household. A lone person with low income pays as much as a large family with high household income. It is therefore appropriate to consider whether the licence can be organised differently. For example, it should be considered whether the NRK can be financed directly from the State budget. It should also be assessed whether continued licensing or other funding can be paid into a separate general programming fund, where most would naturally fall under the scope of the NRC, but where it must also be possible for others to apply for funds for productions that could be defined as general programming purposes. Similarly, the NRK must be able to allow for other types of funding for major events, as is currently the case. Local shipments throughout the country are important and necessary. But it's not necessarily given that this is a responsibility that should only fall to the NRK. Any general programming fund, as outlined, should also be able to define local public programming tasks for the different districts. These tasks may then be put up for tender in the local environment, where the consignments are to be produced. Digital TV allows new services for the population and provides a more efficient distribution of TV signals. A bet on digital TV is necessary. The main balance will lie in how the digital signals are to be transported to the user. The left is initially critical to the proposed NRK and TV 2 digital ground net. The left is not against granting a concession for the development of such a ground network, but is very sceptical about the state funding of such a ground network. Developing a digital TV network as desired by Telenor and the two TV companies seems to be a very expensive way of providing a nationwide digital service. The proposed ground net also appears to provide limited capacity with a few channels. The left is therefore pleased that it has not been concluded with regard to the choice of technology and that, in parallel with the consultation, alternative forms of distribution will be explored. The left will point out that there is already a diversity of methods that are or will become relevant for the distribution of digital TV signals. This applies, inter alia, to: cable TV and satellite TV, telecommunications, electricity and broadband. The investigation should therefore address these and other possible forms of distribution. It is also necessary to examine how public authorities can impose requirements on the provision of public broadcasting services in digital infrastructure. The population must have the right to watch NRK and TV 2 as NRK and TV 2 themselves will appear. A local intermediary shall not have the right to edit any part of the programme offer and the requirement for national coverage must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1654	No one disagrees that the NRK is Norway's leading cultural and media policy enterprise and the leader in the Norwegian media industry. In a digital media reality marked by globalisation and commercialisation, I believe that a publicly funded public broadcasting company is more important than ever before. Since 1933, the NRK has been the largest cultural intermediary, but different competitors have appeared around every corner from both home and abroad. The media world's diversity is high, and therefore the content requirements are also increasing. At the same time as most of the country's citizens can take programmes from all over the world in their living room, the demand for local news is also growing. In its statement of 28 February this year, the Council of State uses only two and a half lines in the report of NRK district missions. Despite just two to three lines, I'm glad that she says it's necessary that the NRK maintain a good regional offer throughout the country. Once the Council of State itself has concluded with the necessity of the district shipments, I hope she will follow closely the development of the NRK and the board believes that the district shipments should take place. The NRK has started an effort to merge offices and restructure the district operations that seem to me to be debasing on the offer in the districts. Then it's not a good idea to just say that the NRK should keep up a good regional offer. Then the council must listen to the people and do something. With an independent AS structure, I know it's difficult to manage the company, but the council is, after all, a general assembly. And where does the limit go when the Council of State will intervene and tell the board of directors that the restructuring must be to political treatment before the NRC goes on, as the Stortinget has said? I feel a certain defensive attitude toward state ownership, and the presentation didn't give me many visions of what the Council of State wants with our public broadcaster in the future. I think it is absolutely necessary to set specific conditions for the tasks the NRK should have, when, if not for too long, we enter into a complete digital television world. I am still getting enquiries from people in the districts who unfortunately cannot take in the NRK2. In my county, Northland, it's just about 80 pst. Taking in NRK2. This knew Stortinget when it was adopted. Basically, as politicians, we're not going to interfere in the editorial content. The NRK2 should, on the assumption, be a relief channel. It has now become more and more independent and has taken over the films – the Monday films – and several children’s programmes, while the NRK1 does not have a film offer. Is it nice that people respond? It is amazing that the freedom of the NRK can be used to verify the assumptions of this room. I expect, if the digitisation that the Council of State has explained is realized, that the NRK2 can be taken over the whole country. In 1997, the licence was increased when the Stortinget decided that district television broadcasts should be extended to Eastfold and Northland, in addition to the nine offices that already had their 15-minute broadcasts at that time. Since then, the consignments have been extended to include 20 plus 5 minutes. After five years and strong pressure from Stortinget, the NRK has finally planned to release Østfold and Nordland with independent shipments. In that case, the maritime council has the right of independent AS. Eastfold gets his intended 20 plus 5 minutes, while Northland, who both has poor coverage of NRK2 and has paid extra license, and who has believed in the Stortings' promise of being able to get their legitimate 20 plus 5 minutes in line with the other local TV broadcasts, experiences being eaten by just 5 minutes before 21 four evenings a week. I expect a government council from the Christian People's Party to keep its promises and to see the injustice of this, and to help the NRK quickly extend the time spent in Northern Ireland to the same level as the other district offices. I am very pleased that the representative Ola T. Loans from the Christian People's Party raised the same issue. When it comes to the difficult economy of the NRK, I don't want to blame. What matters now is that government and big business, together with the NRK, are finding solutions that help us maintain the world-famous public broadcaster as far as possible through licence funding and without advertising, while ensuring anchoring through a wide range of districts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1683	All other parties are awarding NRK in the clouds – and perhaps rightly so. But what other television and radio stations have been financed by placing an additional tax on the owners of a television set? - No one! But that's not what I was going to talk about. I was going to talk about a license. As the president is probably familiar with, my home town, Bergen, is a beautiful city, surrounded by seven mountains, seven mountains that make the city what it is, but which unfortunately also results in very many people not getting the NRK2 and a number of the radio channels. In Norway’s second largest city, not everyone gets NRK2, and you can imagine how things stand in the rest of the country. The last number I heard was that at least 260 000 licensees and their families do not have the opportunity to receive an offer that they are paying for. And when the Minister of Culture, as one of his alternatives to improving the economy of the NRK, considers increasing the license, increasing the coercive tax, this is simply becoming unfair. I hardly think that neither the Minister of Culture nor the Director of the NRK would have agreed to buy a car at full price if all the wheels were missing. And that's what this is about. 260 000 licensors pay for a product they do not receive. I can only imagine the frustration as the Minister of Culture sat in Salt Lake City watching the Olympic Games and getting what she wanted, and moving the sports broadcasts from NRK1 to NRK2 in favor of children's TV at home, and 260,000 licensees lost their calls in one of the sports. This is simply unfair and discouraging. It is no wonder that people who do not receive a full offer refuse to pay a license. This is, in fact, a discrimination, yes, even discrimination against the licensee who live in the districts of the country that do not have the possibility of receiving the NRK2. And so, not even everyone in Norway's second largest city has this possibility. It is possible for licensees who do not receive NRK2 to buy parabolics, but this, in the truth, becomes an additional cost for those who do not receive the same signals by other means. This discrimination between Norwegian citizens should now be brought to an end, and in particular with a view to a new NRC initiative that will lead to additional tax increases in the introduction of digital TV. It becomes a paradox for me when we hear the Central Party talk about it being unreasonable and unsustainable, and when we hear the Workers' Party say they don't like this discrimination. But none of them are willing to support the proposal that I will now promote, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting so that the NRK’s licence fee is differentiated according to the possibility for the recipient to receive NRK1 and NRK2 over the ordinary transmission network.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1705	The representative Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she just referred to. The President may confirm that he is aware of the presence of the representative in Bergen. For its part, the President has never considered it a handicap.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1710	We are also debating a Document No today. Eight proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, which read: ‘The Government asks the Government in an appropriate manner to report to the Government on the future of the NRK’, etc. This proposal was made because the proposers noted that the NRC was facing cuts and changes in the district structure. It was found right by the proposers that this was presented to the Stortinget, so that the NRC did not implement significant changes in the district structure and the closure and merger of district offices without the Stortinget’s treatment. The proposal was promoted because the majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, in the Budget-inner. S. No 2 for 2000–2001 stated that ‘if the Governing Council of the NRC were to make proposals that would lead to major changes in the regional policy profile, the matter would require political consideration’. An overall committee expressed in the same budgetary position: ‘It is also important that the NRK’s district office is able to act as independent entities in an emergency situation.’; We note that structural changes have been made in several district offices during the year 2001-2002. The changes have been so significant that they have had consequences for NRK as a public broadcaster, and they should have been dealt with in the Stortinget. The NRK is organized as an AS, but obviously has a special ownership structure. NRK is not a private store, but a central cultural institution. The ownership is exercised through the General Assembly of the Minister of Culture and of the Stortinget. In the rest of the world, it is an ideal for owners to be active and to premise on the operation of the business. SV will actively contribute to the NRK board receiving clear signals from the owners for its activities. The Minister of Culture refers to NRK's status as a limited liability company when she tastes us a little over our hands and says we should keep our hands on the programme tray. It is not possible to discuss the NRK in a reasonable or important way without taking into account the content of the programme. But here it is important to distinguish between the editorial content of each programme on the one hand and the programme offer and the programme profile on the other. SV has never intended to be an over-editor in the NRK, but we will never stop participating in the discussion about the program offer. That's the main pillar of the NRK's public broadcasting mission. We therefore also disagree with the question of the closure of district offices, although it is tempting to add that both the Minister of Culture and I recently belonged to the majority of the population who thought that the closure of district offices is not an internal operational matter, but a significant structural issue that the Stortinget would have presented itself. It is not easy to believe that the NRK will create as much and as well district television with fewer and fewer district offices. It is not easy to believe that we will get more stuff from the districts of Dagsrevyen with fewer district offices. The reality is brutal. When you cut out a program at NRK, it's often not replaced. What's being cut out is what's not elsewhere, and it's going to be gone forever. Many popular applications in the NRK have been lost in this way. I'm afraid that new generations will not get insight into our cultural heritage. The NRK has an important societal mission. The NRK shall provide public information and knowledge dissemination, have a broad cultural effort and communicate the Norwegian language. The NRK can't compromise too much here. It is not useful to operate within a framework of cyclical public information. If the NRK's societal mission fails, the role and eligibility of the NRK as a public broadcaster is undermined. Therefore, the interference of Storting is not harmful to the board of NRK and NRK. What, on the other hand, will be completely destructive in the long term for the NRK is if the Storting stops going away in what the NRK is doing. In recent years, market forces have become too much of a supplier of premises, including in the word change. SV wants to take NRK seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07.ana.ud1621e1737	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over, and negotiations will now be suspended and resumed at the evening meeting at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
