ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e88	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Raymond Robertsen, Olav Akselsen, Haakon Blankenborg, Bent Höie, Jorunn Ringstad, Synnøve Konglevoll, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Elsa Skarbøvik, Per Erik Monsen, Martin Engeset and Carsten Dybevig, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative of Bjørg Tørresdal applied for welfare leave on 29 and 30 April. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Silver Sivertsen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Bjørg Tørresdal, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The second alternate of the Rogaland County, Kari Austerheim Silde, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e153	Kari Austerheim Silde is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e159	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Monday and Tuesday – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e164	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e169	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings on Monday and Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e187	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e203	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to 5 lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e214	%s aka Statskog, which we are discussing today, is primarily about the possibility of strengthening the nutrient base for single use around our country. I'm glad there's a clear plurality in the committee and here in the storeroom for this. I am also pleased that both the minority and the majority in the Committee are open to the sale of smaller forest eggs, although we have formulated something different when it comes to other aspects of the proposal. The Christian People's Party has a balanced view of the state's role as forest owners, administrators, landowners and service agencies. In any case, the State should continue to have large areas, especially in the large areas which are high and which are important for general access to hunting, fishing and a rich outdoor life. Otherwise, the law on outdoors generally applies to both private and public property. That's not what we have up to today. We're talking about a very small percentage of the area of Statskog SF. Thus, it is not really about the future of Statskog SF, or about the jobs in Statskog. My commitment to the cause has a background in several circumstances: local farmers and organizations have asked me for help, both in my vocabulary and as a representative here on the Stortinget, to buy smaller forest doughs that have previously been sold away from the garden, often because of pure nakedness. 80–100 years ago, many areas were sold from the garages because of financial problems, may be caused by grandfather or grandfather, and sometimes want to buy back these areas from Statskog. Here the resistance has been great, and here, Statskog, as I see it, must be more liberal. It has been, in part, very difficult to get a meaningful and equivalent dialogue with Statskog on these issues. In other parts of the country, there is barley cultivation, where small people set up as tenants and wanted to buy the garden, with the garden forest, from the state. In Rana, Northern Ireland, for example, purchased the State of the 1880s privately owned land from the owner of the goods Coldevin, and the Stortinget’s authority to approve this purchase was that the rents on the goods were to be purchased for their garages. The result for many of the uses was that only the fields and a small part of the forest were sold to the tenants, while a large part of the garden forest was held back on the state hand and is still part of the State Forest. The result was that the nutritional basis for these uses was substantially reduced, and I believe that all batches in the room can conclude that such ugly mistakes should be corrected. It is a good principle that the management of resources should be done as locally as possible, in the case of these people, and that knows how the shoe prints. The current system is for two, sometimes three, different bodies to manage the same area – mountain government, general government and state forest. Here, there are opportunities for counter-interests and conflicts, often years-long and exhausting, and often with legal involvement. I am pleased that the entire committee wants to go through the possibilities of simplifying and coordinating this management. The majority have asked the ministry to consider different ways of solving this, for example:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t by allowing a general government to be run as a general building by bringing together the mountain government and the general government of one body, or by selling individual generals to those who have rights of use; In any case, today's rights of use for hunting and fishing will be fixed as a staple, and will continue as today. These are rights that the general public has and that it is not supposed to rock. In the hearing, it appeared that VAT rules discriminate against the sale of hunting and fishing rights on a private basis. The sale of fishing licenses and hunting licenses for wild game and small game on the purchased state base is exempt from VAT. The majority in the Committee have suggested that the Government will take a closer look at this issue. The minority in the Committee is concerned that a certain hall in the State Forest will prevent access to hunting and fishing. The Christian People's Party agrees that such access is important, but we cannot see that the effect of a smaller downsal of the purchased state base, which is what the government party enters into its comments, will have a particularly strong impact on this. Here we have to remember that most people will rent out the same area, and today we have a good balance between renting out hunting rights from the public through Statskog and the many private landlords who rent out to hunters and fishermen on their private grounds. The Labour Party and SV state that land should be owned by the State for the purpose of value creation. This I think is hard to understand, and I can't see that this argument has a particular weight. In my opinion, it is a greater advantage that whoever uses the forest, also owns it, shoots it and manages it, so that the forest can become in ever better condition. As a representative of the Christian People's Party, I believe that it is an advantage that these forest plots come back to local hands, and that those who have ownership interest will also be given the responsibility for usage and management. So there's going to be a more inspiring situation. I also note that the recruitment of forest professionals is difficult today and that the applicants for this training are few. I hope that a certain downsal of the state's ownership can participate in and revitalise the forest environment and make it more interesting to take such a vocational education as landowners get more management rights and ownership rights over larger areas. Corridor protection is important, and Norway must do its part to protect the biodiversity of the earth. So I understand that the hall has to wait in some areas, and so we don't want to set a specific deadline, as the proposal from Hedstrøm and Solholm goes on. In particular, it is important to use State Forest's land in any crop rotation scheme for the protection of the coniferous forests, which the entire Committee has agreed may be anti-conflict and to the great benefit of the protection of its forest area. At the same time, I have to say that it should be possible to resolve individual matters, especially when it comes to backsals for original gardening, or building use, as I have been told. There is no reason to spend more years here if it is clear that it is not appropriate to use the cadastral parcel in question. I would also like to mention the work of the Collective Committee. It is right to wait for the hall in Sámi's core area, as in the inner parts of Nord-Troms and in the Lulesamian area of Tysfjord. Sal in Finnmark is completely out of date before the new Finnmarks Act on land in Finnmark is dealt with in Stortinget. But when there is a debt of purchased state land, and where there is only talk of grazing rights for pure, there cannot be an absolute stop to the hall pending a settlement that can take very many years. However, in such cases, the right to gratify for pure and any other samonic customary use must of course lie as a staple to the property, so that Sami rights of use do not suffer harm. The proposal by the majority in the Committee is therefore that the text of the meeting book be annexed. At the same time, we expect the Minister of Agriculture not to come back to the Storting with a briefing on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e266	As Document No 8:71, about the sale of state holdings in Statskog SF, was promoted by Øystein Hedstrøm and Lodve Solholm, we from the Workers' Party were excited about what the Government's view would be on the proposal. In our opinion, the answer from Minister of Agriculture Sponheim was a very correct one. In this way we were very satisfied and thought well that the majority here in the Grand Duchy would clearly end up with the views of the Minister of Agriculture and the Government. Unfortunately, the comments of the majority are not as clear as the response of the Government. Here are comments that, in our opinion, create uncertainty for both the company and its employees. When Statskog was formed in 1992, the following purposes were adopted for the company: ‘The objective of the SF is to manage, operate and develop State forest and mountain areas with associated resources and other natural adjoining activities, either through participation or in cooperation with others. The assets shall be operated effectively with a view to achieving a satisfactory economic result. Active nature protection shall be provided and open-air life taken into account. The resources shall be used in a balanced manner and renewable resources shall be retained and further developed.’;» There should be no doubt that this should stand firm. The reason why I mention this is that in the majority position it is said that it is particularly relevant to sell the area that was originally sold because the owner was economically forced to do so. In view of the objective of the State Forest SF of economic performance, this will mean that those who originally had the forest, long before State Forest was a reality, will have to buy at market prices. That's one side of it. The second is whether it is possible to prioritize local owners. As the majority's comment is formulated, it is the original farm to be strengthened. Moral sounds good, but is there realism in it without going into a process that becomes very unpredictable to the company? It becomes strange to me if the Storting should aim to clean up the injustice that has occurred over 100 years ago. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left agrees with the majority that having State Forest SF as a third party to the problem of coniferous forest protection is good. When so much has not been done in this area so far, it is due to the fact that in most cases agreement is reached with the basic owner of coniferous forest protection. Where it has been relevant to change the area of the forest from Statskog SF, landowners have accepted no, as the areas from Statskog are not accepted. And one way to think about it is that some of the areas don't seem to be equal to the swap. It has been, as far as I know, because in some cases it is young forest that has been offered. Nevertheless, it is important in future issues of coniferous protection that we have this possibility. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left believe that Statskog SF has a very important role for everyone in terms of public access to hunting and fishing. State forest has 110 rental cabins, they sell 15,600 cards for small game hunting and almost the same number of fishing licenses. This is a major and important part of Statskog SF. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party consider the company to be and should be the guarantor of public access to such activities. In a time when we're not just going to discuss what we're going to live off, but also for, hunting and fishing will be good recreational activities that more and more people will appreciate in a stressful everyday life. The need gets bigger over the years, not less. State forest SF facilitates hunting and fishing and at prices that ensure public access. Therefore, the company is the guarantor. We must not privatize Norwegian natural resources. They shall have access to the public. Competence is another keyword. It is not least available to those employed in forestry. When Statskog SF was founded in 1992, there were more than 500 employees in the company. Today it's under 200. In my opinion, it is not desirable to create uncertainties around these workplaces. Employees have an important forest competence that should be maintained and further developed. SB Skog operates the forests of Stadskog and Borregaard from Trundellag and southwards. In addition, they undertake forestry for private forest owners. This activity has grown sharply, so that SB Forest has seen approximately one in a row. half of its activities for private forest owners. This shows that private forest owners also benefit from this competence. It also means that some private forest owners find it most profitable, because there are more in this business. Not only is it important to have competence in the harvesting of forests, but also in other forestry areas competence is an important part of economic performance. Hedmark Arbeiderpartei and Nord-Trøndelag Arbeiderpartei are very involved in this matter, because it is an important district policy issue. Both have clear annual decisions that one should not privatise Statskog SF. In their view, it will tear away the foundation for SB Forest in the form and function it has today. There will be indirect consequences for about 113 employees and direct consequences for at least 50 employees working on Statskog's land. The sale of Statskog can mean the fury of jobs in the districts, so strongly says Hedmark Arbeiderparti. When the majority say that it is desirable for local people to make use of local natural resources in such a way as to create growth and employment in the local environment, there is no guarantee that this will happen. Here the majority believe privatisation because it is desirable to sell it to landowners. Again, the question is how to implement it when the market price should be the object of the company. Well, those who want it must get the purchase, as long as the conditions for living and operating obligations are met. When asked by the majority, the Government assesses attempts so that state public opinion can be operated as a building public opinion, it also leads to uncertainty. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party say in their comments that we wish that the Council of State letter of 20 March was the basis for the development of the State Forest SF. In our opinion, it would provide safe and predictable framework conditions for the company. In this way it must be nice that there are at least two parties here on Stortinget – Arbeiderpartiet und SV – who fully support the Council of State in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e311	State forest is the country's largest landowner and the country's largest forest owner. The properties comprise one third of the area of Norway. From an ideological point of view, I see no reason why the state should manage as large forest resources as it does today. It is another time for the state to be the largest owner of the land. It is also another time and can be called an anachronism that large parts are operated with minimal influence by the community and in competition with private interests. It is also timely in this field to ask whether it is a State task to engage in business that can equally be carried out by others. The government has just promoted a notification of state ownership, whereby the country's various holdings in the companies are reviewed to see if current ownership is the best, the optimal arrangement. For the purposes of this Document, The 8 proposal, promoted by the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee, we have looked at the management of the state's forest resources. I'm glad to see that the Progress Party here shows that they see a great disadvantage in state ownership. It is important in matters of state ownership, to assess whether administration can be more efficient, and whether it can be better done for the Norwegian people. We support the Government in looking at State Forest as an instrument to protect larger coniferous forests. Forest geysers who have had to dispose of coniferous areas for protection today feel that a makeshift institute has not worked well enough. That the department looks at how it can be improved, we think is very positive. I have also noticed that many of the smaller parcels that State Forest currently owns in different parts of the country are areas that in their time were bought by the state from landowners because, as it says, ‘pure economical naud’. I believe that such areas are particularly important that the current use is given the opportunity to buy back. It is important that we put in place measures to strengthen the nutritional basis for farmers and forest owners. The sale of Landskog's productive forest land is such a measure. I heard that the representative Gaundal in his contribution used the term ‘privatisation’ of State Forest. I see that as a mistake, because what we're talking about here is that by selling back to private owners we're going to be able to get more robust farms in District Norway. That the Workers' Party either doesn't see this point, or doesn't take it into account, I think to a large extent denotes the commitment of the Workers' Party to District Norway. I have strong faith in the community. I believe that those who depend on a resource are also best able to manage that resource. For this reason, I believe it is important that the general government should be managed as much as possible locally – in the local general government and the mountain government. Today, for example. the mountain governments that manage small game hunting, wild fauna and fishing, while it is the State that manages the big game hunting. I believe that there are good reasons to see whether mountain governments can also manage the big game hunt. That is why we ask the Department to look specifically at that side of the case. There is another unfortunate difference in treatment we see in the fact that State forest is exempt from VAT on the sale of fishing licenses and hunting licenses for small game and the like for wild reindeer hunting, while private landowners do not have the exemption. We cannot accept that private conditions are getting worse than the state has, and we therefore ask the Government to look at this effect of the VAT system. I am a little provoked when it is claimed that a sale of the forest properties of Statskog will mean that less access to open-air areas is available. There is reason to stress that the right to free movement is legally guaranteed here in the country, completely independent of ownership. Building generals have been tested in some parts of the country. It is a form of ownership that ensures local governance, and it ensures that the return becomes uncircumcisionary in the community. Today, a large part of the dividends are drawn into the state companies and further into the state treasury, and then, for various good purposes, it will certainly be relocated. What it creates is, of course, bureaucracy and employment, but it creates no efficiency. For this reason, the point in the majority remarks that we are asking the Ministry to consider the use of the building public to a greater extent is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e330	It's an anachronism in our democratic society that the state is the country's largest landowner and forest owner. It is also an anachronism that most of the land is operated without local transparency, with minimal local influence and in competition with private interests. In this field, too, it is timely to ask whether it is a State task to engage in business that can equally be carried out by others. The background to the proposals for sales made by the Progress Party is inter alia: that we will strengthen the community, which will have a greater share of the returns and achieve significant ring-effects. In particular, Statskog’s productive forest properties are of great importance, but also in rural resources there is a significant potential for industrial development in the districts. This can help to ensure the settlement. A distribution of the country's land can contribute to the creation of larger and more robust units, which in turn have capacity and willingness to develop resources in the best possible way. In the future, we will probably meet tougher economic conditions in agriculture and forestry, which will make everyday life more difficult for many farmers and forest owners. It must therefore be in the interest of State authorities to pursue policies that contribute to ensuring the livelihoods of rural areas and to facilitating growth. Forestry, rental of cabins, sale of fishing permits, rental of hunting rights, experience and exploitation of sand, rock and gravel will, as the Progress Party sees it, be important business areas that can contribute to increased growth in many communities. There may be several current models to carry out a sale of State Forest under public control. We believe that, in the first place, selected parts of State Forest's productive forest areas should be offered for sale to the maximum bidder. This solution could help local private landowners, such as farmers and forest owners, to get on the track and to attract strategic properties in relation to their existing properties. The area should be sold in parcels of such size as to allow local landowners to participate in the bidding process. I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who has done a considerable amount of work and has gone through many issues related to the proposal. Although the Progress Party has not fully realised the pace and scope of sales, it is a majority that signals to the districts that a move towards more local governance and returns is soon underway and that support is given to a certain roundabout sale after careful consideration of forest protection. It also allows for the sale of individual parcels which are not to be protected. Furthermore, it is relevant to the resale of some parcels that Stadskog owns in parts of the country, which have been sold out of the farm due to economic need. The sale of productive forest land is also positive, although it is emphasised that it is most relevant for smaller and scattered properties, and that any sales from larger and total land in which State Forest operates need to be further assessed. The proposal also focuses on adverse distortions of competition, as private areas are subject to VAT on hunting and fishing. The government is required to look at the effect of the added value system. The government shall also look at the possibilities for individual state-wide and productive forest surveys to be sold to those who have rights of use in the general public. The Government shall also come back with an assessment of whether attempts should be made to solve the tasks of the Mountain Board and the General Board by a common body and what legislative changes may be relevant. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to make some additional points of view. A recent evaluation report on forest protection was presented in Norway. The report estimates future protection needs of 4.5 pst., against today's 1 pst. This suggests that this process is far from complete and is likely to continue for a long time in the future. If Statskog's land is to be included in this context, we will risk not having any significant sales in the foreseeable future. It is appropriate to refer the Committee to the consultation notes of forest owners’ organisations, which show that the forest areas of State forest do not contain to a large extent protective values which make them attractive as protected areas. Makeshift is a better solution, but in such a process it is important that one can offer attractive areas with a favourable location for the owner. State forest areas are not necessarily such. We therefore believe that when the land of State Forest is not of such a nature that the criteria for the protection of the coniferous forests are met, they should be put out for sale and the income used for the purchase of land for the make-shift. The Party also considers it important to set a clear level of ambition and a deadline for the assessment of the properties and for the implementation of a sale. Such sales should cover more than a roundabout sale. It is important that areas of significant size which have a real impact on purchasers and districts are also allocated. Selling small and unattractive properties gives a signal that this is a rationalisation measure from Statskog, with the sale of areas of low value. It will be a very negative signal to the districts, which need a vitamin injection in relation to the development they are now in. There will also be a wrong signal for many industries and businesses in the districts due to the ringing effects. Because there is no doubt that private landowners are able to manage larger and total land at least as well as State Forest. By adding larger areas to already private areas, one could in addition activate private areas that have been too small in the past to have any bearing on nutrition. There will also be an important signal to the districts by doing something that has real significance in strengthening the local nutrient base. I would like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e351	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e354	When I was a little boy, I was happy to fish. And what you sometimes experienced when you were fishing was that you were chased away because there were people who owned the area. So you had nowhere to fish, sail if you were just eight or ten years old. I have also experienced being chased away from the berry forest because you were in a place some owned, and where those who did not own, did not have the right to be. Now I have grown a little bigger, but still it is in large parts of Norway that there are some areas, especially for those who are happy to hunt, but also in fishing, where this is not allowed, if you don't have a lot of money. We see that a number of areas today are being added to so-called exclusive hunting and exclusive rentals. And then we can also get exclusive fishing. That means that many of us who live in District Norway, who live there because we want to share in the good things that outdoor life is, are kept away because the money book doesn't go to. Do you want to keep going like that? That is what is at the heart of this matter. Are we going to have some areas in Norway that are the same for King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker, all of whom are equal and for reasonable money can hunt, fish, hire cabins and enjoy the goods? The danger that the majority is now putting us in is to remove the small, small lungs and the similarity of the Norwegian people to use these natural resources. I think the majority are playing with something that they may not really be aware of the consequences. Therefore, SV strongly warns against the Government doing as requested by the majority to initiate a process that, in the next round, will lead to the sale of the country’s properties. It's not the forest that's the big challenge here, but it's the right to use the good that our nature gives us. Another important reason why we are critical of the sale of State Forest and to start working on it, is to do this with coniferous protection. We know that today we have protected some coniferous forests. We need to protect much more, and in that work, Statskog will have a very important role, both in the protection of its own coniferous areas, but also in the protection of masculinity. I fully understand that some private forest owners are frustrated when they have to protect forests that they intend to use in connection with incomes on the farm or on the property. In this way, State Forest can play an important role in avoiding or mitigating that type of conflict, both by taking part in the protection of the coniferous forest and also by making changes. I don't think State Forest has been capable and good enough for the districts in every context. Under previous state forest regimes, I believe that centralisation and job reduction have gone far too far. I record that today, Statskog has come into a much better course, where one takes more account of the fact that there are more decentralised jobs, taking into account the municipalities that have properties that State Forest manages. I think it is very important that the employees of State Forest today, the so-called forest workers, are living as far as possible in the areas where the forest is located. But we know that there are still new types of challenges for these forest workers. The traditional timber keeper is gradually on the way out, but there are other important tasks in both environmental and resource management for which these workers can be used, and then it is important that they are in the forested areas. I am surprised that the majority, consisting of, among other things, the government parties, are so very little responsive to the letter from the government council. Both the Workers' Party and SV were very pleased with the letter that State Council Sponheim wrote back to the Committee, and I am very excited to hear, when the Council of State will later make its statement today, how he experiences the gap between the Council of State and the majority of the Committee. I'll attend that article. In the end, the important thing in this case, which you have to focus on, is whether we're going to have some areas in this country that are the same for everyone, whether you have a lot or little money. That is what the debate is about. And we don't have to be fooled into saying that it's important that we get some things back to private, because we don't know what happens to those properties next round. We know, for example. that in North Norway, mole animals are entering. We know that there is fish water in Norway that you don't want other people to fish in, because you want to fish there. You don't even sell a fishing license. We know that there are hunting areas in this country that are only rented out, if they are rented out, to those who have a lot of money and pay tens of thousands of dollars for the hunt. We can't have it like that in the whole country. We need some lungs that are equal to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e375	It is important that we take a realistic and sensible view of what is being dealt with here today in the Chamber. When you hear articles from the Workers' Party and SV in particular, you should almost think that we were in danger of privatising the entire State Forest, as the Workers' Party's representative expressed it. We have to be aware that regardless of the outcome of treatment here today, 95 pst. of the areas of State Forest remain State Forest. There are selected parts of the last 5 pst. we discuss whether it should be possible to sell to local owners. I think it's important that you have those numbers in the back of your head, so that at least you have a certain opportunity to cut through some of the considerations that have come up about what this could mean for a possible privatisation of State Forest. It's not about any privatisation of State Forest. It's not a matter of putting State Forest down in any way. We need State Forest in the future to manage very large areas of land, mountains and forests in Norway. What we're talking about is part of the 5 pst. which is a productive forest and the question of ownership of it. I think what has been said in the vote by the majority, of which the Central Party is part, is important. It must be possible to look at the sale of selected parts of the productive land, in particular those sold from farm use at the beginning of the century, which are often situated as an ‘island’ of state land in the middle of different private properties. They should be able to be resold in order to strengthen the nutritional basis of the original use. I also believe that for some other area related to productive forest, it may be important to strengthen the nutrient base of farmers and forest owners in different parts of the country that are currently under severe economic pressure and that need to create more robust farms. So there are alternatives to making agricultural units bigger. The option is to consider whether it is possible for the country to contribute in the form of either a resale or a sale of the area that can help to strengthen the nutritional basis in total. We're facing an industry that's under pressure from multiple sides. It is under pressure from an agricultural policy that is far too defensive and where there is no will on the part of society to deal with what is needed for them to get a decent income back for the work being done. They are under pressure from a protection policy that increasingly binds up areas and thus makes it impossible to use for food purposes. And they're under the pressure of a predatory game policy that actually means that a good number of areas can no longer be used as a business area in the same way as before. Just because they're pressed from all sides, the issue we're dealing with today, and the question of selling out specific parts of the areas of State Forest, could serve as a positive signal to those who work in agriculture and forestry. There are two things in particular that I want the Department to take note of in relation to the position of the majority, and I would ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to. One is a relationship related to delimitation in relation to the position of the Joint Committee, and the other is the question of the position of the general government. With regard to the areas affected by the suspension of the Joint Committee, the majority initially demarcated these areas in relation to what is currently said for sale. However, I think it should be possible to look at the possibility of selling entirely specific areas close to the farm forest or as neighbouring areas for private forest, also for those areas that can be located in North Norway and in Middle Norway. We've got input from individual areas. This applies, inter alia, to: that farmland which was retained by the State when the barley was sold out should be able to be sold back. It's an opinion I share, and I hope that the Government and the Department will take them into their further assessment. In particular, it is a moment when there is a lack of nutrition in, inter alia, areas. Nordland and Nord-Trøndelag. I also think it is important to carry out a further assessment of the position of the public authorities. The general government that is managed as a general building should also be looked at in a special way. It is usually possible to prioritise local users. Obviously, it is not what is being proposed today, any sale to larger institutions or businesses. It's sales to the local landowners, and it's perhaps the strongest leader in the majority's position, and the Center Party is very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e392	Today, the Storting deals with the position of the Business Committee, Innst. S. No 150 for the sale of ownership interests and properties belonging to State Forest SF. The approach is based on the proposal in Document No. 8:71, promoted by the representatives Hedstrøm and Solholm. In the position of the Business Committee, a number of recommendations are made to the Government on what should be considered in relation to the properties of Statskog in the years to come, including: the use of State Forest land in the context of the protection of the forests, the sale of properties to strengthen the land use base, the sale of general government land to the beneficiaries and changes in the administrative arrangements for the general government. In my letter to the Committee, I have presented several aspects relating to this complex of matters. Firstly, there are many reasons why the country should still be the owner of the land owned by the country today. State ownership can be a way of ensuring efficient use of resources for the benefit of society and the population. It also provides the country with the opportunity to ensure the public's needs for recreation, outdoor life, hunting and fishing. When the country owns land, it provides authorities with a better opportunity to achieve different land management, protection and resource use policy objectives. Developments show that there is a need for a wide range of opportunities for hunting, fishing, outdoors and recreation for the population. Statskog SF has contributed positively to the further development of this offer and, in my opinion, will be central to the further work to continue ensuring the population a variety of offers. In relation to coniferous protection, I have pointed out to the Committee that the country's areas can be used for protection purposes. Furthermore, land in the country may be used for makeshift purposes, so that private forest owners who are given their land are protected with replacement areas. Once these considerations are taken care of, I also consider it an opportunity to sell land to farmers who can thereby strengthen their land base. However, I have taken note of the Committee's view that the sale of individual parcels which will not be protected or which will not play a role in a makeshift settlement can be considered in parallel with the protection of the coniferous forest. I have also noticed that in connection with such roundabout sales, it is appropriate to show the country's freedom of action in relation to farms that in the past have had to dispose of land of no avail, or which for various reasons have purchased a reduced share of a former building. I have also noticed that there seems to be a good deal of agreement between the Government and the Committee on the use of state areas related to coniferous protection. However, in the case of several of the categories of land in which it is owned, I believe that there is reason to exercise great caution in relation to sales or changes in the management arrangements. The property of the State is subject to different laws and administrative arrangements and there are a number of interests to be safeguarded by the various administrative bodies. A significant feature of the country’s properties is also that large parts of them are subject to assessment by the Joint Committee. This is particularly the case in North Norway, but the general government of the Trondelags and Hedmark counties are also affected. In South Norway, in addition to the general government, State Forest also manages purchased forest properties, and it is essentially on these properties that State Forest operates a commercial forestry. We're talking about approx. 4000 square kilometers, and in my opinion, this is what we're going to find the most relevant areas for makeshift. The properties also sell hunting and fishing licenses, and cabins are rented. In the context of the general government, the Committee has raised certain administrative issues. On the one hand, the Ministry is asked to consider tests in which public opinion is managed as a public body and, on the other hand, the Ministry is asked to consider tests in which the tasks of the Board of Governors and the Board of General Affairs are handled by a joint body. In the case of public opinion managed as a building public opinion, there is already a basis in the State Public Administration Act for decisions that forest management and the right to work can be managed under the Building Public Administration Act. Whether it would be appropriate for more general government to be transferred to such management will depend on several factors. This must include, inter alia: assess whether the conditions are purely resource-friendly and whether the beneficiaries wish to use such a scheme. This is among the questions that the Government will have to come back to. The Committee has been given the impression that, in general terms of forestry, there may be conflicts of interest between the Mountain Government, the General Government and the State Forest. I would like to point out that these bodies have different roles in the management of the country's areas and take care of different and sometimes cross-cutting interests. Against this background, I have no idea that the level of conflict is really very high. However, management may appear to be complicated. If a new scheme is to be introduced, in my opinion, the reason lies here and not in the level of conflict. An attempt to introduce yet another administrative mechanism does not make the image simpler. The Ministry will take a closer look at this, in line with the Committee's recommendation. In this context, the Ministry will also examine the possibility of strengthening local resource management. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee has addressed a number of issues relating to the sale and management of the country's land. I believe that the Committee agrees that the matter raises a number of issues, including: legal, economic and practical nature. Many interests are involved, and it is therefore necessary for the Ministry to address matters thoroughly. I therefore imagine that the Government will first come back to Stortinget with the evaluations the Committee requests, and then follow up with concrete proposals based on the signals the Stortinget gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e422	In the vote, the majority of the committee, all except the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, said that many of the smaller parcels that State Forest currently owns in different parts of the country, were sold out of the farm as a result of purely economic hardship, and claims that it is particularly relevant to the return to the use by which the individual parcel was sold. The councils were also involved in this in their article. The question is then: does the Council of State think that those who were once in such an economic situation that they sold their forest will now report as buyers? And what kind of legal precedents will the Council of State set for such matters? I also want to ask: Is that so, for example. possible under the EEA Agreement to prioritise between owners in the manner set out in the suspension? That's for example. it is not certain that the owners of the uses that were once sold currently have financial opportunities or live in areas where the obligation to provide accommodation and services can be satisfied for such a concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e429	This problem, which I also touched on in my post, is not so easy to talk about in general, because we are facing so many stories and so many different practical cases. But it is possible to have the principle approach that the Committee has here, that when one is first to sell out – and that is what we are prepared to do for many of these individual forest owners – an effort should be made, if possible, to find a practical and good system in which this is brought back to the former landowner who is also interested in being a landowner and has the opportunity to manage it in a good way. I don't believe in much near that it will be right in all cases – if it was a question of what I think – but it will be a reasonable solution in a good many cases. And then we have to find a way to do this that feels like a sense in the local environment where this is going to happen, and that is consistent with the rules that we're subject to. For example, it will. may involve fixing a fair price, which would be the price ‘previous owner’, at least in the case of farm use, meetings, as any other owner. Of course, a real market price or a selling price must be fixed on the property. It is not a matter of – and I have not understood the committee – giving some special discounts on that kind of thing, of the kind of thinking that is in the mindset of the law of no part, for example. However, when selling these properties at a fixed market price, which the EEA rules will require, it will in many cases be a practical arrangement for them to be returned to the property to which they had once been added. There may be entirely physical reasons for this — that the properties are linked, for example, to one another, which is one of the reasons, or that they have once belonged to such a property. When this is going to happen, I think it's important that you have confidence that there will be practical people from the state looking for good solutions. We have good institutes to get this done, among other things. in the geothermal system and other systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e438	While we see that the setting opens up a certain development in this area and gives a certain signal to the districts, there are also some barriers that I think I can see in this, among other things. in relation to the protection of the coniferous forests. According to the letter of reply we received from the department, the areas of State Forest are also to be used for the protection of the coniferous forests. But this will take time. There has been a new report that suggests that we should protect larger areas than we have previously plotted. And what the majority now want, can then stop that process pending working with coniferous protection. Will it not be possible – as the Ministry's letter of reply also states in relation to the change of husbandry to be used by private landowners – to start the process of selling individual cadastral parcels and parts, as requested by the majority, and to deposit the money into a fund or otherwise make it available for the purchase of suitable forest land for those affected by such a change of husbandry, so that the process and the farmers to have replacement areas can be started in the foreseeable future? Is there anything the Council wants to work for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e450	I'm happy to be able to say a little bit about coniferous protection in general in this context. It occupies me very much for several reasons, partly because we should protect more congested forests in Norway for the sake of biodiversity, partly because what I experience as an unfortunate conflict and partly verbal struggle between the environment and forestry, I think that we can be resolved if we get more movement in the coniferous forest protection, and partly because of the unfortunate solution that many landowners are struggling with, forest owners who have been connected to land for a long time without having their protective status clarified or getting a settlement. All of this should be solved. The scattered forest areas of the state forest can and should be an important instrument in such a context that the country must use money to trigger the area of coniferous forest protection. But this can be done in a better way for all parties if one in addition can offer the purchase of forest from Statskog for the money you have received in compensation, and in that way make that a forest owner is not left with less forest and more money, but is still left with forest that makes it possible to nourish. That's the kind of connections we want to get, and that's exactly what we have to do in the future while there are still some scattered forest areas in Statskog that can be used in such a context. So to get it flexible couplings and arrangements. It is a concrete question of using a fund, for example: Fund for the protection of the coniferous forests, in such a context as to obtain flexibility. There are a few days for the revised national budget to be provided. I do not ignore the fact that the representative Hedstrom can come to like any of what he can read in this area when it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e457	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first question is: Is it a problem for the Norwegian State to be the owner of the forest property managed by Statskog? Is it so problematic that it is beneficial that we get rid of them, are they at such a great burden to the councils of state and those who govern the country today? Question no. 2: Does the Council of State think it is important that we have some areas in this country that are set at the same level for all of our 4.5 million inhabitants, so that one can fish, hunt and use the areas regardless of the kind of economic situation in which one is located, and not as today as some areas are actually reserved for those who are resourceful in relation to having a good economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e466	To question No. 1, if it is a problem for the state to be a major landowner, it is my opinion that it is a problem for all of us that we have not succeeded in getting beyond what we have done, and it is a problem that we have many weak private businesses in the agricultural sector around Norwegian villages. I kind of want to solve the two problems before I answer the first question. If the state frees some scattered forest areas both to strengthen coniferous protection and to strengthen some private forest owners around, I think I've solved two important problems. And I think that's where I have my main idea. I can be more helpful on the second question. I think I dare say that the representative Ryan said about the importance of everyone having access to hunting, fishing and outdoor activities for a reasonable amount of money in this country, this council of states burns as much for as big-time representative Ryan does. I have also, as a boy, experienced being kicked away from a fish water and had the fishing rod destroyed by landowners etc., so I also have some bitter experiences that make me work to make it abundant and good access to reasonable hunting and fishing for most people in this country. In this context, State Forest has an important role to play. And then we'll remember that very much of Statskog's reason is just such an area, and very much is above the coniferous limit. There we have an important task in managing these amazing natural areas for the benefit of the Norwegian people, owned by the Norwegian people. This does not prevent the rational sale of scattered forest properties to strengthen a weak private business around Norwegian villages. It is also important to clarify, as there is a lot of talk about rickshaws, etc., that there is a large offer in the Norwegian community on cheap hunting and fishing also on private grounds. There are many, many places where you can buy fishing licenses and hunting licenses for a reasonable amount of money from private people. Therefore, there should be a diversity of offers, and the State has a role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e475	I'll follow up on Bendiks H. Arnesen's line. The answer from the Council of State is so good in the sense that he says that this is a complicated matter if you are going to sell to those who were once in economic distress and therefore had to sell out the forest. I see the practical questions. But not everyone who was in that situation will have the opportunity to buy forest. One thing is that they may not be economically able to do it, but probably it will be that someone does not get bought or can buy forest. Will we be able to get into the situation that some of those who had to sell because of need can actually come up with a claim for compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e480	I haven't read the committee's attitude to the Storting so that there's some right here that would go back two-three-four generations, to take over or bring such forest land back to the properties. But it's expressed a wish, with strong leads to government and state forest, that when we're going to sell out such forest parcels, the state should strive to find sensible and friendly arrangements where this is returned to the property, assuming that there is today an owner who is interested in buying and managing it in a good way. This is the lead I feel the government has received in relation to this committee position we are dealing with today. The task – and it may not be small – is to do this in such a way that it does not create new evil blood in the community but is an accepted solution. This could be done, for example, by: be cases where the owner of a very large property sold out its forest and where there are many others who could reasonably have needed to strengthen the land base today. In such contexts, it may be appropriate to use the instruments of land change legislation to find good solutions. And there may be cases where it might be relevant to divide such forest properties into several, but where one of the properties under which this once lay, belongs to one of the new owners. I therefore think it is difficult to go very far in general considerations about this in addition to the desire for a test – where it is natural and practicable – to bring these types of properties back. We almost have to look down on the case to see how this is going to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e485	The Council of State and the representative of Ryan might need a little follow-up, so I would ask the Council of State to help clarify the public rights attached to Norwegian outland. The misunderstanding seems to assert that picking berries, cloud ants in Finnmark or the possibility of free movement should be threatened by getting private owners instead of state owners, which is not the case as far as I can understand. The Outdoors Act, which lays down rules on public access to free movement and berry ploughing, applies to all owners whether they are State or private. To the extent that the representative Ryan has been thrown away from berry plucking, there is a problem with regard to the outdoor law, not with regard to the fact that it was a private owner. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm it. And like that, the cloud ant in Finnmark is more threatened by EEA rules than by private owners. So to the hunting and fishing rights. I agree that it is important to have a good and reasonable offer so that as much as possible can operate hunting and fishing in Norway. I think it's important to be aware that over 95 pst. of the area currently occupied by State Forest, will continue to be the area of State Forest, where one can also fish and hunt. However, one of the Committee's comments to the Council of State is on the issue of the VAT exemption currently granted by the State Forest, which makes it possible to offer more reasonable hunting and fishing opportunities than can be provided by private individuals and which may have a distortive effect on competition vis-à-vis private landowners. Is there a moment that should be considered when it comes to enabling private owners to make more reasonable offers to the population in terms of hunting and fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e492	I can confirm that the Council of State is also aware of the legislation in the area that ensures the free movement of the public in Norwegian outland, regardless of who is the landowner. And so it has to be, because there are important values in this, and there are values that are sometimes up for debate. Among other things, we know that this hall has discussed several times a difficult border climb when the free movement is used for something more organised and perhaps more of a commercial activity. There are some issues that arise: what should be covered by this free movement right? As a basic attitude, it is very clear to me that the free right to travel abroad is a bearable value to take care of in Norwegian society. Who owns the air? So to the specific questions about hunting and fishing, where I experienced that Ryan and I had some exchanges of experience. Because it's not free, it's a landowner's right and the right to get paid. That's the way it is, and that's the way it should be. I believe it is important that we together have a policy around this which means that there is a widespread and comprehensive offer of hunting and fishing where it is possible for ordinary people – if there is something called it – to pay for hunting and fishing rights and exploit it. Here, the state has an important role to play by being such a large player on the supply side that you can offer good opportunities for hunting and fishing at an affordable price and at a price that is such that there are limits to what competitors can offer. Of course, the government will continue to work to ensure that this is the case, as I also stated in my reply to the representative Ryan. With regard to the question of VAT rules, I have given in my reply to the Committee a reason why that is the way it is, and which is very special. The government will now take a closer look at these VAT rules and how these distorting effects are, and come back to the Storting with any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e502	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e505	This is actually a big and important matter for the many thousands of property owners around the district of Norway who have followed in these questions. These property owners and generations before them have certainly had time to be spectators of the lack of momentum on issues that have been crucial to the operational basis needed to provide viable conditions for themselves and their descendants in order to continue to exist in rural areas. It certainly hasn't been easy. We have seen in some processes that you have been sitting for 130 years and riding on things that have been missing a clarification. In this context, it is very positive that we have received this Document No. The 8 proposal, which actually opens up today to bring problems many, many important steps forward. In its statement, the Council of State has also called for the future to be brought forward in these areas, where a sale activity is now to be carried out. I would also like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office who has prepared and presented this matter to the Committee in a very thorough manner. As I said, here the counterclaims are indeed allowed to go from one winner to the next. To the many people who point out that it is difficult to do something, not least because of the setting of the Joint Committee, I would say that this does not have to be comprehensive in itself. This issue has been carefully assessed in advance by the Nordic and Troms Foreign Affairs Commission, which has been in swing for some time. We are talking here about the area of thousands of km2, both forest and mountain sections, where there has been a dispute between private landowners and the state. In the past, the Judicial Committee has stated very clearly what kind of opportunities open up for sale also in areas affected by the case-law of the Joint Committee. There is also reason to recall, as several previous speakers have pointed out, the situation of the previous emergency sales made in parts of the country, and not least in Helgeland, in the Rana area, where we have seen that the process has continued for more than 130 years. It has been very short, and in the sales that have been made here, it cannot be said that the state has been particularly generous, where the state has more or less chosen to retain 60-70 pst. of the most productive areas we find in these areas. The majority here have quite clearly said what you expect. We've defined the ambitions, and we look forward to following up these questions from the department. Then it's a little amazing to hear the speakers of the Workers' Party and the SV, where no one mentions any factual reason that goes against the notions that private property owners can manage the local forest areas, and especially in areas like the Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland counties. A basic mistrust that local property owners could be able to manage these areas, this part of the forest, in at least as good a way as that country has so far been able to do. One chooses to continue running as before, with a combination of the country's commercial and administrative involvement. And then this debate allows itself to introduce concepts of free movement into the fields, hunting and fishing opportunities. In my opinion, this has very little to do with this matter. And as the representative Arnstad has been involved, we have laws, the law of the open air, among other things, that significantly safeguard the interests we are going to have in place in this area. What is being done, on the other hand, is to exacerbate opportunities for activities in the field, for outdoor fishing, hunting and other activities, as one still wants to gloat under a policy that exacerbates the economic opportunities to develop these important areas in Foreign Norway for the exciting periods we go into. Fortunately, here the majority is now taking action and opening up more robust economic units in the local forestry industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e520	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e523	It has been claimed by the representatives of the Workers' Party and the SV that this matter is, in a deep sense, about whether we should have general availability in our field, or whether it should be made exclusive. With all due respect – that’s not what this is about, I think it’s a solid record bomb. Several of the articles have pointed out that the rights of all persons are protected by other grounds of law, and I agree with that. What this issue is about is issues of central governance in relation to local government. There's been a lot of discussion about fat forest land, probably because it's the ones that might be the most current to sell out. But if you look at where Statskog actually owns something, it's not essentially where the forest is thick and it's high bonity. State forest has large areas in mountain areas and in quite slippery outland. It is then such a case of small municipalities up below the mountain, which today are indeed pressured from many sides. An agriculture on the defensive or increasingly extensive national rules on the use of land are examples of this. I want to understand a little bit about the signals that the majority have given. The majority show that local ownership is important to enhance local performance and to strengthen local use. But it's not just landowners, it's also the local population in general. I would like to point out the signals given in relation to tests concerning the management of land as a building property. Strengthening the relationship between the local population and the operation of the outlying areas will be a major advantage for Building Norway. It will give a greater understanding of the environmental action, it will provide a greater understanding of coniferous protection and of the restrictive rules in place. I also think it is difficult to see that organisation as a building public should give something weaker rights or some weaker basis for the public in relation to picking berries or also working with hunting and fishing. Rather, on the contrary – building public opinion will be able to deal with the issues with a great deal of understanding in relation to the needs, expectations and history of the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e534	Today, forest has 110 employees, of which 80 are. are manual forest workers. The manual forest workers have a high level of competence in their field of work. They are currently the last professional environments of forest workers in Norway. State forest only has 5 pst. of the market, but approx. 30 pst. by all-year-old forest workers in Norway. State forests are important for industry — not because of their size, but because of their role — and contribute to the necessary diversity in Norwegian forestry. State forest has the ability to be industrial in thought and action and contributes to increased competition, which in turn contributes to professionalising the behaviour of all actors. It's important to keep State Forest as it is today. I can't see why you're going to change the organisation of State Forest that you have today. After the Bondevik government took over, on several occasions there have been riots and proposals for the privatisation of state companies, and here it seems that it is privatisation for the sake of privatisation. State forest works well today. And since my stand is Hedmark, I have to say that it is this county that is hit most by a possible sale of Statskog. A privatisation will tear down the foundations of State Forest in its present form and function. It will indirectly have consequences for about 113 employees and directly have consequences for at least 50 employees working on the land of Statskog. The fact that some political environments are essentially against state ownership cannot be a basis for the cutting of the wings or the raging of this group. Much of the activity undertaken by Statskog, alone or in alliance with private operators, provides a return that is in no way behind the return of other comparable enterprises in Norway. The return benefits the state and all of us owners. In addition, socio-economic and district policy aspects are involved in sales. There will be people who lose a lot of jobs. In Hedmark – and especially in the Workers' Party – we are against the sale of State Forest, a sale that also weakens public law and the accessibility of people to recreation, leisure, hunting and fishing. It may not worry the Right, but it should worry the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e545	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e561	The background to the case is the treatment of the State budget for 2002, which was decided to reduce the overall budget. 224 for a written examination in primary school of $12 million. kr. At the same time, a majority underlined that centrally prepared tests remain part of the overall student assessment. The Committee first has a unanimous remark stating ‘that the Ministry does not consider that the external censorship costs of the comprehensive school examination within the agreed allocation framework are covered by the budget and notes that it will be difficult for practical and temporal reasons to obtain a different type of final evaluation in the primary school for the 2001/2002 school year’. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, has a comment stating that ‘the main objective of the student assessment in primary school is to promote learning and development. The evaluation shall support the learning work by providing feedback and guidance on the student’s work, and ’ – not least – ‘motivate further learning. The student assessment shall also provide a basis for the evaluation and improvement of the quality of education.’» In addition, the Committee has three minor comments. The right, Christian People's Party and the Left refer to the mandate of the Quality Committee and its assessments when they arrive, and the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen have a minority comment that «the examination based on national tests and external censorship... is maintained». I want to spend time explaining to the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party's minority comment. I'm assuming that the other parties will explain to the other minority comments. Today's external evaluation system for written examinations in primary school is not suitable for meeting the content and intentions of Reform 97, which says that exams should promote learning and development. The evaluation shall support learning by providing feedback and guidance on the student’s work, as well as by motivating further learning and improving the quality of teaching. We believe that today's system is cost-intensive and not suitable for developing primary school. With a return of $12 million. However, as is now the case with this proposal, the previous exam has been weakened, where, if you had to maintain the same level, you would have had to have reduced 14 million. kr. In primary schools, there is a need to focus on learning-supporting educational evaluation rather than a cost-intensive final evaluation, and alternative forms of examination need to be developed further. In-flight evaluation is much better and important in the student’s learning process. Today, there is a significant experimentation with new forms of pupil evaluation. There is a need for a systematic evaluation of the local trials with new dossier assessments. This will provide a good basis for assessing supplementary models for evaluation in primary school and will be reviewed. Not least after the introduction of the right to 13-year-old school for students, with about 97 pst. by students continuing to secondary education, the need for examination as sorting disappears little. On the other hand, there is a strong need to develop a system that looks at the 13-year-old race as a whole. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party want to change today's system of externally censored leave examinations in primary school and to increase the emphasis on educational evaluation and focus on the development of new forms of examination and assessment in primary school. The choice made by the State of methods of assessment and examination is of great importance for teaching methods and for the student’s relationship with the learning work. As I said before, there is an exciting experimentation in primary school. I have experienced feedback that today's strong emphasis on the final exam in the 10th school year limits the experimentation and creativity of the Norwegian primary school. We need to put the student in the center and put learning, development and learning support in the center. I would argue that today's final evaluation does not do this. We need a system that emphasises that the school should be able to use the student assessment for evaluation in order to increase the quality of school education and as a reference to the quality of education and to where it is nationally located. We also need a national look at the quality of primary school. For example, you can do this. pick out a sample of schools where you can have an external analysis and assessment of a sample of student responses in centrally prepared tests, so that the country can have a general view of how it works, how quality in primary school is, and you can learn from what you do wrong. To primary school again: It is also important to be able to get feedback on where to stand locally with regard to school and the potential for developing education. I believe that today's system is not doing well enough. Finally, I would like to reiterate the majority comment on which all parties, except the Progress Party and Jan Simonsen, are involved, pointing out that L97 states that the main objective of student evaluation in primary school is to promote learning and development, and that the evaluation should support the learning work, by providing feedback and guidance in the student's work, and motivate further learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e600	This is a matter outside the ordinary budgetary procedure, and a majority of the Committee emphasises that centrally prepared tests remain part of the overall evaluation. The Labour Party notes that the Ministry does not consider that it is budgetary coverage for external censorship of the primary school examination within the agreed allocation framework and notes that it will be difficult for practical and temporal reasons to obtain another type of final evaluation in the primary school for the 2001-2002 school year. Reference is made to the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal that the system of written examination at primary school should be changed, so that centrally prepared tests, together with guidance material, would provide evaluation support for the school. Our aim in the conversion was to improve efficiency and a clear quality increase with more focus on tests in the course of training, and not just focus on final evaluation. I have to ask the question about today's system is well enough suitable to satisfy the intentions of student assessment in primary school. It has been the starting point of the Workers' Party, which has also been supported by SV and the Center Party. In order not to pull the debate out unnecessarily, I would just like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteur and to the comments made by the Labour Party, SV and the Centre in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e613	During the budgetary procedure in the autumn, the appropriations for the financial year were capped. 224 to written examination exam in primary school reduced by 12 million. kr. All then it was clear that with that cut the exam could not be conducted as a majority in this room desired. The proposal for additional appropriations had therefore to come. On the Right, we are pleased that there is unanimity in the Committee on Supporting the Ministry's proposal. This means that the examination can be carried out with centrally prepared examinations and with normal examination examinations. We see the exam as an important step in the learning process for students, and also as an important part of the overall student assessment. In our opinion, an evaluation based on centrally prepared tests and a common evaluation basis are also important in order to ensure the legal certainty of students. A minority of the Committee has tried to turn this matter into a matter of evaluation in primary school. There is a big and important debate in which we want to be more than happy. That is why, in our comments, we have referred to the Quality Committee for School, which has a mandate to look at the context of the 13-year-old course. As part of this work, it is natural to discuss evaluation forms and examinations. We believe that this is the natural place for a wide-ranging debate on this. We consider this matter to be a purely budgetary matter in order to obtain the resources necessary for the examination at primary school to be carried out in the way that there is a majority in this Chamber. Let me say, however, that I agree with many of the wordings that emerge from the comments of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. I would like to mention in particular the importance of in-flight evaluation, which must, of course, be there and on which a great deal of attention needs to be paid, and the need to carry out a systematic evaluation of all the important local trials that are taking place. However, we do not agree with the conclusion that this should lead to the completion of written examinations in primary schools with external censorship. We look at other forms of evaluation as a supplement, as a complement, not necessarily as a substitute. However, we will come back to this once the Quality Committee has completed its work. As we say in our remark, we want to await assessments related to this work before we may make changes. With regard to the comment of the Progress Party, I would just like to say that it must not only be allowed, but even it must be possible for the Government to propose additional appropriations when it appears that the decision and intention of the Storting cannot be fulfilled within the budgetary framework that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e632	I want to talk about four things: the decision, the rematch, the use of the exam and the money. Let me start by stating that the Progress Party is very pleased that we are getting some peace of mind about the conduct of the exams this year, too, in 2002, because after the majority decision in December, some uncertainties and concerns were created about it. Let me also stress that we are pleased to note that there will be the necessary money to conduct the exam as we know it, and we are pleased with that. Let me say a little bit about the rematch. We note that this is one of two issues in which a minority resigned from the government parties, after being adjusted by another majority in the committee, comes back with new issues. It is perfectly legitimate and fully possible, as was also the case with previous speakers. But what we are concerned about, and stress in our remarks, is that when it is found necessary to do so in some areas that seem to be so important – and it is actually possible to do so sharply two months after one has, as it were, been related to a framework that cannot be increased – it is clear that others will also look at areas and issues that are considered to be at least as important, and include them in total ageing when the revised national budget is to be settled if not too long. In a note, we have suggested some areas that we consider to be at least equally important: to strengthen education in general at primary school and to grant money to secondary schools, where we have a very unclear situation, both in terms of the future of the county municipality and not least in terms of the financial framework for running today's secondary school. Finally, we have also presented special education, which is an area for which the Progress Party monitors and is concerned. Then, too, in the comments – and then I go to the third point, namely exam as a scheme – we have been careful and clear in stressing our views on this very point. In the sad reactions that came, especially from the Right Government Party, after the majority chose a somewhat different priority than the government parties, the Progress Party was attacked to destroy exams as a scheme. That's not right. We are therefore careful in our remarks to remember and deepen our view that the examination should still have a central place. In a comment, we say: ‘However, in the opinion of these members, examination-based grades should continue to be the main basis for measuring students’ knowledge.’ So we're going to get to the main conclusion right over here. We are pleased that the money has been put in place, and will try to find more money, more ‘fresh’ funds, for other good purposes as well as this, when we are now discussing the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e650	Some opposition parties believe that the current external censorship examination system in primary school is cost-intensive and not suitable to meet the objectives of student assessment in primary school. We'll take note of that. The Christian People's Party believes that compulsory examination as an end to primary school is one of several important measures in the learning process for students. It is a central part of the student assessment and also serves as a legal security mechanism for students. This shall promote learning and development. Nevertheless, it is clear – also for the Christian People's Party – that we should be open to school needs and opportunities for change, and that some arrangements in school can be changed, removed or improved. This has been the task of the Quality Committee. It should not just look at the details, but at the school in a broader context, namely look at the entire 13-year-old training course as a whole. As part of this work, it is natural to discuss the evaluation work and the exams for primary school. So first you want to see the whole thing, you can create change, innovation and creativity in school policy. It does not just happen in a budgetary context where appropriations for written examination are reduced by 12 million. kr, and then expect efficiency and quality improvement. The Christian People's Party believes that a conversion from the external censorship examination is not appropriate in a budgetary context without quality assurance. If you want to take the proposal seriously, it is possible to have a thorough discussion about the theme when the Quality Committee comes up with its setting. So the government parties want to await the assessments related to this work. This matter was about removing appropriations without taking political responsibility for following up this. But with this case today, I am pleased that it will be possible to have the exam in primary school in a good way this year, too, in order to come back to the matter later. I also find it useful to recall that the examination in primary school is now completed in May, i.e. before the revised national budget is adopted. It is therefore necessary for the decision to be reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e667	It was said instead of the representative Olsen that the minority had used a lot of space to write about the evaluation in general. I think that's a correct assessment, because the minority probably emphasizes this with exams in a slightly different way than the majority of the committee does. The main objective of all evaluations in primary school is to promote the learning and development of individual students. So the evaluation is part of helping each student to achieve goals and motivate further learning. In addition, there shall be a basis for improving the quality of education. Today we are dealing with a matter of final evaluation, an examination prepared nationally and with external censorship. It has been explained in the past that the majority of the budget wanted a simpler final exam with local censorship. We kind of thought that would make the entire examination system easier, without weakening the exam as a final evaluation for the students. The center party doesn't think we're going to take the exam, but we wanted to show that it might have given it some form other than what has been traditional. We see – and accept – that the Government needs this additional appropriation in order to be able to conduct the exam this year. I also hope that the other parties will be involved in a good review of evaluation methods at school, so that the quality of education and quality that students are left with after school is raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e678	The President realizes that this may be a fundamental debate, but makes it clear that there are a lot of things left on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e681	Thank you for that call – in fact, I take it as a call. I think we're facing a paradigm shift in Norwegian school and education. Processes are in progress pointing forward to this paradigm shift. Then I think about both the way to organise the teaching and the way to facilitate the learning work. I think that there's going to be dramatic changes. The question that we have to ask ourselves is how we facilitate the framework conditions for this to happen, and that it can happen in a good way. We know that there is a lack of consistency — at least not well enough — between our curricula and what is happening around our schools. We can't achieve the goals and intentions that we have in our curricula, well enough. We know a lot about that, cf. the evaluation of Reform 94, which we dealt with a couple-three years ago here in the Grand Duchy. It showed that we don't get everything. We're not getting to the content reform. We are getting the structural reform, but we are not getting the content reform. It points to some of the things that are why we don't get it. The researchers point out, among other things: that one of the reasons is precisely an evaluation system, an examination system, a character system that largely governs learning. It's not going to be the curriculum and the goals that are drawn up there, that govern, but it's going to be the exam, it's going to be the textbook, it's going to be all this outside that rules. Then we have to make it possible for the curricula to become this governance tool as it should be – assuming that the situation is not different in primary school than it is in secondary school, that the evaluation we have in Reform 94 can largely also cover primary school. So we're faced with making some changes, so that we can realize the intentions of our curriculum. I think that the exam, the final exam, our character system, is one of the things we have to get into, just to try to stimulate a learning work, to get a sheep to a teaching system that emphasizes learning, and then learning in relation to the curriculum, not learning in relation to an exam that comes in a certain number of years. We know that exams and grades are not good enough motivation. Then we need to develop a character system, an evaluation system, which aims to support learning. It should be educationally supportive. That must be the goal. I'm sorry we didn't get a majority to start that debate, get these processes going well enough. I recorded what Jan Olav Olsen said, that he – and as I understood it, also Right – is willing to participate in that kind of debate in the years to come. Given that a majority in the committee is clear that we have to take some action here to get the developments that we want going, and when the Right now also suggests that they are at least willing to be with and discuss, I see a little bit brighter about the situation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e694	I'm not going to extend this unnecessarily, but the principle is at least that this is the first of two rematches. And at least for a new raise representative who looked up to the budget exam in December, there's a basis for some observations based on that. In any case, my lesson is that comments must be highlighted much more clearly than the majority have done this time, and preferably in the form of an adopted proposal. On the part of the Progress Party, we believe – and we still believe – that the comment relating to centrally prepared tests, given by the majority, is quite clarifying, and should be quite governing for whether or not to conduct the exam. If it is that there is a lack of will in the ministry, there is reason to look at it. If it is true that there is a lack of authority to re-priorities within central budget chapters mentioned in the notes, which have a total budget envelope of more than 350 million. kr, there is reason to consider it, perhaps also for the Minister of Administration of this Government, who is committed to the renewal of the public sector. At least we believe that the remark was crystal clear when it was that the exam was to be conducted as before. But we're satisfied with this solution, because the most important thing is, after all, to ensure exams.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e704	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Fotation, see page 2497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e720	The majority had a thorough review and evaluation of Reform 94 almost three years ago. There was a relatively broad consensus in the Storting that the reform had been a success. We saw that more people got a place in school, more people got an apprenticeship, and more people completed their training. Nevertheless, we saw that there were also certain shortcomings. Among other things, the professional correction of the general subjects in the professional field had not come far enough, and the possibility of flexibility within the main model was also not sufficiently exploited. In the light of Storting's treatment at the time, it should not be necessary to deal with this matter here today. But we see that these are still two problem areas in higher education. There was a lot of talk about the theory press in higher education also during the evaluation of Reform 94. There can be no doubt that there was a need, both in business and too many students, to prepare the theory in the old professions. But this was done without the assumption of a good professional correction of the theory being implemented. The project launched by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research in 2000 on the differentiation and organisation of secondary education can, hopefully, contribute to the greater adaptation of training to the needs of each student. I'm glad that an almost collective committee joins the proposal, which will make it easier for students who want it, to take the entire training in the company. This will be fully in line with the right to adapted training. If we are to make such a system work, school-business cooperation needs to be strengthened. In many counties, schools have good cooperation with local businesses. From my own home country, More and Romesdal, we have several good examples of that. This is useful not only for schools but also for enterprises, which can thus help to ensure that they have skilled labour in the future. It is important that there is a close and coherent link between practical training and how the theoretical part is organised and structured. When business becomes more responsible for the practical part of training, it is also important not to exacerbate the conditions for accepting apprentices. In this respect, I would like to comment on the proposal of the Progress Party to increase the apprenticeship grant again. In the Workers' Party too, we have seen that the conversion of the grant scheme from the turn of the year has had consequences. It's important that we don't weaken the chances of getting an apprenticeship. In some disciplines, there is also a risk that training offices will have to cease or reduce their activities as a result of a reduction in grants. This is particularly worrying in a situation where we want to give companies greater responsibility for the follow-up of those who need to take full four-year training on the company. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that the reduced apprenticeship allowance will particularly affect the most disadvantaged apprentices. That's why we want to increase the apprentice's grant. We believe that the best thing to do is to do this in the context of the revised national budget. We saw in the media last week that a lot of evidence suggests that the professions have become more popular, even though the final statistics are not quite clear. This is a positive development on which we have to build further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e737	Let me first express satisfaction at the fact that there is now a majority in the Grand Duchy to open up more flexible solutions for the many students who are struggling to complete a vocational training within the main model of Reform 94. Since the preparations for reform 94, and regularly afterwards, concrete proposals have been made in the Grand Duchy on more flexible and pupils-adapted training in this area, but have only recently been heard by the majority of the population that this was both necessary and desirable. Already when examining the position of the Blegen Committee, which was the basis for the introduction of Reform 94, the Right considered that the setting was too strongly influenced by the desire to make high school a high school. Rightly warned against this development, and at that time considered — as now — that it is important to maintain that higher education must be based on different but equivalent offers. The right also underlined the need for a greater degree of differentiation of education based on the needs and professional levels of students. Earlier in the United Kingdom, the right has also proposed measures to strengthen vocational training. We have paid particular attention to the importance of opening up alternative courses in vocational education and training, in order also to provide an offer to young people who are low on school motivation or who have problems with the amount of theory. In June 1995, the Storting decided to open up access so that very small school-motivated students can obtain approval for an apprenticeship outside the main reform 94 model, so that these students can receive full vocational training in the company. The right then thought that the government's proposal did not go far enough, and that the criteria that had been chosen meant an unfortunate stamping of the student group in question. For this reason, the right-hand approach suggested that students who would like to have little benefit from the main model of vocational training may receive alternative training courses. Theoreticalally weak students should be given the opportunity to take a professional test with a simplified model of professional theory. In the opinion of the Right, one of the most serious problems with Reform 94 is that it has become more difficult for the theory-weaker students to undertake vocational training, but so far there has been little hearing in the Storting to do something about these problems. With today's proposal and the broad agreement this is going to get in Stortinget, the signals from Stortinget are now so clear that there is every reason to count on follow-up and change for the better. In other words, we will go a long way in the direction that the Right has been working for many years. There is also reason to commend businesses and public enterprises for having so clearly expressed their readiness to assume the additional obligations arising from the fact that more than one professional student will be able to receive full training in the enterprise. On the part of Storting, we must be clear and equally willing to make the necessary changes and adaptations to adjacent legislation if obstacles are to arise in this respect and in the implementation of the reform. First of all, this is a joyous day for the students, but it is also nice to record that even and good work over many years provides good results – for individual students, for businesses and for society as a whole. In the end, I just want to say that there is no shame in turning, even for the Workers' Party. I remember that it was the government of Stoltenberg who, as late as last year, proposed to cut the apprenticeship allowance, and when the Workers' Party now signals that they want to go back on that policy, I think it's a positive attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e760	It is well known that for a long time the Progress Party has had a critical view of the over-dimensioning of general theory in the field of professional study after we received Reform 94. This often means that students who are motivated by practical vocational education experience a high distance between expectation and reality. The Progress Party sees a link between the high drop-out rates and the theory of vocational training. After ten years of theory, applicants for a professional course of study want to receive practical training, not more theory. As a general view of vocational education, the Progress Party considers that theoretical knowledge must be adapted to the reality of the student's professional life. It means, in the view of the Progress Party, that the scope and content of the theoretical part of the teaching are limited and more clearly linked to the profession itself. The Progress Party is also committed to stressing the importance of cooperation between schools and businesses, i.e. business, and we are concerned that it must also include an economically sound foundation. During the examination of this matter in the Committee, it has been found that what was part of the budgetary decision – and no batches found to respond to during the review of minor adjustments – is a significant reduction in the apprenticeship scheme. We have found it natural – when we have a case like this for treatment – to link our proposals precisely to that relationship. I refer you to our proposal No. 3, which was also mentioned by the representative of the Workers' Party. I had hoped and believed that those who have expressed dismay and concern over a severe reduction in the apprenticeship grant scheme in recent weeks would have supported the Progress Party's proposal here to clarify that there is money in the revised national budget. So back to the starting point: our view is that we should have a flexible and practically oriented vocational training as the main principle. That is why we are promoting our proposal No. 1 over just that. We are also concerned about funding, and we are promoting proposal No. 2 on the ‘changed funding model for the operation of secondary schools so that the money follows the student according to the single price principle’, and on the other hand that the financing model through the single price covers a scheme of apprenticeship grants to the firm providing such vocational training. With that, I've taken up our three suggestions. I would like to add that we will subsidiaryly support the proposal presented by the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e782	Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e785	After hearing Søren Fredrik Voie’s contributions, you can get a feeling that this SV proposal is a result of Right heroic struggle over many years to adjust Reform 94. It's not! This proposal is a follow-up, and it goes into the range of other adaptation proposals that we in SV have promoted. During the evaluation of Reform 94, we promoted proposals for a new level of education, which is what we call a learner. We got it adopted, we got it legal later, and now we follow up what we said during the evaluation of what goes on more flexible for those who are going to a letter. This is a necessary adjustment to reform 94. I am pleased that the majority is behind this proposal. I'm happy on behalf of the students – up to 30 pst. by students in different fields of study — who, for different reasons, are struggling and do not reach the degree they really want. I'm quite convinced that if we get this flexibility, these alternative ways to college letters, more people will achieve the goal they've set and they want to achieve. The decision we take today is directed primarily at the ministry. I expect the department to follow up pretty quickly, and give clear messages to the county councils that this should be an alternative race. It should be easier to get this course for students who need it for different reasons. They may lack school motivation, be tired and tired of school, and they should have this as an alternative. The decision is addressed to the county councils to facilitate alternative races. It is important that the county councils take this signal, seize it from the fall and facilitate the conditions for students who need alternative runs. This is targeting the schools that need to create systems, structures, which are so that we can catch up with the students who will have problems with the main 2+2 model, and for which this is going to be a way. The decision also addresses vocational training councils to see how to combine theory and practice within the established system. All four of these parties have a challenge in the light of the decision we are now making. The decision is divided into two parts. It goes both on the structure and on the content of reform 94. First, quickly change the structure. We're going to make a structural change and we're going to say that it's going to be an alternate race. Now someone would say that it exists today, and it does so far, but based on what the size now says, it should be easier to choose an alternative to the 2+2 model. The main model is there, the 2+2 model is the main model, but it should be easier to get other runs up to the letter. Expert judgement shall not be necessary and stigmatisation shall not be necessary for pupils to receive this offer. So here it's the students themselves, along with the school, with parents and with other actors, who say, "We need this, and we have to get this if we're going to be able to achieve the goal." We can do this if we get a race that is adapted to our motivation, our abilities and our assumptions. In addition, schools, in order to be an alternative, need to provide appropriate pedagogical advice. This means that there has to be a close interaction between schools and companies where students contract, so that it is put up for the good run and good cooperation, and so that a person is able to integrate theory and practice in a good way. One can and must also have the enterprise as the learning venue. This Decision also addresses the content of the training. We say that theory and practice, and then we link it up to ordinary school education, basic school and VK1, must be integrated in a better way than what we get today. Those who work with the ordinary course, the 2+2 race, have to be more conscious and make a setup where students see more easily the relationship between theory and practice. And if we do, I also think that more people will be able to make the main race, which after all is there as a main race, but we are now opening up for extra races and other ways forward. That's what's important. So finally what goes on at the grant rates. It is true that when we dealt with the state budget, a reduction in the appropriations was made. We also said that there should be coordination of rates. But someone never suggested that you cut out the grant to, for example, the training offices. We have counties there up to 70 pst. of the apprenticeship contracts are established through a training office. And when the entire grant to the training offices goes away, this could upset the offer in the counties. This is unsustainable, it doesn't matter. In the context of the revision, at least we have to get back the grant to the training offices, so that they can run the business that we are completely dependent on if we are to get the number of contracts that we have to have in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e807	By virtue of the right to secondary education, students are given the opportunity to take vocational training. This is how reform 94 has been successful. But students are different and have different assumptions and needs. Today's main model of vocational training through two years in school and two years in the company is not suitable for all students. It has been the recognition that has also been based when we have previously opened up that one can start in the company, and then fill up with theory later on. That access has so far been linked to an expert assessment, an expert assessment which has had a good intention in that a person wishes to facilitate an organised training course. I wish that the schools used these alternative options to a greater extent than what turns out in practice. In order to make these possibilities more real, we should now phase out the expert judgement system. However, I assume that the responsibility for and work on organised training is not weakened as a result of the termination of such a scheme. Christian People's Party wants to keep today's main model of vocational training, but we recognize that some young people have other needs and desires. These should be met in order to give young people a good introduction to the world of work and to increase the desire to invest in skills and lifelong learning. As it is today, there is a very high level of programming in relation to particular educational pathways through the main model, and it is more involved in weakening young people's introduction to the world of work than in strengthening it. Finally, I also record that the rapporteur, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, is now signaling the willingness to increase the apprenticeship grant in 2002, after her own government in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 refers to the cut as ‘a minor reduction’. The review in St.prp. No 1 must well be said to be a strong substatement, and one should be a good numbrator to understand that this meant a cut of approx. 15 pst. Having said that, I would like to say that I think it is positive that the Labour Party and several others who have also voted in favour of the same budget and the same grant scheme are now signalling and recognising that a reduction in such a scale is likely to lead to fewer apprentice contracts. Also in the Christian People's Party, we will help to find a solution to that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e821	I would just like to take the opportunity to say a few words about the follow-up to this matter, also in the light of some media suggestions that might leave the impression that there is some disagreement between one of the proposers and the department about the follow-up to the case. Let me therefore first say that I can without fail join the intention of the proposal that has been promoted here, and that I am very pleased with the broad majority who are now forming behind this matter. It is quite clear that, in some cases, it is unnecessary and stigmatizing to call for expert judgement in order to be able to learn straight after primary school. So this I totally agree with, this should get easier. It is also in line with the Sem Declaration. And I can inform you here and now that it's not just that the ministry will facilitate this, we've already taken the initiative to do immediate tests and trials on this system, that it's going to be easier. Thus, the signals must have already been sent to interested parties, including the counties. So to this by improving the relationship between theory and practice. The theory training is, of course, something that can still be improved, and it is also an important signal that is constantly being communicated to the sector. But when it comes to winding up the system with expert judgement, it requires a certain investigation, not if we're going to do it, but if we're going to do it, and how we're going to do it. I'd like to justify it. In fact, it requires a change in the law to wind up the system and the requirement for expert judgement, and that means that if we are to make a change in the law, the law itself will not be able to take effect until those who leave primary school in the spring of 2003, i.e. not in the spring of 2002, but we will facilitate trials before that time. It requires changes in the dissemination provisions, and it requires an assessment of the financial settlement in relation to the apprenticeships. I'm also very concerned that these students are secured a path to some kind of final competence, and that we know how that path goes, and that it leads. It requires that we assess the county council's obligations, etc. We have already started discussions on this with the heads of state and the Council for Vocational Training. They have not yet wanted to give any final advice on this proposal to us, but they wanted this to be clarified before they gave us any final advice. They'll do that when they've looked at something more closely. So we're setting up immediate trials, but it'll take a little longer to change the law. I'm sure a legislative assembly knows that. When it comes to any changes in the main model, I just want to say this: there is a reason to note that, on the basis of the model we have, we have far more apprentices and also a higher status for the professions, and that is positive. Nevertheless, I believe that it is possible to simplify and certainly also improve the system, and I await the quality committee's setting to make any suggestions about it. There will then be plenty of opportunity to come back to a discussion on this, just as in the light of the presentation of the Quality Committee, we will discuss what was heard during the previous case on evaluation and evaluation forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e836	I'm going to be quick, but I have to comment on what the Council of State raised in connection with expert assessments. I also accept and realise that this is about to change the law, but what is important now – immediately – is that there are messages to the county councils about what is the intention of this proposal, as the Stortinget has said. We know that the expert assessment varies from school to school and from state to state, and it is important that what comes out in this matter goes out to schools, to PP offices, which often make the expert assessment, so that from the harvest it becomes really easier for students who need alternative runs to get it. We can't keep bothering many students who are struggling with the traditional 2+2 model, who will get it easier and will be able to get to the letter if they get an alternative race. That's the point, and then of course we'll have to take the time we need to make the necessary adjustment of the law. It's a relatively simple thing – it's probably about cutting one or two sentences in the law – so we'll do that. What's important is that what the Big One is doing today is going out, that it's going to take effect as soon as possible and as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e842	I believe I was quite clear in my post. It's not just that the signal should go out, it's gone out. We have met, among others. with the heads of state education, so they are very well aware of the proposal here, and of course they are also aware of this debate and the outcome of this proposal. But I think it must be legal, in the light of the media debate that has been going on, to draw attention to the fact that if you are going to make a permanent change in the demand for expert judgement, it requires a change in the law, and that work must be done properly for the sake of legal certainty. Therefore, it is not possible in time to make it apply to high school students who leave this spring. But that it should be easier, and that it can happen like tests and trials, that signal has gone out, and I believe that I made clear in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e849	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e865	With effect from 1 January 1998, the interest rate on loans in the State Loan Fund for Education has been market-driven. In the context of the conversion to market-driven interest rates, an interest margin of 1 percentage point was introduced in addition to the ordinary interest rate. This should include, inter alia: cover administrative expenses and losses. In this context, administrative expenses should not be confused with the administrative fee charged by the Borrowing Fund for the issue of invoices. This fee is already a fixed NOK amount, and is shown in the invoice. In the position of the State Banking Committee, NOW 1995:11, it was recommended to introduce an interest margin, among others. to harmonise the systems of the State Educational Loan Fund and the Husbank. However, in order for the systems to be comparable, the interest margin in the State Lending Fund for Education must be higher than in the House Bank. The background for this is simply that the House Bank is offering loans secured by mortgages, while the Loan Bank is offering unsecured loans. The bank accounts for the losses recorded in 2001 were about 452 million. kr, and the interest margin only partially reflects that amount. The intention of the proposers is to halve the interest margin to 0.5 percentage points, the same percentage as in the House Bank. The majority in this setting indicates that such a half-life is approximately 250 million. kr, and that is therefore a budgetary question. The majority also consider that if a budget is to allocate 250 million. kr extra for study funding, a thorough assessment of the amount to be spent must be made. So the question is whether you want to spend this kind of allocation on the customers of the Loan Fund who have completed the education, as the proposers put it, or on the customers of the Loan Fund who are under education. On this basis, the majority requests that Document No. 8:74 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e880	The father in this case is that we discuss different sides or put different things in the same terms. I think the case rapporteur gave a good presentation of the majority vote, but I have some comments. The starting point of Document No. Of course, the 8 proposal is a little wrong when you compare the administration fee in other banks with the interest margin in the Loan Fund, which mainly covers losses and risks of lending. One can also wonder what is the intention of the proposers, since in the text of Document No. The 8 proposal is argued that you should reduce the administrative fee or the interest margin, but you end up asking that you just give the cost in dollars and not in percent. In my opinion and in the view of the Workers' Party, it is not unreasonable that the risk of loss is covered within the Loan Fund's lending activities and that the conditions reflect at higher cost its higher loans. We also believe that today's system seems to be the easiest way to ensure the coverage of the Loan Fund's total lending activity. Of course, one could choose to have taxpayers – as the Progress Party would have said – pay more of the costs of lending. However, as the rapporteur points out, there must be a balance here as to whether improvements should be made here for those who are going to take education or are under education, in relation to those who have completed the education. For the Workers' Party, at least now it is important to ensure financial coverage for improved student funding, which we have adopted in this year's budget. If there is no lower interest margin now, the Progress Party wants, but clarification of the administrative part, then together we have asked for an overall review of the rules for repayment in the context of this year's budget. I think it is natural that any change or change in the system of visibility of the loan conditions, including the margin of interest and the coverage of losses and administration on lending, should be considered in this context. I also have comments on two important considerations referred to in Document No. The 8th proposal by the rapporteurs. It is said that we should have the best possible funding for studies to ensure a high level of education and competence. Yes, that's exactly why we've been in favour of improved student funding, which will be launched from the fall of the year. It is also said that the funding for education should be competitive with the one held abroad. I have no statistics here and now, but my impression is that Norwegian students are attractive on the international market for the provision of youth study places. And as I was in it, the study funding is to be improved from the autumn of. Speaking of the debate earlier today, I assume that no one is trying to re-examine the study funding contained in this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e895	Administrative fee or not administrative fee, invoice and reminder fee or administrative fee, debt insurance or welfare offer – this seems to have become the big and only content of this case, which was promoted because the Progress Party has a very strong desire to reduce the interest rate on student loans for nearly half a million students who are now finished. The student loan rate has been an important topic for many years, especially for students. It has been documented and shown that Norwegian study funding and interest rates are not the best scheme in the world. The interest rate is highest in the Nordic region. Furthermore, it has been regularly pointed out that the reminder fees for non-payment are also very high in relation to the fees charged by other lending institutions. The party opposed to cancelling these fees in the previous period. Maintenance of the 1 pst mark-up, which, according to the majority, is intended to cover potential losses on grounds relating to unsecured loans, is special. In the view of the Progress Party, the best way to reduce the loss potential of these loans is to introduce a debt insurance scheme as described in the document and otherwise reduce the cost to the individual student as much as possible. It's a fact that when expenditure goes down, it's usually easier to pay their bills. It also reduces the potential for loss. It is strange that the simplest steps cannot be taken without lengthy assessments and investigations being carried out, and proceedings being brought for a hectic budgetary procedure. However, it is certain that a reduction in the corresponding discount would cost 500 million. kr. 0.5 percentage points would be equivalent to 250 million. kr. When it is claimed that these revenues are used to cover losses on loans, there is currently no designation of the revenues supporting this claim. Wenche Merli, head of the Loan Fund, said in the Newspaper on 9 January 2002: «The consideration shall partially cover losses, partially cover administrative expenses.» This shows that the definition of the document is correct, which is what the majority of the comments argue. As long as the money is a general income, the claim that this is an administration fee must be on a secure basis. It is also a question of whether it is right that students who are in the start-up phase and prioritize payment of instalments and interest should also cover the lack of priorities of other students. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would say that this is at the limit of what we can call immoral. Who has the best opportunity to cover any losses – the state of simple grips or young people in the start-up phase with poor finances? On 5 October 1999, the daily newspaper, entitled ‘Failure of Students’, wrote the following: ‘Lilletun says no to lower interest rates and student housing.’ The Bondevik I government obviously had as bad advice as Bondevik II. There is no money to fulfill the promises. Neither the lower student loan rate nor the increase in the grant rate were put in place at that time. In order to achieve a substantial increase in the grant share, the Progress Party and the Labour Party had to cooperate on a majority. The others were against it. On 9 January 2002, the Newspaper was rewritten under the heading «The missing interest rate». «Three years ago, all parties in the Grand Duchy would reduce the student loan rate by 0.5 per cent. But the interest rate cut hasn't seen anything yet." This is absolutely correct. Everyone meant it, but no one took responsibility for doing anything. The majority obviously still have varying motives for not giving students lower interest rates. The Loan Fund itself has proposed three times – before the 2000 budgetary procedure, before the 2001 budgetary procedure and before the 2002 budgetary procedure – that the fee should be reduced by 0.5 percentage points but not consulted. The implementation of both the Voksenå Declaration and the Sem Declaration costs money, a lot of money. It must be allowed to ask whether there are more users of political decisions than the students who have to suffer for some airy views and visions of government statements. With this I will address the minority proposal from the Progress Party and Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e947	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e950	I'll be brief. When the representative Ursula Evje emphasizes so strongly that one has to bring interest in the Loan Fund, I would like to refer to the comment from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party where we are just saying that we should have a politically controlled interest rate in the Loan Fund. It's actually the only way to bring down the interest rate, and not let the market control this. So a policy-driven interest rate will actually satisfy the representative Ursula Evies' desire to bring down the borrowing rate in the State Loan Fund for Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e957	It's okay that the parties deal briefly with this matter, because there is a broad consensus on it. I just want to point out a few things in the introduction to Evje. It's about keeping some concepts apart here. The costs of the administration, which is what is on my invoice from the Borrowing Fund every three months, 35 kroner to send out a fee, and what would possibly have been there if I did not pay my bill, 260 kroner in a reminder fee, is something other than the administration costs of the Borrowing Fund, which covers completely different things. I would also like to point out and distance myself from what Mr Evje claims when she says that the simplest decisions are being pushed on and postponed to the budgetary processes. Taking a stand for 250 million. kr is not a simple decision, and it should be pushed to the budgetary procedure. Something else I thought would be irresponsible. They are also asked to document claims – among other things. based on some newspaper headlines — that administrative expenses and losses are covered by the interest rate premium. That's absolutely right. Total administrative expenses and losses amounted to 689 million. kr for the Loan Fund in 2001, and the interest margin covers approximately 73 pst. of this. So the losses are not fully covered by the interest margin either. This just to prepare a couple of terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e970	I am not going to cross this debate unnecessarily, but the Progress Party has in the document asked for non-discrimination in the calculation of the fee for the State Loan Fund for Education and Private Financing. We've pointed to the administration fee, which is not earmarked, which actually goes both to purely administrative expenses and to the coverage of loans. Because it has a mixed purpose, it is not clearly specified, it must be regarded as an administrative fee. Anyone other than the loan fund and this assembly would at least have done it. And: What's behind the proposal is that all the parties through the time I've been on the Stortinget have agreed that interest rates must and should fall. We disagree on the instruments. The central party and the SV want a politically driven interest rate. Others have wanted a market interest rate. It can't be particularly difficult to do something that you agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e977	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e993	Proposalers want to ban the advertising of textbooks in primary and secondary schools. They justify the increasing supply of such funding and the importance of setting limits on commercial pressure. During the committee's proceedings, there are two different majority groups. First, a majority in which all parties are present, with the exception of the representatives of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. This majority indicates that the growing-up environment for children and young people is characterised by increasing commercialisation. The majority refers to a hearing opinion of the Parental Committee for Primary School, which feels that children and young people are being subjected to a very strong commercial pressure overall. This majority believes that children and young people should be taught to be aware and critical of advertising and other commercial influences, and it is important to limit advertising both in primary and secondary schools. The same majority, with the same exception, refers to the importance of cooperation between schools, associations, culture and enterprises and specifically demonstrates the importance of focusing more on student enterprises, partnership agreements and close contacts with enterprises. Finally, the same majority refers to the position of the Nyborg Committee, which had the title ‘Grown with a price tag?’. They indicate that the sample proposing that advertising be banned in textbooks and teaching materials in primary schools and that a minority also wanted it extended to secondary schools. Then there is also another majority acting during the committee's proceedings on the matter. A majority of the members from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the representative Jan Simonsen refer to the budgetary remarks under the heading. 223 Higher education in the field of education, and they refer to the Department's reference to an overall review of the support schemes from the Loan Fund to young people in ordinary secondary education. The majority assume that the Government will follow up this work as soon as possible and make the necessary proposals. The overall recommendation of the Committee is that Document No. 8:78 is annexed to the Protocol. There are other comments, and I assume that the various representatives will explain them. I would like to spend a few minutes explaining the view of the Progress Party, which also has the support of the representative Jan Simonsen. We believe that the system that exists within today's training law, and which – happily, in our opinion – is also made clear in the commentary version of the law, that there is no ban on advertising in textbooks and other teaching materials, is a good order, and we want it to continue. We can't see that it's proven that the amount of advertising in textbooks in primary and secondary schools in Norway is greatly increasing. We can't see that there's good research that can prove a comprehensive use. On the contrary, I have the impression, among other things. from school debates — in fact, in the last election campaign — that this is a scheme that is relatively unknown in schools, unknown to students, among others. because the possibility is effectively actively countered by school management and teachers who themselves do not approve of such a scheme. We want it to go on. We have also pointed out that, as most people know, we want a different structure for our school system, a structure with much greater freedom. It should be much easier to set up schools like other people than the public owner and run, and we will also do some structural measures in terms of funding, so that the money follows the student. It would also be quite natural for different methods and tools to be used to finance teaching materials, and we do not see that a reasonable use of advertising in textbooks, in primary or secondary schools can be a major problem – rather a good opportunity to obtain good learning material.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e1014	The Labour Party believes that the consumption and purchasing pressure on children and young people should be limited and prevented. The scope of advertising in society is central here. The arena for children and young people must have our attention. It's the school that's of particular importance. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, appears to provide a good analysis of the situation. They say that the growing-up environment is characterised by increasing commercialisation, young people becoming an increasingly important target group, and that today advertising funding is being received and used. They point out that the school should not become a marketing and commercialisation arena and that setting borders is important. At the same time, we have registered that the Parental Committee of Primary Schools is asking the authorities for measures to limit this development. Can we then limit commercialisation and advertising pressure in school? Can we try to create some free zones for the purchasing press and the consumption pressure on children and young people? Yes, if it is willful! In our opinion, it is urgent to set such limits, because progress is fast and, based on our assessment, in a negative direction. But it's just the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that draw a right conclusion. It would have been an important signal to ask for a law ban. Then we had the opportunity to get into the details of the treatment of such a law ban here in Stortinget. Now I'm not naive in the sense that I think it would have been possible, nor desirable, to adopt restrictions that mean that there will be a total ban, or that you should remove any advertising items in school everyday. In the case of clothing, we know that the students themselves are good representatives for the dissemination of advertising. There is also no desire to limit cooperation with companies on – what I want to say – the small element of advertising that can come in this context. But, as I said, this is about the most important element in students' everyday lives: textbooks and teaching materials that cover the most important parts of the curriculum, and that are used regularly. The Working Party, SV and the Centre also point to some negative consequences in terms of professional quality, opportunities for differences between schools and between different parts of the country, and that it can undermine public responsibility. Nevertheless, it is essential to limit the commercial consumption pressure against children and young people in the school situation. I have to admit that I did not have very great hopes for the Right and the Advance Party – yes, the Advance Party also says directly that this is unproblematic. It is actually beneficial for schools, and it is encouraged that schools should make use of it. Right in a more waiting and seeing attitude. But I must say that I am directly disappointed in the Christian People's Party. This is, therefore, about limiting the pressure on children and young people as consumers, and that must be a clear and clear question of value. I see that the value project launched by the Government with Bondevik in mind has just intended to find alternatives to commercialization, find alternatives to material goods, but the Christian People's Party chooses here to let development take its course. With the situation in today's school, despite attempts by the ministry to say that the most important picture in Norwegian school is that they have enough resources, the conditions in school are nevertheless such that they are struggling to get enough teaching material, they are struggling to get enough equipment. With the government's lack of resources at public school, it is obvious that there will be a pressure here to accept other sources of income, including advertising funding. This is a development that will increase to an extent and may fit into the plans of the Council of State for the privatisation of the single school. It is also obvious that students in high school who face high costs related to the purchase of educational material will more readily accept advertising funding, because they see that this will be a cheaper way for them. The working party was in the process of implementing a grant and loan scheme for textbooks in secondary school. We had put in 100 million. As a proposal for this year's budget, the aim was that we should receive free teaching material in high school as well. It chose the Government to cut, and it was supported by a majority of the Storing. Let me conclude optimistically: we take on seriously the common perception of the government parties that the school should not become an arena for marketing and commercialisation, and that at the next crossroads we can actually look forward to action and – as a result – ban on advertising in the main of primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e1033	The growth environment for children and young people is increasingly marked by increasing commercialisation. Children and young people are a very important group for advertising. These sentences are not difficult to agree with. Therefore, the school is an important venue for making young people aware of advertising and other commercial influences. Nor do we on the Right, as we have also said in our remarks, want the school to become an arena for marketing and commercialisation. It is important to limit the advertising pressure, especially in primary school, but also in secondary school. Limits are best used in the preparation of the good guidelines. The Training Act today does not prohibit advertising in textbooks, since there is no system of approval for textbooks. The right does not want any such prohibition. The good guidelines must be designed in such a way that the limits on advertising pressure and commercialisation can be set within these guidelines on the basis of the good judgment of each school. The fact that the school should not become a marketing and commercialisation arena should not prevent the development of close and good cooperation between school and business. We must not become so restrictive that there should not be any opportunity for local companies to give gifts to the school, whether it be with a small advertising logo on it. The government is working on the preferences of the Nyborg Committee on Grown-up Prices?. It is natural and, of course, that the questions put by the proposers are being considered there. From the right-hand side, we want to get back to the matter in that context. We know that this position from the Nyborg Committee has been in the ministry for a long time. The previous government, at the Ministry of Children and Family, did not promote the matter. Now it will come, and we await the conclusions that had to come there. The principle of free primary education is important. That principle must be fundamental and must also be taken into account in relation to whether and, where appropriate, to the extent to which advertising is permitted. It must be allowed to say that advertising-funded textbooks are currently available on a very small scale, and where they exist, it is precisely to make books cheaper — and perhaps even free of charge. I would also refer to the majority comment mentioned by a previous speaker on teaching materials, and the majority's assumption that the Government is following this up as soon as possible. Otherwise I registered the representative Bjørnstad's disappointment, even though the disappointment over the right was perhaps not the greatest. The starting point might have been that it wasn't that much to be disappointed about. I hope and expect that the representative Bjørnstad in school matters will experience new disappointments – perhaps to the delight of many of us! To conclude, right-wing guidelines provide a framework for marketing and commercialisation in schools, but we do not want to go back to the ban line. This should be regulated within the good guidelines, while we know that the scope is not large. Nor do we believe that it will be so big that it will be a problem. Otherwise, as mentioned above, we await the Government's conclusions on the suspension of the Nyborg Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e1059	The reason why we presented this Document No. The 8 proposal, as I said earlier, is that there is no ban on advertising in textbooks, neither in primary school nor in secondary school. This is a question of values. There are questions about, where are we? Where are we going? Where is the future? And how do we imagine the primary school and the secondary school in the future? The basis is children and the growing-up conditions of young people. The world has changed in recent years. The world has changed a lot since I was a kid and went to primary school. Commercialisation has increased. Advertising is increasingly and much more targeted at children and young people. Surveys conducted both in Norway and the Nordic countries clearly show that there is an increasing degree of commercialisation both in primary and secondary schools. Children are not able to receive the advertisement to which they are exposed. Young people in high school experience a huge slender press, a fashion press and a shopping press. Statistics and surveys show an increasing degree of both body fixation and eating disorders, especially among girls. There's a huge need in today's society to have an arena that's unadvertised, and that's free of commercial influence. Our Document No. The 8-proposal was not intended to prohibit all advertising in textbooks. In a note, we have also stressed that local cooperation with both cultural, business and local actors is very important for the development of primary education. There is now a huge need for the state to intervene and limit the impact of commercialisation in society experienced by young people. This is particularly important in view of the fact that the Stortinget has adopted a free principle in primary school. The responsibility to finance primary school and to finance textbooks in primary school lies with the public. It is a principle of value, and as was also the representative of the Workers' Party, I am also very disappointed that this proposal does not have a majority. But at the same time, I'm positive for a lot of the committee's points, that it's a commercialization problem, and that it's important that the school doesn't become a marketing and commercialization arena. I assume that the majority comments will be followed up by the ministry, and that they will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for decisions to restrict commercialisation in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e1074	Today, the Training Act does not contain an approval system for textbooks. It also does not prohibit advertising in textbooks or other teaching materials. Nevertheless, this question is an important issue for the Government, which is now working on the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee’s ‘Growth with a price tag?’. Here the Christian People's Party assumes that the Government also considers the questions raised in the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. For us, there are several reasons why we, as politicians, must have a clear view of advertising in school. One reason is the clear principle that primary public education should be free of charge. Another reason is that school should not be the same as other arenas, it should be marked by commercialization. That's why we have an opportunity here to slow down and reduce the commercial pressure on children and young people. They spend much of the day at school or with schoolwork, and it is precisely the school that has the ability to give students the skills and insight they need to understand and cope with the commercial pressure they are exposed to in different contexts. The school is currently less than many other arenas for children and young people affected by commercialisation. Nevertheless, there are many commercial players who are trying in different ways to gain access to school. Primary school should be ensured as a free zone of commercial influence and enhanced opportunities should be provided for the dissemination of knowledge and attitudes in relation to commercialisation and purchasing pressure. Several developments indicate that commercial pressure on children and young people will increase in the years to come. Today, we have limited instruments to prevent such developments. The school may be the only arena in children's lives where the public still has a great deal of room for action when it comes to preempting the growing-up environment. It's also a very important arena. Through the right to training in the Training Act and the development of a ten-year compulsory training, the State has taken on a significant responsibility for the quality of life and the growing-up environment of children. This requires a thorough assessment of all aspects of the school environment. It also applies to the relationship to commercial influence on this arena. It is important to develop national standards that provide schools with clear guidelines on such issues. The general rule of the guidelines should be primary school as a free zone for commercial influence. The exceptions to this general rule should then be defined. If different schools choose very different approaches on this issue, the differences in education provision could be large. Thus, the lack of national guidelines will trigger a pressure on those schools that want a restrictive line. With regard to advertising and sponsorship, it will be easy for some schools and environments to be more attractive to sponsors than others. This will contribute to greater differences in child services. The school has an important role to play in raising awareness of children and young people about the consumer society. Consumer knowledge is therefore an important topic for the school. Practising the critical capacity of students in terms of advertising, marketing and impact are key elements of the school’s educational work. Students must have the ability to reveal influence, as well as to understand why they are being affected. This work is important throughout the education cycle, but in particular youth and secondary education should take responsibility. I see that there is a difference between the need for freedom from influence from the age of students and the ability to think critically. On the other hand, I do not see any argument that the school — including high school — should make itself dependent on advertising in its training. We must never get into a situation where questions can be raised by a school's independence as a learning institution, or the ability to do its own priorities. In high school today, schoolbooks are being paid by students. I would like to remind you that the Cooperation Government in the Sem Declaration calls for a grant scheme to reduce students' costs to educational material. We should therefore have no need to finance the advertising of textbooks in order to reduce the cost to students. However, after hearing Mr. Sortevik's contribution today, I am more strengthened in the view that we need good guidelines that limit this with advertising in school. Blackevik makes political forces that want more advertising and sponsorship as part of the funding system for the future school. Then I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus, with the exception of the Progress Party, about setting limits on the advertising press both in primary and secondary schools, by developing good guidelines that help reduce this pressure. This shows the willingness to say from and will to use the necessary instruments. I am also pleased that the representative Bjørnstad has expectations for the Christian People’s Party. Here's what we want to do about the challenges we want to work with the Workers' Party. As you can see, today's vote and today's debate are a step forward in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-29.ana.ud1700e1095	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
