ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e35	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e40	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Inge Ryan, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e45	On behalf of Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I would like to propose a test scheme with minipol at public service offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e50	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e73	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn HøybrättenState Council Torild SkogsholmState Council Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e92	I will be allowed to ask questions to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. There was a cruel so-called honorary drop in Sweden two days ago. A father killed his daughter just because she was a girl and demanded his right to be a mariner. It could happen here as well. Old, patriarchal, human separatist and religious structures of power, which we recognize from the women's struggle also in Norway and in Europe, live in the best way in closed environments where culture and religion celebrate the human rights of these girls under the carpet. Girls and women are also alive in Norway. SV is quite convinced that neither auxiliaries nor integration policies are ready and able to help these girls or to reverse the heightened and unacceptable attitudes that exist in many of these environments. What will the Council of State and the Government do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e99	I agree that the killing we saw in Sweden – we have unfortunately seen cases similar to those in Norway – is a practice that violates both everything we stand for as a nation and is a practice that we cannot accept from foreigners who live in Norway or people who have different ethnic backgrounds. Clearly, our government believes that there is a limit to tolerance and diversity in relation to individual rights. It also means that we are concerned about the issues of coercion, related to violence. We know that at the moment there is an accumulation of women from the immigrant community at the crisis centres. We work in relation to strengthening the action plan against coerciveness, strengthening the action plan against sexual harassment and ways of addressing this with the immigrant communities we are in contact with. I would like to stress that all parts of the Government that are in contact with the immigrant environment underline the fact that our limit of understanding and tolerance is in violation of individual rights, and not least that in the cultural conflicts that exist between children and parents in the immigrant environment, we are in solidarity with the rights of children and young people. In the work on the Action Plan against Forced Marriage, which is under the Ministry of Children, a number of measures have been put in place to help people with problems. A number of voluntary organisations have been supported by auxiliary telephones and by staffing offices to assist people under threat. The Minister of Justice is working on measures such as: in order to be able to change the full identity and to obtain a new person number. Overall, this action means that it can make it easier. But it's a long way to go to get all parts of the public authorities to react quickly enough. Here it kind of helps not to get an hour next week. Here we need systems that are streamlined to help there and then, when, for example. Youths and women need to be moved out of their homes quickly because they are in a crisis situation that threatens their safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e108	I thank you for the answer and am glad that the Council of State sees that we both have to have completely urgent measures here to help people who are in acute need and come and ask for help, and have to look at the longer-term measures, not least those relating to attitude creation. Some of the things that are scary are environments that are closing in. Perhaps some of the most ghastly thing about young people walking in such environments, inside such strange religious schools, for example, where they are not given the opportunity to meet other kids, to meet other families living in other situations, to manage to get small networks that can help them even in an acute situation and to help change attitudes, and that can show that there are other ways of looking at women and girls than they do in these environments. The government will assess its policy in areas such as: are small private, strange schools where such attitudes can be allowed to grow further? Isn't it a point to break up such closed environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e115	Any school approved in Norway shall comply with the requirements laid down in Norwegian law, including: the requirements of the Norwegian Equality Act, in which they teach. In fact, a school should not be approved in Norway, whether it is a Norwegian school or not, but it cannot be assured that such questions are raised. In the past, too, the Minister of Church and Education has stressed this in debates here on this issue, and it has been underlined by all the representatives of the parties behind the Government's policy of offering and accepting more private schools. So I think we're going to ensure this through the requirements for school content. In addition, it is important to find contact points not only in relation to children but also in relation to mothers. One of the things we are now working on is the question of checking the Norwegian children's knowledge at the four-year check. We have a state secretarial committee working on the integration of children and young people. We're also trying to find contact points for the mothers to ensure better channels into the immigrant communities of the individual children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e122	There will be follow-up questions – Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e125	Clearly, clear and strong police responses are important. It is important to protect these women, and it is important to ensure a rapid response from the police when situations arise. But the police side is just part of this picture. It is at least as important to ask how we can contribute to a debate on attitudes and social views, how we can avoid attitudes that lead to such tragic events. And then my question becomes to the municipal minister: how will the municipal minister take the initiative for such an attitude-creating debate as well as all the reactions that we obviously have to put in place? How will she initiate a dialogue and debate in contact with the immigration environment in order to avoid the attitudes behind what we have so tragically seen here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e132	As I said in my first answer, it is that in all the contact points the Government has with the immigrant environment, the state councils that work on this – that is, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, that concerns me, and that is, the Minister of Justice – tend to emphasise precisely the individual rights that children and young people should have, and where our loyalty is in relation to these questions. That's what we're trying to stress in any context. And I think it's important to say that one thing is the Norwegian public debate. The problem is that there are many in our society who do not participate or join in the Norwegian public debate because they cannot even Norwegian, and therefore it is essential to hold the debate in the forums where we meet the immigrant communities. It's possible we're going to make a more structured plan to address it and meet these questions, but we've put this as a basic attitude in any contact we've had with the immigrant communities. I think we all have to be a little humble to figure out which are the best channels, precisely because we see problems, for example. with the fact that some people live in Norway, especially women who do not have Norwegian knowledge and do not participate in Norwegian society at all. [[President clubs]] It's a challenge for us to use... sorry, President! [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e140	Representative Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e143	For 15 years, the majority of the population have been talking about the enrichment of Norwegian society and Nordic societies through a significant migration of people with a completely different cultural background. The progress party has warned. We have promoted a lot of proposals to achieve a better integration policy based on the principle that Norwegian laws, regulations, rules and standards must also include those that have come to our country. We have tried to make them essentially adapt to Norwegian culture, Norwegian forms of communication, Norwegian ways of doing things, and show Norwegian respect, among other things. for women, respect for how to do things. All of this has been rejected. There's no reason to be amazed at the things that are happening now. It's been a warning against that. The majority of the population has been naive. Will the Government now take action in a different way and state that integration policy is to be based on compliance with Norwegian standards, rules and laws by all in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e150	The majority has repeatedly stated in all the debates that the Progress Party has also initiated here in this Chamber that Norwegian rules and laws apply to all who live and live in this country. There shall be no other legal practice for persons with a different background than for Norwegians. With regard to the issue of norms, I would say that there will probably also be many Nordics who do not feel quite well with all the norms adopted in Norwegian society. It is a very difficult enforcement principle. But that equality and respect for women should also be a basis for the immigrant communities in Norway, that is quite right. However, with regard to the word ‘norms’ – and we had a debate on this last year in Stortinget – I would like to say that it is a questionable word. For what are the majority norms, and how many in minorities in Norway will not be uncomfortable with some of the majority standards that have been used over time, for example. in relation to homosexuals in this society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e157	Before we move on, the President will state that he understands that the issue is extremely important, but will only be allowed to recall that the starting question, the main question that was raised, is linked to an event in our neighbouring country Sweden, and that this assembly helped to end the union between Norway and Sweden already 96 years ago. It's just a little reminder. The next follow-up question is from Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e162	The events in Sweden show the importance of strengthening both short-term and long-term interventions. I am pleased to note from the Council of State what is being done by the Government in both the short and the long term. Now there are a number of voluntary organisations and institutions that provide particularly important input by organising meeting places, culturally or otherwise. It turns out that there are far more applications for funds for such work than the one proposed by the Government in the 2002 budget and the majority voted. Will the Council of State take an initiative to stimulate even more of these different voluntary environments in the fight for greater tolerance and respect for Norwegian rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e167	We're going to follow up on both what we grant, that is, the distortion of the grants and the actions we grant, and the effect they have on the objectives we have on the individual items. Some work to create integration, create contact points between the Nordics and immigrants. Other organisations work with the very detailed assistance measures for people in crisis and conflict. And some work in relation to young people who need help and guidance, also in relation to family cultural conflicts. Any request for funding from the State may not be targeted in relation to the objectives to be achieved. I think it's important that we also have a certain priority, and I think that just the killing of honour in Sweden shows that what is now important, perhaps is to give priority to the measures that help people right in a crisis situation. In a way, we need to concentrate some of the funds and ensure that in the follow-up to the action plan we have had against forced marriage, which has affected this area in many ways, we take the good portions of the measures that have been funded there, and ensure that they continue more permanently, because very much of this has been on a project basis. And that's all, from the work of following them right in the social office to what the Minister of Justice does in relation to identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e174	Sign Eye - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e177	To avoid such tragic events as the one we are now debating, it is important that we succeed in our integration process. Today we have heard on radio that the labour market director reports that they lack tools, they lack jobs in Aetat, to get specifically immigrants into work. Then is my question to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to ensure that these who absolutely need to get work training and get to work are not going, but enter an environment where they might stay, without having to live in the state for the rest of the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e182	The government comes back in the spring, towards the summer, with proposals based on the NOU investigation on the law of introduction benefit. At the same time, we are going to add a key norm on how the introduction and integration work for refugees should be, where it also involves some measures for individual newcomers to introduce them better into society, so that they do not become social but get right into the labour market. Nevertheless, I don't think these broad measures are the most important to what was the main question. I believe in many ways that there are also many who are at work, which we have to confront with the attitudes. We have to work on the questions related to the view of women they have, and the fact that their family concept is very different from the family concept we have, because they kind of have a completely different social structure from where they come from. In addition, I want to remember what Gerd Fleischer from Self-Help for immigrants and refugees said yesterday on TV: there are a lot of different groups. It's not a religious question. They come from many different religious communities and from many different nations; people in Norway have also been exposed to these kinds of threats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e191	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e194	In our day, Stortinget conducted a very broad debate on the division of tasks between the state and the county municipalities. I have recorded that the municipal minister has stopped the process that Stortinget then initiated, by transferring the agricultural and environmental management from the state to the municipalities. This is clearly contrary to what was Storting's setup and assumptions. I allow myself to ask the municipal minister what basis the municipal minister has for stopping the implementation of what the Stortinget has provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e200	After the treatment of the Great Britain in our day, we have had a big choice that has changed the political majority in this room, which has laid the foundation for a new government, which has laid the basis for a government that has incorporated in its declaration of cooperation, the Sem Declaration, some principles relating to the issues of the development of the county. It says, among other things. that the further development of the county should not result in the county becoming an over-municipality. It also says that there should be no more bureaucracy. What we have done is that in letters to the statesmen and municipalities in November we have said that we are now putting this at risk, but that the aim and guarantee of the Government is to clarify that the timetable set, that is, on 1 January 2003, should continue. We have put it to rest because we need to go through the practical parts of the question of whether the transfer of agriculture, the transfer of the environmental protection department and the role of spatial planning have elements of the so-called over-municipal issue itself, which may require a reversal of the decisions taken. If those decisions are to be reversed, we have also been very clear that then we will come to the Stortinget with proposals on it, and then the Stortinget, based on the majority that is here today, will have to decide whether it agrees with the Government's assessment. The government has not finished this work, but according to the timetable on which all county councils and county councillors were informed, we have said that we will do that in February. Then they're going to find out how we think, and then the Storting must be able to decide about it during the spring. There is nothing in this that suggests that the timetable set by the previous government should not hold, regardless of conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e207	It's not right that there has been a change of political majority. The political majority behind the decision in ours is also a majority in the Grand Duchy today. I have also recorded that the majority in the Grand Duchy is determined by what you thought. The representatives of the Christian People's Party have very strongly stressed that they stand firm in the decisions made in ours. Ergo they stress that the majority stands firm. Therefore, there is still a basis for asking questions on what basis the Government and the Government believe that they should open up to a race other than that envisaged by the Storting. But this is not the only thing where we see it. We saw exactly the same thing in the discussion on district policy strategies. Then I am not just talking about appropriations, but what main strategies were adopted, where the Government in its argument argues for it as a minority in the Great Britain, the Right and the Advance Party, stood for in the spring, while it – or rather the Council of State – rejects that view as expressed by a majority. And once again, the question is, what basis does the Council of State have to go away from what has been the assumptions of the Biggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e214	The foundation is still that we have had a shift of majority in the Stortinget, and a government has been formed that has negotiated different solutions based on different policy programmes, and it is set out in the Sem Declaration. But as far as the budget is concerned, it is, in fact, adopted in the Storting. That means that what it was set up in the budget has actually received an undertaking from the majority, and that means that that matter should be clarified in relation to the question of the changes in appropriations for the district policy chapters. In addition, the tradition is that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs will come to Stortinget to explain the government's regional and district policies during the month of April/May, for which tradition has been established. Then you will see the whole and the breadth of the government's district policy, and get a discussion in the Grand Duchy that will clarify which political majority would be behind, and which strategies will be used for future district policy. But I don't think anyone from the Workers' Party can deny that we have actually had a government shift in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e219	There will be follow-up questions – Reidar Sandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e222	The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has now made good his or her view and the Government's view on the matter that is now being debated. I note that Ivar Østberg, as a member of the Municipal Committee, represents the Christian People's Party, until the Evening Post has expressed a different view of the matter that we are now discussing, than what the Council of State is now expressing. Østberg has simply stated that the majority of the population’s wishes should be followed in this case – i.e. transferring tasks from the county to the county municipalities. My question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is therefore: does the Council of State understand that when the representative of the Government informs of what he has done, confusion and frustration are created, and the municipal political figure for one of the two government parties signals a different view? I find that there is a great deal of frustration and confusion in the county councils about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e231	The President will state that there are no two-three government parties. That's three.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e234	I know that there is confusion in the county councils at the moment over the processes that are going on. I also think there are many other processes going on in the county councils that are linked to some discussing sizes and other processes, all of which are now based on the fact that one has to get clear about what the county council is going to do. I would like to remind you that in what we treated in ours, suggested among other things. The Christian People's Party was not to be given the opposition decision-making authority in the environmental field to the county. So they were not part of a majority who wanted to move that part of the responsibility to the county. So in terms of the picture the representative is now drawing from what that majority was, there were shades in those views. In addition, when you form a government base, compromises are made. Now we're working on the consequences of the compromises we've made in the Sem statement, and we're going back to Stortinget if we don't follow the Stortinge decision. And one more thing: It wasn't quite clear what the Storting decided in ours in terms of the consequences of the supremacy. The Labour Party claimed, inter alia: that it was not over-communed by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e241	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e244	There is now total confusion about the future existence of the county. On the one day the county councils will be assigned new tasks, on the other day they will be reduced, on the third day there will be notifications from the Government that they will be administered to agriculture and the environment, and on the other day the opposite is true. Does the Council of State not think that it would have been much better for all the employees of the county and for all the citizens who are receiving services from the county council, that we had already agreed – and it was signaled – that the county council should be closed down?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e249	If I had said that, I think I'd have gotten a bigger problem with a majority on the Biggest. In fact, there is a majority in this Chamber who have gone to elections to have a directly elected regional level. The government assumes that it is not a majority to shut down the county, but that we must work to find an administrative unit in the county that can function without it, among other things. is at the expense of self-government and democracy in the smaller municipalities – i.e. this over-municipal problem. Now I don't think the confusion is so big. A letter has been sent to the county councils and county councillors at the end of November which has clearly stated that the conclusion of this work will be published in February. That you are impatient to get the process going, I understand, but everyone has known since about November 26 what the process should be like. It's just about having some ice in our stomachs until we've sorted these issues we have. So it's like the Right Party really was to shut down the County Municipality. I see that there has to be a political process beyond the level of government and beyond the size of the parties that have a different program formulation, before it's time to discuss that question again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e258	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e262	State Council Victor Norman said in Steinkjer just after Christmas that the members of the government of Prime Minister Bondevik were required to say five times every morning: I am happy in the county municipality. This may indicate that there are a number of exercises in the government here that are demanding, and that you are almost approaching dressage to get this in place. So my question to the Council of State is, are you so mad and uncertain about the future of the county council, that it's kind of the result of what we're seeing now, when you're still having postponements? Or are you willing to give the new county municipality a chance to really become a regional political actor who is gaining power, authority and money to become the force that a majority in the Grand Duchy wants it to become?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e267	You don't get «permanent» deferrals. You've got one postponement, and that's what we're doing right now. Whether or not one is the ‘wool’ in relation to these questions: we believe that the decisions taken in ours were little specified. For example, in the two areas we are now talking about, agriculture and the environment, there are two sets of decisions. One is that much more of the authority currently in the county is to be delegated to each municipality. And there'll be problems again. Not all of the tasks currently assigned to the county must be transferred to the county. It's in the big shot, and that's what Stortinget asked for. We now need to sort out the tasks to be delegated to each municipality and the tasks to be carried in order to move them to the county. So the second question that pops up. If we say that the county municipality is not going to become an overcommunal, we have to make sure that it does not have a responsibility that makes it actually a overcommunal, that it becomes the one that says no and changes, for example. spatial plans adopted by a democratic majority of a single municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e276	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e279	Various input angles may be selected when following Storting's decision. The size has been clear in relation to the tasks of the county council — when it comes to continuing training, transport and the development of regional policies, and apart from the fact that there should be a different distribution when it comes to agriculture and the environment. Governments have opted for such insecurity around the county, both among the inhabitants, among the populace locally and at state level and among them. She has even managed to so insecure in the Christian People's Party. I asked her to confirm that there is actually a difference between what the big group of the Christian People's Party thinks, and what the Christian People's Party in government has come through, and that this is probably a example of the fact that the Right has had an impact on its positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e286	I would like to remind you that the issue of over-municipality was an important topic of debate when we dealt with the enlargement message last year, where it was stressed from several teams – which is the majority who have managed to move the environment and agriculture and give a greater role in land planning – that this was not to be an over-communal, that it was not to be given decision-making powers at the expense of individual municipalities. It's this kind of problem we're now going to go deep, because we've now come to the point of implementing this. When I entered the department, there were 26 follow-up projects linked to the different decisions in Stortinget. There was a lot left of the magnification we had last year when it came to detailed plans, and to see how this works. When three parties join the government, there are compromises on some comprehensive solutions, and they are enshrined in the Sem Declaration. Then we have to follow it up. And the two concepts that are important here are those that I have mentioned quite many times now: overcommunities and no more bureaucracy. It shall be part of the modernisation of society: [[President clubs]] We will certainly come back to this matter several times, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e297	The last is a prophecy that is reasonably certain. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e302	My question goes to the Minister of Health. I have learned that Health Sør has a sub-budget for the current operating year of nearly SEK 1⁄2 billion, and that healthcare companies in the region will have been told to adapt their operations for the current year to create a budget balance. In practice, it will result in a reduction in treatment capacity compared to the 2001 operating result, with an average increase in service production for hospitalised and outpatient patients of about 10 %. 4.5 pst. Can the Minister of Health confirm that this is the budgetary and operational situation in the current year for Health South? Further: Is the situation the same for the other regional undertakings? And is this not a very bad start to the state accountability reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e311	As the representative of Alvheim, I am keenly committed to getting a good start on the reform that the Stortinget has adopted and in which I have great faith to provide better health care for the population. I am basing on the budget approach adopted by the Stortinget – with the budgetary framework adopted by the Stortinget – but also on the assumption that, because of the uncertainty about the hospitals' economy right in the transition from one regime to another, we are going to have a full review of the operating budgets ahead of the revised national budget, so that the Stortinget is presented with this. We run health companies on the basis of the overall budget, as I have now described it. Furthermore, we guide them on the basis of what we have informed the Storting about is the latest available forecast of the development of activity from 2000 to 2001, and in a continuation of that level of activity. Hospitals are demanding to deal with this. It requires them to focus on their costs. We have asked them specifically to focus on the costs that do not result from increased patient treatment — which we do not want to hit — but on the costs that have created a higher cost increase in hospitals at the end of 2001, than the costs we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e322	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, an answer that still gives cause for concern from my point of view, as individual companies have to plan to adapt their operations to the approved budget that lies there. The increase in patient treatment in 2001 resulted in a total operating deficit of over DKK 1 billion. Of course, it is in the patient’s interest — and it should also be in the Government’s — that the increased service output obtained at the hospitals in 2001 is at least maintained in 2002. If the Government by its under-budget makes up for a significant reduction in the operation of public hospitals in the first year of operation with state ownership, this will inevitably lead to the hospital reform in trouble. None of us want to. Will the Minister of Health ensure that the necessary additional appropriations are provided for the treatment of the revised national budget for spring, so that hospitals will be able to maintain their treatment capacity at least in line with the 2001 result?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e329	We promoted the necessary additional appropriations in the autumn of 2001 – and adopted them here in the house – for the activity increase foreseen in 2001. I can confirm that we are now seeking to manage hospitals in the future, starting from the average activity level established in 2001. I can also confirm that we are coming back to Stortinget in the revised national budget, as we have promised, with a full review of the operating economy. There we will take the necessary consequences of what emerges from the complete review we are now making of the 2001 financial statements, which I have not yet seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e336	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e340	There have been great expectations for the hospital reform. In addition, looking at the enormous bureaucracy that is being built around individual enterprises — in fact, all enterprises, both regional and ordinary — I am asking myself whether the Minister of Health and the Government, and not least the Boards of Enterprise, is losing control and it's escalating all over the line. Will the Minister for Health confirm that there is full control over the number of employees collected within regional health establishments? Question no. 2: Isn't the Minister of Health afraid, with the development we see in this accumulation of employees in enterprises, that this will once again go beyond the budgets of hospitals, because these costs also have to be covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e347	I would like to claim that the representative Nesvik here is on wild roads with regard to the facts. It is not the case that hospitals’ administration is now escalating – on the contrary. The administration of hospitals from the regional health establishments, which have the primary responsibility for managing this, becomes significantly slimmer than it has been in the county municipalities. The information I have indicates that while the county authorities have used approx. 700 years of hospital management, regional enterprises will use less than 200 annual works. Then there is an important matter associated with this, and it is that at the time of the change of ownership the state has assumed the responsibility of the employer for these 700. This means that some of them are offered jobs in regional health companies, some in health companies, while many have found jobs elsewhere in the Norwegian community. Overall, I expect that out of this large conversion project we will see a hospital administration that is significantly slimmer than the county authorities have had, and that is my goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e354	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e357	The issue that is being addressed here is the economy of health businesses themselves. In conclusion, I would like to address another issue that concerns the evening post today, also related to healthcare companies, namely that a number of hospitals in Oslo are now struggling to have patients discharged from hospitals returned to the municipalities, because the capacity to accept pre-treated patients in the municipalities is lacking. This is especially due to a lack of health care coverage. Other measures are also missing, for example: well-developed home-based care. This means that health businesses cannot be seen in isolation. Hospitals cannot be seen in isolation, but must be seen in the chain in which they operate, and where it is important to develop other types of services that may also be more cost-effective, in order to get pre-treated patients out of hospitals, and to avoid unnecessary hospitalisation. So that means looking at the capacity, for example. in the future, care is also important when considering the hospital sector. Does the Minister of Health see these contexts, and does the chain also need to be strengthened on links that have to do with the municipality and the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e364	It is a clear objective of this reform that we should overcome unworthy waiting times and the corridor patient problem. We have today more pre-treated patients in hospitals than we have Corridor Asians. That means that it is absolutely necessary to focus on the question put by the representative, Mr Ballo. The answer to the question is multiple, but there are two things that are important. One is that we expand the capacity in the care and care sector, so that those who have completed the treatment at the hospital, but who need care, get proper care. The second is the cooperation between the first and second line services. In both of these areas, good interaction has been achieved in many parts of the country. In some of the municipalities, this is still difficult. I want to review these relations with the Minister of Social Affairs. We would like, among other things: look at the regulation regulating the interaction between municipalities and now the state enterprises in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e371	Ola D. Lukewarm – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e374	It's pretty interesting the last question that Mr. Ballo raised. An investigation such as: FAFO is behind it, showing that the large municipalities have more problems with recovering pre-treated patients than the small municipalities. It seems that this government just wants large municipalities. It doesn't seem that this is completely related. I would like the Minister of Health to comment on it a little bit, because in order to get patients processed out, it must be important that we have the right municipal structure as well. So a little bit back to the economy of health businesses. I have a written question to the Minister of Health about this with the closure of health companies and institutions, so I'm not going to take it now. But can the Minister of Health promise that there will either be more funding for health institutions before you put down any institution, or that we will get these matters to the Stortingen before closure? It might be interesting to hear. The government has a treatment guarantee for patients. But with as little funding for public health as we have today, which is also revealed by this round here now, it is clear that with such a treatment guarantee there will only be increased use of private hospitals and foreign treatment. Is there a proper form of health care for the future in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e383	The President will point out that parts of this supplementary question had a relatively distant relationship with the main question that was raised, but the Minister of Health is free to answer to the extent that he wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e386	I don't have time to answer all three questions, but I focus on the question of closure. I do not fully understand this strong focus on hospital closures. Today we need increased capacity and better use of the capacity in hospitals. I think it must now be important both for one and the other party in this room to focus positively on how we can use the new situation created by the hospital reform to make better use of resources. We have the opportunity to ignore the county boundaries within the health region, and we are now taking away the guest patient settlement. We have a new opportunity to streamline the free choice of hospitals and give patients more opportunities to choose, and the government will actually extend it to private hospitals and the possibility of foreign treatment when we cannot deal with treatment in Norway. This is the time of opportunity, and then I think it's the important thing, not to focus on all the constraints. As regards the question of: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e395	Yes. That's perfectly correct. We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e400	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport. For the last few weeks, state councils have been confronted almost daily with illegalities related to individual toll stations around the country. On the iron, where I live, it has our extra evil, and it seems that it's made all possible mistakes. I'm not out to distribute debt, but the Labour Party thinks we have to clean up. So I would like to ask some questions. We need to clean up quickly and efficiently in order to secure revenue, so that we can get better transport provision, and it is important to clean up to prevent more irritation among people. Then I have some point of view: It must be possible to exchange or get back money. Illegal tolls must be removed, and tolls that can only pass through a piece must either be changed to allow all tolls to run through, or they must be removed. My questions are: Will this happen, and when will it happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e414	We have a number of toll missions here in the country, and it's a well-known case that it's a way we've financed road development, which has been very much agreed upon. The answers that have been in the media lately about little flexible solutions in terms of payment systems are one thing that I'm very concerned about, because it's important when we first have this form of funding, that we find forms of taking in these incomes that are flexible. The reason why this is important is, of course, that individual consumers should feel good about having this kind of funding. It is the Directorate of Roads that has set out guidelines on how these forms of payment should be implemented in practice and has been working for a long time to find good solutions. What has happened lately, and what has happened on Jären, is that there has been an illegal additional charge. That scheme has now ceased. That means that it is not illegal to collect money where you do it, the way you do it. However, I am concerned that we should find out the best forms of payment in any case. That's why I've asked the Directorate of Road to make recordings of the flexibility you can have, and to meet the exchange needs of the various toll stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e425	I thank you for your answer. It's okay that now you have to get the exchange arrangements, and that the illegal fee is taken away. The council did not answer the question of what to do with the trees where it is only possible to use tiles. In addition, there are many of us – among others. I have done this myself lately, because I have had a rental car – which has paid more than we should. How will the Council of States ensure that those who have paid more than they have to – that is, if a person only has a $20 bill and has to pay $5, then one has not received NOK 15 again – will be paid back? I see that Professor Jakhelln says that these funds that are illegally paid cannot be used for the purpose, and he thinks they should be able to be given for a charitable purpose. I would like the State Council's comment on the last two issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e436	It is exciting to hear if the Council of State has any creative suggestions for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e439	I don't think I'm going to go into what charitable purposes might be suitable for this. In fact, I think it is important that we use the revenues at the tolling stations to finance the road projects that they are supposed to finance. In the cases where you have paid too much by paying this additional fee, the toll company involved here is required to pay back that money, given that you have a receipt as proof that you have paid this. The toll company has been informed of this, so I expect it to be followed up. Otherwise, of course, I believe that the income of the toll company should go to what it is intended that they should go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e448	There will be follow-up questions - Bjørgov Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e451	I think everyone in this room would see it as bloody unfair if they had passed a bomb with great will to pay, and experienced that it is the system that prevents, and then you become the one who is going to take the penalty. When there are political decisions behind the placement of roadblocks, I think it is reasonable to assume that most – from a popular point of view – mean that extra charges are public theft. It requires cash action to clear people's reaction, because the toll system requires a legitimacy of the population as an important financing of road construction. If we don't do anything, we'll contribute to political contempt. My question is, why can't the Council of States take over the injustice that people experience, and react immediately, because it must be reasonable to perceive what people now feel? And why can't you resolve what's wrong with the system today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e460	I'm a little uncertain about what kind of injustice it refers to – whether it's the toll system as such, or what it goes on. When it comes to public theft, I'm also a little uncertain about what it's referred to. I expect that it depends on the payment of an additional fee that has now been found is not in line with the law. An initiative has been taken. I've even later been corrected by the Council of State. The letter was not sent from the Council of State, but from the Department. written letter to the Road Directorate and asked that we now take a roof to find flexible payment forms that make the individual consumer feel that this is a reasonable way to pay. At the same time, I want to commend the Road Directorate and the State Road Service for the work that has been done over many years. We have toll stations with which we have very good experience, and where no complaints have been made on the payment system. So our challenge is to find good solutions where you're not satisfied, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e468	Thore A. Nistad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e473	Now the amount collected by the drivers in all toll stations has risen in astronomical $2.5 billion per. years, and of course the country is insatiable in setting up more toll stations. In all possible ways, everything should be tight, and now it turns out that there is a big discussion about the legality of a whole lot of these extra collections on side roads, about not having money, about fees and if possible. Will not the Council of State not continue this whole farce which has now been going on for a very long time, as well as open the bombs as it is now discussing whether or not it is lawful, and let the drivers drive there for free until the legality is clarified once and for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e480	The so-called illegality recently demonstrated in relation to these additional charges has already been removed. With regard to the principles of the use of toll solutions, to which I feel the representative here refers, these are built on local initiatives where concrete road investment is sought. These are local initiatives that have been supported by the Storting to be implemented. Therefore, it is important that we find effective ways to collect this money and implement these investments. In the case of opening the booms sideways: there are some places where the booms on the side roads are located just to get the income you need to build these projects, and that those who are to benefit from these projects are involved and contribute to their implementation. Then it's important that these side way-bombs are there too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e487	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e491	Governments are busy with people experiencing tolls as a suitable tool. Through the management of the national transport plan, any measures to reduce tolls were discussed in particular in three toll facilities with a high cost, including: The spring tunnel in Sogn and Fjordane, where it costs 150 kroner to pass with a passenger car. This prevents the development of decent construction and work areas and also prevents the development of local businesses. Will the State Council take initiatives to reduce toll charges at these toll stations, as mentioned in the discussion of the national transport plan, to a level that can be seen as reasonable for each individual user?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e498	With regard to the level of fares at the various toll stations, there is something that has been involved in the processes before they have been dealt with in concrete terms on the Stortinget, and it has also been in relation to the concrete projects that this is about. I would also like to remind you that it is an important element that once we have toll financing, we are able to find the most effective ways to get these funds. It is important both in relation to the other toll projects that have been discussed today and in relation to this specific project. It's hard to go back in time and say we're going to lower the level of fares, because that's what's been put into the financial premises for the projects. That's why it's dangerous all the time to come in afterwards and say that now we're changing them, because then the funding model is rocking. So I can't here and now just promise that we'll go into some projects, but I can go in and see if the income is in line with the assumptions that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e503	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e506	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Today, the county council is responsible for the continuing school. It means a holistic responsibility in an area, it involves an exchange of youth between city and country, and it is a system that works well. Then the Council of State has called for a pilot scheme in the big cities, where those who want to do so will run the continuing school. Today, many large city municipalities are unable to solve the tasks they already have. This applies, for example: ground school and kindergarten, and we see today a look-up in relation to care for the elderly. What is it that the Council of State here ignores a clear decision last year on who should be responsible and open up for such schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e515	I haven't opened up to try in this area. What I've said is that we're now working on a big city message. We have invited the eight largest cities in the country to a discussion and a discussion about what to address in such a big city message. One of the issues we have raised, and as many of the larger cities have raised with the municipal committee in the past, is the question of whether the generalist communism question can not be resolved a little, if you cannot look at the responsibilities in relation to the size of the municipalities. And we have said that we can do that, among other things. in order to give users one run. Then the school system is one thing, child protection is one thing, and drug care is one thing – so there are many of these elements inside it. This is a debate that we've started with cities, what we're going to take on elements and discuss in a metropolitan strategy. Then I have afterwards, after the meeting we had before Christmas, where we among other things. had been met with questions as to whether we can not start with these trials before, that tests must be carried out today under the test law adopted by the Stortinget. That means there had to be an agreement between all the parties, because in this context it would include the county, in order for them to be able to apply. Then the Minister of Education will be the addressee of that application. The Minister of Education has talked about a great deal of freedom for organisational forms and content in terms of trials. But that means you're creating an agreement on that. I assume that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Center Party, will not oppose it if it turns out that there is an agreement between the parties to have an attempt to get a uniform line. But what will happen to the big city announcement and the principles that lie there will be that it will come to the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget will also have the opportunity to agree or disagree with principles. What's going on now is a public discussion about whether this too could have been a theme to include in a big city message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e524	Sometimes it may seem that the Council of State is more concerned with raising debates than with resolving the tasks that the Storting has already said, for example. in the case of the division of tasks between the State, the Municipality and the State. I think it is alarming that in this matter she says she has not opened up for further testing. She went out in a wide-ranging interview in front of her meeting with the big cities, and announced that she was open to such attempts. The central party believes that it is important that the wide-ranging selection called the Task Distribution Selection, which has been for treatment in the Storting, is now followed up, and that we do not get new approaches from the Right side that need to be understood in one way, simply to undermine the tasks that the county councils have today. Rather, one must take the initiative to assign new tasks to the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e534	I think that an important part of a democracy is actually having an open debate and an open development of the policy to be pursued. In this context, a government council must also have the opportunity to say that these are thoughts and ideas that we should continue to work with, and then come back to Stortinget and see if it gets anchored. It has not been said at any time that I am opening up to try now, and it is quite essential. I have also said that this is something Stortinget must be treated at the necessary time. The point of intersection is when you get the big city message for treatment. Then we'll listen to all the different input in that context. But to say that we are not going to have an open debate when we do policy-making would, in my opinion, be completely wrong. The government has tried to put metropolitan issues and urban policies on the agenda, and then we must not lock ourselves to all the old solutions, but say that the development of such a policy must take place with local anchoring. Local anchoring means, therefore, politicians in these cities. There has to be an open debate, and then we have to participate in it – not lock ourselves in positions about how things should be. I think it would be harmful for Norwegian democracy if we cannot take the open debate. The decision-making process will always take place under the authority of Stortingen. Changes in task allocation must be the authority of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e539	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e544	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the amended overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Karl-Anton Swensen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is moved and answered at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs after question 27, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 2, from the representative Trond Giske to the Minister for Culture and the Church, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 27, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 3, from the representative Jorunn Ringstad to the Minister for Agriculture, will be taken up by the representative Liv Signe Navarsete. Question 10, from the representative of Ursula Evje to the Minister for Labour and Administration, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 12, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs the person. Question 13, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13 was answered before question 5. Question 14, from the representative Eva M. Nielsen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for the Environment has left. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Mr Thore A. Nistad. Question 17, from the representative of Mr Stensaker to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 19, from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Eva M. Nielsen. Question 20, from the representative Eli Sollied Överaas to the Minister for Transport, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 22, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 27, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. The first question to be answered after these changes is question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e586	This question, from the representative of Jorunn Ringstad to the Minister for Agriculture, will be raised by the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e589	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The average milk quota for suppliers in the Tine West market area, which includes Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and Sunnmaere, is currently approximately 60,000 litres, or 12 dairy cows. The Minister of Agriculture has said that use of 13-14 dairy cows should not have the right of life in the future. How will the Council of State develop agriculture in the West and in the country otherwise and meet the objectives of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 on safe food, cultural landscapes and bustling with the major structural changes proposed here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e598	I have not said that use with 13-14 dairy cows does not have the right to life. What I have said is that it is not possible to build on a structure based on 13-14 dairy cows. There has been very limited structural development in milk production overall over the past 20 years, giving milk producers little room for action. Good income opportunities are essential if people want to invest in agriculture. In order to ensure future recruitment to milk production, I therefore believe it is absolutely necessary to make the current quota system more flexible, so that more people can increase the income base. Different options are now being explored within the milk quota marketing system, which may provide increased adjustment opportunities for manufacturers. In the light of this investigation, changes in the quota system will be considered in the future agricultural settlement which, in general, could increase the adaptability of milk producers. Recruitment to the industry is a prerequisite for achieving the major agricultural policy objective of a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. The time has come to increase the scope of action of milk producers in order to ensure the production of the social tasks of agriculture in the future. Some structural developments mean a slight reduction in the number of milk producers. I believe, however, that this is absolutely essential in order to get qualified people to invest in the industry. A worn-out farm apparatus and new requirements for livestock rooms have created a significant need for investment in the industry, as well as measures to meet this need are necessary to give young people faith in a future in milk production. In the case of investments in new operating appliances, it will be low cost-effective and forward-looking not to build for a slightly larger production. Today’s capacity in Norwegian dairy farming is largely based on investments in the 1970s, and we should not base new investments for the next 20-30 years on the same structure as that for which investments were made in the 1970s and 1980s.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e605	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Governments say in an interview in the nation that the size ratio of our dairy has been fixed since 1984. At this time, the average milk quota has increased from 56 000 litres to 70000 litres, and more than 12000 milk production has decreased. Does the Minister of Agriculture not see a commitment also to the average use in order to ensure the possibility of investment and further operations? It is such that the topography limits the amount of use that you can use. in that part of the country from which the Minister of Agriculture comes. Will the Minister of Agriculture ensure that the channelling policy will remain in place in the future, and that those who take over will, in addition to milk production, like to see development opportunities for further operations in combination with other agricultural industries? There is no certainty as to what the Minister for Agriculture actually means. Therefore, I ask: Will the Council of State work for an income development in agriculture that is such that today's average consumption in milk production will also have room for investments that ensure future operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e616	Let me first say that it was precisely – with an accurate record from the rapporteurs – what the Minister of Agriculture actually said from this speaker, which makes the questioner today manifest with an untruth in his question, because it is precisely the structure and the future and the ability to remain in the milk production that is all my business. What should concern the questioner and everyone else who is concerned about these questions is: What happens to milk production if no more are going to renew an operating appliance? It is the silent death of milk producers in rural areas that the Minister of Agriculture fears. It is necessary to provide action spaces for the renewal of an operating appliance. All the experience of the agricultural economy over all years has shown that, when it comes to going on the big investment as a new operating appliance, a new operating building, is really, the volume has to be slightly increased for the individual. The calculations say that, and also the reports from the counties now say that this stops because you don't have the opportunity to plan for a slightly larger production. That's what I want to address, and it says in the Agriculture Communication that the Senter Party also contributed to providing a few years ago, that it is necessary to make small structural changes in milk production in order to be able to get new impetus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e623	I thank you for your answer. In the setting set by the nutrition committee of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, it has been said from the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right Party and the Progress Party, that in order to maintain and develop sustainable agriculture, the promises of the agricultural agreement for investments in traditional agriculture should be increased. Note that there are no attached conditions for larger units. Before the election Sponheim answered such a question from one of the trade unions in Hordaland: ‘Left considers that society must be willing to pay for a decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use and multi-faceted operations. This means that one must be willing to provide more for small uses than we do today." Apart from the fact that the Left has engaged in government cooperation with the Right, what other substantive arguments are behind the changed attitude of the Minister of Agriculture towards small-scale agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e637	That's exactly what I'm following up on. Today we have a structure with an average of 13-14 cows, and then it varies from 1-2 to maybe 200. Very many of those who need to renew their apparatus must have an economic basis to do so. Very often, the use of an eight-church must be able to increase to 12 or 14 in order to defend an investment. Today it is impossible because the quota system locks the volume or size between milk producers. This is what the Government wants to do to ensure that there are opportunities for initial investment and investment, and that is what this policy is all about. It is also stated in the big message that the questioner uses, and that the centre party was also behind it. A new structural change in milk production is needed to maintain milk production in the districts of Norway, and that is the government’s policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e648	‘The use of the free choice of hospitals is still very poor and significant treatment capacity, both in public and private health services, is not used. What can the Council of State do with this in the short term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e655	When I, as Minister of Health of the previous Bondevik government, promoted the Patient Rights Act, there was a clear expectation that the right to free choice of hospitals would lead to a better overall exploitation of the treatment capacity. That's also my clear ambition now. The right to free hospital choice started as a trial and voluntary scheme in some states and regions in the 1990s. In the early days, the exchange of patients between the counties increased, but the increase was relatively modest. My assessment is that until now, patient flows have been limited by county boundaries and guest patient settlement. In addition, it has been far too much possible for hospitals and some hospital departments to act as if they own their patients. I assume that the hospital reform, which also involves a kind of removal of county borders in healthcare, will change this. Organisational and structural measures do not solve the problem alone. It is also about raising attitudes in the health sector, and it is not least about reaching patients with information on rights and options. The following conditions shall be capable of producing changes, even in the relatively short term. Firstly, I would like to remind you of the Government's message about making better use of the treatment capacity in the private sector, and that free hospital choice should also include private hospitals. However, this requires a change in the law that we have been working on. I would further point to access to information as a key prerequisite for a successful system and for the real choices of patients. The following information systems are in progress: 1st@item: inlistbox In the case of a green telephone number, please provide, inter alia: provision of a general information brochure on the scheme and information on waiting times for certain treatments and procedures in each region. The scheme is linked to regional information offices that cooperate on the overview of offers across the country for those who want it. It is reported that regional offices have 15-30 daily calls in the health region of South and East, a few fewer in the other regions. 2nd@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the Hospitalväll.net website is established on behalf of the Ministry of Health. The website presents waiting information for a selection of investigations and surgical interventions as well as other information to help patients and referral doctors when they want to avail themselves of the right to free hospital choice. The website registered 45000 individual users last year. I base my assessment on the use of these measures that we will see results in the short term. We are now working to establish a national waiting time centre and free hospital choice. An important objective is to be able to provide faster and up-to-date information for patients who wish to exercise the right to free hospital choice. The unit shall at all times give a precise picture of the need for hospital treatment, the availability of hospital capacity in Norway and the availability of waiting times in all disciplines. We are also in the process of establishing systems of electronic hour ordering for examination or treatment in hospitals. Four pilot projects have already been launched under the auspices of the new Social and Health Directorate. The first electronic orders are assumed to be in progress during this spring. Electronic hourly ordering is part of a national health information technology strategy and shall be carried out via a national health network. The system is assumed to be fully operational in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e685	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I find very positive and interesting. I hope that this can give the results that are necessary, and I look forward to it. As I see it, it must be part of the decision-making process to ensure that patients receive treatment where the treatment capacity is present in the system. Will the Minister of Health intensify the decision-makers that it is their duty in the context of their patient consultation to ensure that patients are referred/introduced where available, in agreement with patients? This applies to both public and private offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e692	The answer is yes. I fully agree with the representative Alvheim that the permanent doctors and inpatient doctors have a clear responsibility to obtain information and to advise their patients on the possibilities of shorter waiting times than at the hospital that is closest to the geographical area. It will be followed up. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the hospital reform provides opportunities to make better use of the overall capacity and competence, and I have put a clear pressure on the hospitals in relation to following up these possibilities. Health Mid Norway, for example, has already conducted a monitoring of waiting times and available capacity at its hospitals and will implement measures to make better use of them. It shows that the reform is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e699	I thank you again for the answer. Unfortunately, it is not enough that the Minister of Health and I agree that the decision has a responsibility here. With amazement, I have registered an opinion from the new president of the Medical Association, Hans Kristian Bakke, who points out that the decision maker does not have his own fare to apply to the patient admitted to hospital, also in the context of free hospital choice. I believe this is a hair-removing statement. In this case, it cannot be intended that, in addition to the consultation tariff, the decision should also have been paid for each regulation granted by the doctor in relation to the patient, including an application for hospitalisation. After the lucrative financial agreement that the deputies have obtained, I find it unheard of that the deputies should also have special tariffs for all the things they had to do in connection with a consultation. Does the Minister of Health agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e706	I have not registered this statement from the new president of the Medical Association, but on a general basis I would say that some of the purpose of the fast medical system is for the decision-maker to take full responsibility for his patient. In my opinion, they are well paid for that with the schemes that apply today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e711	We're now going to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e718	This question, addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e721	I have the following questions for our Minister of Social Affairs: ‘The period of session of social security services/advisory dentistry is long-term for Eastern folds applying for the coverage of dental expenditure on public health. The procedure is unnecessary bureaucratic and heavy redundancy and far more extensive than in the case of medical treatment. Although sick leave has worsened the situation, the duration of treatment is three months with full staff. This creates frustration. Will the State Council simplify legislation to reduce treatment time and resource savings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e730	I am dealing with the distributed scheme, which shows that I am the one to answer this question on behalf of the Government, because this is under my responsibility. As the representative Hedstrøm points out, the length of the procedure for the coverage of dental expenses by the social security system has been extended in Eastfold. The Rikstrøgdeverket has confirmed to the Ministry that an improvement action has been taken to bring about a clear reduction in the duration of proceedings. It shall not be more than four weeks, which is in line with the requirements of the Rikstrøgdeverket for the duration of proceedings. The representative asks if I will simplify the legislation to reduce treatment time and resource savings. Proposals for simplifications of social security benefits for dental care have been at public consultation. I intend to introduce significant simplifications at the same time as an extended reimbursement scheme for patients suffering from periodontitis will enter into force later this year. Simplifications shall reduce the number of individual cases in which an advisory dentist must give his or her assessment. This will include, inter alia: multiple benefits will be provided as unconditional contingencies. Such benefits may be provided as reimbursement without the prior approval of the social security office. Simplification of legislation on social security cover for dental expenses could also result in reduced treatment time and resource savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e741	This was very joyful. The Council of State says that simplifications ‘should’ reduce the number of individual cases, not ‘can’ or ‘bars’. I think that's reassuring. That this happens at the same time as we get a reimbursement scheme for patients suffering from periodontitis – this is, by the way, a proposal that the Progress Party has promoted and achieved a unanimous increase – is in line with what is available in many Western European countries, and it will help to reduce social security bureaucracy. I have studied a little in other countries, including a. in Sweden. There are flexible systems for this, and it has worked very positively by the fact that patients have not waited long. You want to look to e.g. our neighbouring countries when developing these new procedures and incorporating several issues into unconditional obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e748	First of all, we are now engaged in implementing what the Storing has decided to extend social security benefits in the context of dental treatment. Then we will do it in a way that contributes to simplification, administratively and for the user. On a general basis, I am concerned that we are making good proposals for simplification both in this and in other parts of the responsibility of social security for health care and health care reimbursement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e753	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e760	‘The Altapost on 11 January 2002 describes uncertainties regarding the coverage of treatment costs for dialysis treatment outside hospitals as practised by Alta Health Centre. The offer is therefore in danger of being closed. [[also the sitting!]] Several health ministers have praised the ‘Alta model’ and the organisation of a decentralised specialist service for the population. Will the Council of State contribute to the follow-up of money with the rose?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e767	At Alta Health Centre, a dialysis unit has been established. Last year, the Finnish County of Finland applied to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for funding the dialysis unit via the effort-driven financing scheme. The application was rejected. Intervention-driven funding is, as you know, a system for patient treatment in somatic hospitals. Neither Alta dialysis unit nor Alta Health centre is approved as a somatic hospital. In Alta Health Centre, a hospital is located. Dialysis takes place in the hospital's premises. Hospitals differ from hospitals in patient composition and services. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001 it was shown that the Ministry considered integrating the specialist health service part of hospitals into the ISF scheme from 2002. It turned out that this was not a satisfactory solution because the cost structure of hospitals differs significantly from the cost structure of hospitals. In particular, hospitals have less costly patients than hospitals. On this basis, the Ministry decided that such a change would not take place from 2002. In addition, I have to mention that it seems that the so-called ISF Codework is generally not suitable for use in hospitals. The ISF scheme is adapted to the activity of the country’s hospital, and this activity differs significantly from that of hospitals. It was therefore granted 5.1 million. SEK for the operation of hospital facilities in Finland in 2002. These funds have been invested in the allocation to Health North. Some of these funds should be used to finance dialysis carried out at the Alta Hospital. The Ministry is now working on financing solutions, including: in relation to the border crossing between the specialist health service and the primary health service. There are several issues that need to be clarified before a permanent financing scheme is in place. Contact has been established between the Ministry and several municipalities for the purpose of developing demonstration projects. At Sel Sickeheim in Oppland County, a two-year satellite dialysis project was launched in the summer of 2001. The project shall be evaluated on an ongoing basis. Experience from this project will provide a basis for the funding solution for hospitals. In its 2002 supplementary budget, the Government announced that it would be working on a review of the longer-term solutions to the financing mechanism of the specialist healthcare service. We are now considering putting down a sample to propose solutions in this context. I want to make sure that the question of the funding of hospitals will be addressed in this investigation and presented to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e780	As the grass grows, the cow dies. I understand that the investigation work that the Minister of Health mentioned here will not be completed on 1 January 2003. It will not be possible to maintain the dialysis offer in Alta in such a time perspective without clarification of the funding mechanism. And a lot of what's described here are purely technicalities. What has been done in Alta is to do a new job of crime that allows for a reduction of social costs and a reduction of the burden on the individual patient by allowing traditional hospital treatment to take place outside the hospital premises. Here, therefore, patients are spared considerable suffering by not having to travel to the Regional Hospital in Tromsø three times a week, reaching the University Hospital in North Norway. The treatment takes place locally, and specialists in urology and skilled personnel are available. This must be the model with which the Minister of Health should be involved and take initiatives to implement in the future, and then one should risk, through the slow pace of bureaucracy, that this offer dies. Shouldn't the Minister of Health quickly get hold of the matter and get it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e785	The President is in doubt as to whether dying cows sort under the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e788	I've taken hold of these relationships. I am referring to the fact that because you did not get an ISF-based scheme for hospitals, you have been given an earmarked grant to the hospitals in Finnmark that Health Nord has the opportunity to use against this in my opinion the sensible measure. But I would like to think that the representative Ballo, too, will agree that going through the relationship between the entire hospital funding, the funding of the first line service and the social security funding of healthcare is something that can not only be done in relation to a single case at a single hospital in a single county. It's a big review that we're now starting, and my purpose of it is, among other things, to obtain a more streamlined financing facility. We have a chance to do that when it's the state that finances both social security and hospitals. But the representative Ballo has to give the Minister of Health some more time to do this in a thorough and proper way so that the system can work for the whole of Norway, not just for one municipality in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e793	I leave the dying cows. The Ministry’s letter of 28 August 2001, in response to the desire to secure funding for dialysis, argues that it is organised for home-based dialysis so that several patients can choose home-based dialysis rather than go to hospitals or satellite devices to receive treatment. By satellite units, you obviously mean an offer something like what you have in Alta. But there are two very different treatments. It's about peritoneal dialysis, that is, treatment in the abdominal cavity, instead of blood purification, a treatment that is otherwise completely impossible to perform in a home. So it's clear that the answer given here is a kind of answer where you haven't gone into the problem and say that it's really hospital treatment, but then close to the patient's home, so that you can save the patient both for suffering and society for unnecessary financial costs. And once again, isn't it just the kind of models that you've drawn out in different contexts, and that the Ministry, the Government, is supposed to be the first to grab hold of to make sure they're passed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e800	Probably it is. I was not a health minister when that letter was written, but I can say on a general basis that I am concerned with the type of flexibility that the representative Ballo here calls for. The rejection is a refusal to include this treatment in input-based funding. We didn't get that done. Then you have given a earmarked grant to hospitals in Finnmark that the regional health agency can use to finance such a dialysis offer, until you put in place a complete system that is actually linked, and that's what I am responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e808	‘The debate on children and advertising has recently been held in the media. This time the debate was mainly about children and toys. Instead of focusing on this, we should focus on how the advertising produces children and young people. Advertising is increasingly body-fixed, and many of the models are portrayed as small women and men twisting and twisting in most of our TV channels. Will the Council of State do anything about such advertising spots that obviously focus on the body and sex of children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e815	The marketing law, which applies to all forms of marketing, prohibits acts contrary to fair marketing practices. Advertising that particularly sexualises children and young people could easily be regarded as persistent and contrary to good marketing practice. In its assessment, the Consumer Ombudsman, who supervises the law, has inter alia: emphasised whether the models are young, and also on the degree of body focus. So there is today a law that makes it possible to intervene against this kind of advertising, and the practice of the law by the Consumer Ombudsman is strict. Advertising, on the other hand, largely reflects trends in society and not least in modern culture, such as: movies and music videos. The issue of the sexualisation of children and young people must therefore be addressed in many contexts. Legislation on the content of advertising is one tool, but it is also important that we have a general debate to engage parents, teachers, those who design the advertising and other adults who can play a role. The issue will be addressed by my Department, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, as part of the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee's inquiry into commercial pressure against children and young people, which we now have to deal with in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e827	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Children are produced and treated as small adults with obvious sexual attributes. Pornographic productions are used in teenage magazines where the reader group ranges from 10 to 15 years, and where it is encouraged to have an experimental sexual life. In the last months before Christmas, we saw in marketing that it is everywhere, from clothing to mobile phones, the same trends. There are certainly violations of the marketing law, and improper violations of several UN conventions. My question to the Council of State is: why does no one intervene when you obviously break laws and conventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e836	I share the representative's concern about this problem. I have not had direct contact with the Consumer Ombudsman in this matter, and it may be that the Ombudsman has intervened in these individual cases. I can at least, based on the question and the information that came up on the follow-up question, contact the Consumer Ombudsman and pay particular attention to the fact that this problem has been raised in the Stortinges Question Time today – because the law is actually good and does not prevent an intervention in this type of case. But as I said in my first answer, we should focus on this also in other areas, and we will follow this up in the handling of the Nyborg Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e846	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Refers to Aftenposten 14 January 2002 where three municipalities in the north-east valley will not be able to improve the effectiveness of child protection through aggregation on grounds of law. The municipalities of Alvdal, Tynset and Tolga’s initiatives in the field of child protection show that they take seriously the government’s signals on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector. What will the Council of State do to enable municipalities in the north-east to provide the best possible assistance to children and families in crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e855	The Children's Protection Act leaves the municipalities free to organise child protection adapted to the other organisation of the municipalities. However, the law obliges all municipalities to have a child protection administration with a manager who is responsible for the tasks under the law. It is only this Chairman who, in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Office, may take decisions in, for example: emergency situations. Therefore, the background to the requirement to be an administration with one head in each municipality has been given priority to users, who are entitled to clear and orderly responsibilities in the field of child protection. The requirements of the law also ensure that all municipalities have a device for caring for vulnerable children and young people. In my opinion, many municipalities, and perhaps in particular the small municipalities, will be able to carry out their tasks in a better and more efficient way by establishing cooperation arrangements with other municipalities. Nor does the Child Protection Act prevent extensive cooperation between municipalities in the field of child protection. The municipalities are free to share professional resources and can, for example: have common personnel on the investigator’s side. Many municipalities have established such intermunicipal cooperation. There is also nothing wrong with the fact that several municipalities share e.g. to a manager if they wish, so that he or she is employed in a certain part of the position in one municipality and the rest in one or more other municipalities. However, some municipalities wish to participate in more extensive intermunicipal cooperation. This may, for example: assume that a municipality transfers the authority and responsibility for the protection of children to another municipality, or that several municipalities in cooperation – as in the case we have heard of and as the background to the question – establish their own intercommunal activity, which is given responsibility and administrative authority across the municipal borders. This would be contrary to today's Children's Protection Act. I am open to the fact that cooperation of this kind can also be useful and will therefore initiate work to explore the possibilities of amending the Child Protection Act at this point. Such an investigation must be carried out in cooperation with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Such an investigation and any changes to the law will, of course, take some time. However, municipalities that are interested in starting such cooperation now may apply for trials under the Test Act. In my view, such attempts could also provide useful experience that could be included in the assessment of whether the law should be amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e866	I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I am sure that the signals that the Council of State has now given to the North-East valley will be received positively, because it is that these are small municipalities, and they will be able to serve a lot, not least professionally – which will benefit users – to have extended cooperation. It is this way – and I am not just attacking the sitting government – that all parties in the Stortinget have a common responsibility for some rules and regulations that have made it difficult to think creatively. We want the municipalities to have maritime rights and to think according to the needs of each municipality. That's what's important. And when the rapporteur in Tolga says that they cooperate in many fields and want even more cooperation if it had not been for a rigid regulatory framework, I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e875	As a relatively new state council, I have been out in a number of county municipalities and also received a lot of input from state officials who are just saying that in the smallest municipalities we often have problems, for example. related to the adoption of decisions on individuals. And it also makes the question the representative asks very interesting because the need to be able to cooperate better is quite great. A little bit of the case. It is the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that will decide on applications for tests after the case has been submitted to the Ministry of Trade, which advises or does not. It is also the department that carries out the professional assessment of the desirability of the experiment. In the case of the three municipalities that are listed here in particular, I know that they have not submitted any application for tests yet, but they have been in contact with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs per. telephone and received positive signals back on this type of experimental activity. So we're going to hope that the case will work out for the best of these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e884	I'd like to follow it up, because -- it might have been a misunderstanding, what do I know? – they did not feel that it was so easy to change this. But now the specialist council says that she can recommend this to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and I can promise that there will be an application quite immediately. This with child protection legislation is very special, because even if you are going to be close to your clients – I have worked in the field of child protection – we know that it can often be difficult to have too much proximity to the people you might have to take negative decisions about. So it is also important to have a support device for professionals working in the field of child protection. I feel that the Council of State is now opening up a pilot project up in the north-east valley, and that of course there can be a basis for changing rigid rules that prevent innovation, creativity and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e893	Law changes, of course, take time, but experimentation is a little faster to deal with. When this matter, as I understand it, comes to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, we will have it in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and, of course, evaluate it in the light of the needs of the municipalities, without me from the Chair of the Storting as well as can yell yes right here and now. But I share the representative's opinions on the importance of child protection, and how important it is that we cooperate across borders, both locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e905	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Access restrictions in herring fisheries have resulted in a very difficult situation for a number of fishermen along the icing coast. This applies to those who have traditionally fished land and are now excluded from herring by the way they have chosen to implement access restrictions. What will the Council of State do to correct the unfair bias that these fishermen are exposed to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e914	In order to ensure acceptable profitability for fishermen, it is necessary to restrict access to certain fisheries, including herring. The Ministry of Fisheries issued a hearing note on the possible restriction of participation in the fishing activities of the coastal group for Norwegian herring on 24 September 2001. The note was sent to the departments, county councils, public offices and business organisations in the fishing industry. With the exception of the feedback from the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team, the response received in the Ministry’s consultation note did not raise any significant objections to the facts in the consultation note. The regulation on access to the fishing activities of the coastal group for Norwegian herring was therefore largely adopted in line with the consultation note we had sent out. With regard to the criteria for qualifying for future participation, the same requirements have been applied to vessels fishing with purse seine, purse seine and land seine. The owner must have participated on his own vessel in one – I stress one – of the years 1998, 1999, 2000 or before 24 September 2001. I can also remind you that in a previous question hour I informed that complaints are being dealt with continuously in the directorate, and that for example it is. were dealt with 50 out of 55 complaints related to herring in general, 14 of which were rejected. As is known, herring migrates from the West Fjord and down to Møre in winter and spring. Thus, the fishermen in the trombone counties have had the opportunity to meet the requirements for future participation in one or more of the four seasons. Since mid-December, I have received several letters from municipalities in the South and North Trondelag. The letters show that the fishermen in Trøndelag have come out poorly in relation to the closure of the coastal group’s fishing for Norwegian herring herring that we have undertaken. It should also be noted that the herring migration pattern has made it difficult for herring fishers in herds to fish herring during the herding period. I understand these problems, and it is not unknown either in herring or in other fisheries that this occurs. However, when the fishing authorities regulate the exercise of and participation in the fisheries, it is necessary to provide that all Norwegian fishermen are treated in the same way. That's why I see it as difficult to put in place schemes to remedy the situation of fishermen in Trøndelag, thereby giving other conditions to this part of the country, without making the scheme applicable to the whole country, with the consequences it will have for the intention of doing so. Thus, as I see it, it is not appropriate to change the criteria for future participation in the restricted group in the coastal group’s fishing for Norwegian herring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e933	I must say, it is a pity that the Minister for Fisheries is not willing to look into this problem, which I see as a very specific problem in the sense that it has not lacked the will of these coastal fishermen to qualify in the years that the department has set as a qualifying period. However, the migration pattern of herring has resulted in the absence of herring in the area during the years set by the department as a qualifying period. It's a special problem that's hit them along the Trøndelag coast, which now feels that the herring is on its way back, but they're being shut out by fishing. It is also publicly recognised from the fishing teams that this group of fishermen appears unfortunate, that they are in a special situation, and that they are many coastal fishermen who are, in fact, full-year fishermen, who are now being excluded. Although the minister says that it is difficult, I would nevertheless hope that he can look further at this issue as a special situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e940	I recognize that any closure of this character can, of course, cause problems for some groups that are in a special situation. And the migration pattern of herring, of course, helps to make parts of the coast come out worse than others. However, it is worth noting that when herring has migrated from the West Fjord and down to Møre, one has also had the opportunity in Trøndelag, though perhaps not to the same extent as other parts of the coast. So in this consultation round, we have tried to listen to the signals that have arrived. The recommendations I have received have been unambiguous in implementing the system we have now put in place, with the exception of the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team, which opposes the further closure of coastal fishing fleets. When Norway's Fiskerlag dealt with this, Fiskarlag Mid-Norway, which includes South-Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag, was against it on a general basis. Moreover, I have emphasised that the South-Trundellag County did not have any comments on the hearing note, and the North-Trundellag County actually did not provide any feedback on the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e949	It does not exactly serve Nord-Trundellag County as an honor – I fully agree – that they do not give back any answers. I am concerned that the issue of the closure of publications is a problem separately. There may be different opinions about whether it is right to close the publications, as one now suggests for herring, hay and sieving. But what I'm concerned about here is the very special problem that I think these coastal fishermen and the traditional fishing especially related to land not being exposed to. I see that it is difficult to put in place schemes that can create precedents for other parts of the country, but my point on this issue was that for coastal fishermen in Trondelag and for those who have driven the traditional land not-for-all fishing – and many of them are full-year fishermen – there has been a problem that cannot be solved by going further to the sea and fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e956	After the strong request made by the representative Arnstad, I am – and I hope I do not create more expectations than it is on the basis of – willing to re-examine exactly this with land use. But I hope that this attendance does not now create too much expectations! I'm holding on to the position we've taken, but I'm willing to review the land use and the special circumstances that the questioner says have made it particularly difficult for just land use in this part of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e965	I hope this can continue as well! ‘On 17 January 2002, the Westålen wrote that the Minister for Fisheries ‘will release the grip on the trawl fish’. Newspaper shows that the Council of State has stated that it is only a matter of loosening up some of the laws and regulations in order to improve the profitability of the industry. What changes is the Council of State thinking about the universality of the trawlers, and until these changes are made, will the Council of State follow up the obligations of universal service as they apply today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e974	The system of universal service obligations is essentially linked to fresh-fish/round-frozen trawlers and the so-called small trawlers when these vessels are owned by fishing industry companies. The purpose of the supply conditions is to ensure that the raw material which these vessels take up from the sea shall fall to the fishing industry and thus ensure employment and settlement in the districts. The system has been shown to be appropriate. The fishing industry, including trawling and fishing industries, has changed radically over the last few years, not least when it comes to ownership. The system of delivery conditions has been shown to function badly in line with these changes in ownership ratios. It is therefore necessary to look at the arrangements in order to see whether they can be passed on in their original form, whether or not the original objective can be better achieved with changes in the terms of supply. The previous government created a ownership selection to evaluate parts of the law, and the selection will also look more closely at the supply terms scheme. I want to see the Ownership Committee's assessments and recommendations before I draw conclusions. The problem is very topical, and I would like to contribute to clearer attitudes than has been practised by the authorities in recent years. Nevertheless, I would say that universal service is not valid for a particular place, with the bonds it brings with it, probably cannot continue. Should a premium profit be paid – and I would like to do that – neither the fishing industry nor the shipowners and crew are interested in the fact that the raw material is not delivered at competitive prices. And strict bindings, of course, affect the pricing and therefore also the income of fishermen. Obligation to supply raw material to a larger region may give rise to a necessary competition for all parties. That's one of the options. If this is enough, it's hard to say about it now, because as I said, there's a thorough review in a ownership selection, and I think it's reasonable that we're waiting for it. The important thing for me is that the raw material fishes with the above-mentioned trawlers are to be delivered in more defined regions and, as far as possible, to be further processed in these regions. On the specific question of what I want to do while waiting for the Ownership Selection, it is to answer that existing delivery conditions will be followed up in line with the practice that has been followed by several of my predecessors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e985	I have to thank you for the answer. The last answer was interesting, because the practice is that the concession terms have not actually been followed up by the department. We have a situation where municipalities are in conflict with different fleet teams because they do not deliver according to the concession terms. This has not been followed up by the ministry in repeated calls about it. As the Council of State said, these conditions are about ensuring stable access to industry, and that's why we have trawlers in this country as a whole. The concession conditions relate to the supply and production of raw material both by certain installations or by certain municipalities. It becomes quite absurd that it is actually more profitable to deliver frozen round fish to a freezer hotel in Sortland than to deliver fresh fish for processing and production on plants in e.g. My home municipality, which is Bø in the West. It seemed to me to be an absurd problem, and it says a little about the salary in the industry, which the Council of State is so concerned about. Would the government council like to make any changes to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e996	Whether it's absurd, I'm not going to give up my answer. This has to do with market forces, and we can agree that even the Storting can get short in that way. This is also a significant matter of recruitment to fisheries, of being able to obtain a potential gain. And then there must also be competition for the raw material. It is true that there are several conflicts related to these vessels in which municipalities and enterprises are involved. When I say that I want to follow the practice that has been, that means that I am dealing with individual matters and assessing each case according to the circumstances that are associated with it, until we have received the thorough assessment that the Ownership Committee provides. I hope that both the Storting and the Government agree that if we first do something about it – and it is necessary to do something about it – we should have the best possible basis for it. When the Ownership Committee configuration is available, I will consider several considerations. This applies, inter alia, to: how to combine the consideration of a fishing vessel with a time-share ownership structure, for this intervenes in it. It is also necessary to assess the need of industry for fleet renewal, external capital and capacity adjustment as well as the needs of the rural industry for the supply of raw materials. So there are several relationships that will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1009	The Directorate of Fisheries carried out an investigation into compliance with concessional conditions in 2000. The study showed that they were not followed to a large extent. In Finnmark, more than half of the trawlers don't deliver where they're supposed to deliver. I refer to an article in the magazine, the newspaper's holiday magazine, last Saturday, and I refer to an article in Today's Business yesterday that shows that this issue is highly topical. When the Council of State came to grips with the profitability that it oversees the goal of Norwegian fisheries policy, I could imagine – it is certainly not appropriate – asking whether he is aware of the other three objectives that Stortinget has actually seen for Norwegian fisheries policy, i.e. resilience, jobs and construction. Wages and salaries are one of four goals, but the Storting has never said that this is the ultimate goal. I will challenge the Council of State on the following: If the Council of State implements the changes he wants, does it see that this might undermine the other objectives of Norwegian fisheries management that Stortinget has seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1018	Firstly, lack of profitability is the biggest threat to recruitment and to maintaining the housing pattern. If we don't create profitability at the fisherman's side, that's the biggest threat. So I can't promise to exclude this desire and the requirement of profitability, because if we were to follow the questioner, it would be the biggest threat to settlement along the coast. Then I agree that the delivery conditions over a long period have not been sufficiently followed up, but I hope that I get credit because I had not arrived in the department before I got hold of it. I think we should have patience until we get the necessary basis that is likely to come during the summer, namely the analysis and assessment of the Ownership Committee, and then we take the thorough review so that we may get a new practice or agree to maintain the current one. But we have to take inwards that there have been dramatic changes on the ownership side, on structures, since most of these delivery conditions were given to boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1035	This question lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1041	‘In the 2002 State budget, the Government proposed to remove freight subsidies on petrol, diesel and kerosene and price subsidies on certain fruits to North Norway. The Labour Party was against this, but the Government went into partnership with the Advance Party, and thus was cut off. In our opinion, this is very regrettable and will lead to increased gas prices in the districts and more expensive fruits in North Norway. Will the Council of State do anything to counteract the negative effects of the decision taken during the harvest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1048	The freight subsidy scheme for petrol and diesel and the price subsidies to North Norway was terminated from 1 January of this year. The reason why we removed these grant schemes was not reluctance to the districts, but it was reluctance to take measures that do not work well in relation to the objectives set for it. Experience in recent years has shown that the freight subsidy scheme for petrol and automotive diesel has not had the desired effect on regional petrol prices. Price surveys carried out by the Competition Authority show that price differences are greater than those resulting from different freight costs, inter alia. as a result of varying levels of competition in local markets. The studies also show that price differences may be greater within the individual counties than between the counties. The average amount of cargo subsidies for the whole country was approx. 11.5 ear per day. litre, equivalent to 150-200 kr per. the year of an average failure. I find it difficult to see that this in itself would have the dramatic consequences that have been outlined. It can be mentioned that of the more than 2,000 refuelling stations we have in Norway, less than 1 pst. of the stations within zones which provided support of more than 30 øre per. liters incl. VAT It should also be noted that the 2001 petrol tax was reduced by DKK 1.21 per tonne. litres actually including VAT. The diesel tax has been reduced by about the same amount. These reductions clearly exceed the price increase which may result from the cancellation of the freight subsidy scheme and involve reduced fuel costs for businesses and consumers throughout the country. I would also like to remind you that the government of Stoltenberg, in its 2002 budget proposal, proposed halving the freight subsidy scheme for petrol and automotive diesel. The scheme with special grants to North Norway has also not been very effective. It only covered a limited number of products – fuel oil and kerosene, certain varieties of fruit and milk – and the subsidy rates were relatively low. The territorial importance of the scheme has been modest. For fruit, the maximum subsidy rate was SEK 1,25 per tonne. kg approx. 6 pst. of a selling price of 20 kroner. The lowest grant rate of 35 øre was less than 2 pst. of an equivalent selling price. Whether this type of price subsidies help to mitigate the consumer’s price level is uncertain. The scheme had a similar design for a number of years, and it has not been given that prices would have been significantly higher if the grant scheme had not been there. By this I mean to say that although there are single examples where the termination of the grant scheme can give unfortunate results, district policy is very little effective. This government is committed to implementing a district policy that actually works in relation to the districts. This means that it is completely different from shipping subsidies. It's not least about the location of state activities, which we're going to take a power cap to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1063	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He was also concerned that the Stoltenberg administration had halved the shipping fee. It had gone through, and the Stoltenberg government made that regulation so that it would turn out better where it had split most before. So there you got a better overview of how the system really was. But I don't think the answer helps with the actual conditions. The price differences for petrol and diesel and fuel oil increase significantly between the central lines and the edges. In Bismo, Oppland, the price has increased by 31 cents per cent. liters, and in Vega in the North, it's actually gone up by 60 cents. I hope the Council of State sees this as a two-sided problem affecting both consumers and local gas stations. In particular, I think that the Bondevik II government should not talk so much about competition in the districts, because while removing the freight subsidy, they also removed the food funds for local small businesses in the outlying municipalities. The question is then: does the Minister of Labour and Administration think that it is reasonable for people living in the districts to have an extra cost of petrol and diesel?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1074	I mean very strongly – and so does the Government – that people living in the districts should have the same opportunities as those living in the central districts. The gas price is a very small part of the possibilities, and that is why we have said that we need to see the regional policy in the context. We need to get a district policy that better tackles the problems in the districts. This is why we have announced – and will implement – a full review of the regional policy instrument, with a view to making it more targeted. In addition, specifically in the case of petrol prices: as the representative knows, a Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals by the representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, for a self-financing freight balancing system in line with the proposal of the Bondevik I Government. It is clear that we will look seriously at all the proposals that come from Stortinget, and we will also consider this proposal. But I want to repeat: our goal must be to have a district policy that tackles the problems, and gives people in the districts as good opportunities for development as what we have at our core. But then we have to look at the whole, and not at the price of a particular product.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1081	I thank you again for the answer. They say that this is a small part of what matters, but many small parts add up to a large part, and that means a lot. I think this is a grip on the districts that are also involved in saying that you almost want more centralization. It's a big centralization press today. The price quote for a normal family with normal use of a car – which has to use a car, because there is no collective offer – is now about approx. One thousand notes a year. If we go to Finnmark, the Bondevik government has also removed the special supplement for fruit and milk as well as the loss of the shipping allowance. This will amount to NOK 1-2 per cent. kilograms for fruit and 20 cents for fruit litre for milk. I don't understand how the Bondevik II government can say with a good heart that this is betting on the districts. I wonder, then, whether the Council of State will in the future conduct price surveys over time to control the effects of the budget cuts, which are largely affecting the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1091	It is clear that we will follow price developments in all parts of the country. We do that all the time. But let me add another thing. I personally think that it is a bit funny that we are so terribly concerned about the price of this one item. I have not heard anyone who has proposed the creation of a self-financing or state-funded freight balancing system for groceries. Wouldn't it have been as natural as having it on petrol? When I mention that example, it is not to suggest that we introduce it, but to focus attention on what is central, namely that there must be living conditions and development conditions and conditions for people living in the districts that are important. Our goal is not for people living in the districts to live their lives by driving a car. They should also drive a car, but they should also have the opportunity to do other things. That is why we need to look at the whole of the measures we are implementing for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1101	This question, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister of Transport who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1104	« through its BA companies, Member States own a number of properties distributed throughout the country in the post of Norway and the NSB. Municipalities, on their part, need to dispose of land for further urban development and housing. What will the Government do to ensure that municipalities have adequate influence over the disposal, where appropriate, of the properties by way of a future sale?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1111	The entry Norge BA and NSB BA are separate legal entities. In accordance with the applicable organisational form, the Management Board is responsible for the management of the respective company and for the company’s economy. In the establishment of the BA companies in 1996, the properties of the former management companies Postverket and NSB were transferred to the new companies. This was an important prerequisite for the establishment of the opening balance sheet of the companies. For the NSB, these non-operational properties were included which were not linked to the operation of the railway infrastructure. The commercial development of the properties of companies is a prerequisite for the defence of the financial obligations of companies and thus for the provision of good services to users of postal and rail services. The sale of properties is assessed by the companies on a commercial basis. I do not see it as appropriate to oblige companies to sell properties to certain buyers or to subsidize any buyers. This would not be in line with the chosen management systems of the companies. The needs of individual municipalities for different purposes must be met by regular purchase or by cooperation with others on decent solutions. It is the task of the municipalities to run local planning and point to where they want housing development. In the Planning and Building Act, municipalities have been given an authority they can actively use to fulfil their housing policy tasks. It will provide a good framework for dialogue between municipalities and companies on the future exploitation of properties. The item has completed a comprehensive process of the sale of properties in the last year. 60 properties have been sold, and 10 properties – mostly terminal buildings – are still in a sales process. The post office has informed that all the property agents involved in a separate letter have contacted the relevant municipalities and sent sales prospectuses for the properties that have been sold. The disposals have taken place in line with the disposal instructions for public buildings and have been advertised in both the local and national press. The bidding period has been two months, so that municipalities should have had time to assess the offers. The post office has stated that Sunndalsøra has purchased one building to be used for administrative purposes. The post office has also been in dialogue with other municipalities, without this having resulted in sales to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1124	I thank you for your answer. I am particularly concerned about housing policy, which the Minister for Transport has simply looked through, because I think there are too few homes, it is too expensive to establish for both young people and others, and the rental market is too small – especially there are too few cheap rental homes. The state owns, both through its BA companies and by being just a state, large areas, among others. here in Oslo, which I represent. What I want is a greater chance for the municipalities to do long-term planning. And then it doesn't keep up with these two months that the Minister of Transport here is talking about. You then need more time to re-regulate and use this in a different way if you want to sell it. My question then is: would it be possible for the Council of State to instruct the Post and the NSB to notify the municipalities of any sale of their properties in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1133	I see absolutely the challenges that the representative Holmås points out. I'm also concerned that we should give the right and good framework conditions that we should do to both Posten and NSB. They have important social tasks to take care of. And to take it in isolation, it would lead to a deterioration for these companies if we went into the solutions that the representative here points out. I would also like to stress that the Post and NSB, in the event of the disposal of properties, must follow a procedure that complies with the competition rules of the EEA Agreement and with specific State aid guidelines. The EFTA Surveillance Authority – ESA – has developed such guidelines, which we need to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1142	Now I have to say that I do not know the details in relation to these guidelines and how this would turn out when selling properties from NSB and Post. My point is: now that we own such large plots, either through NSB or others, it's not my idea – even if I would like to – that you should sell this cheaper to the municipalities so that they could run a proper policy. It would weaken the NSB and the Post financially, and neither the NSB nor the Post need less money than they have today. But what I'm talking about is, for example, granting local authorities the right of pre-emption by means of the type of large plot sale, and providing local authorities with the opportunity to plan properly, because they need a longer period of time. It is not that the local authorities are suddenly starting to re-regulate an area like this. are regulated for commercial buildings, for example: dwellings, in good time in advance – only at random. So my question is, could you imagine a pre-purchase arrangement, or could you think of giving municipalities the opportunity for more long-termity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1151	In the case of pre-purchasing rights, I indicated that this is not an opportunity to give. I believe that the municipalities always have insight into the properties that are for sale, so that you have the opportunity to be on the track in relation to the purchase here. So there's nothing in the way that municipalities that have both the ability and the interest to get in and buy have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1158	Question 13 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1172	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment, who is directing it. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1180	This question, from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1183	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Norway, roadside tolls have been set up more and more rapidly to finance road construction that drivers have already paid through taxes to the country. In VG 7 January d.a. it appears that toll companies, in addition to the fee, charge high fees if the driver does not bring money. This often applies to drivers who do not know that there is a toll station in the area. Will the Council of State ensure that these unfair charges are removed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1192	The issue has, as you know, been submitted to the Ministry of Justice, which considers that there is no basis for charging additional charges for customers who cannot pay exactly the amount of the coin dispenser, and therefore the additional fee scheme is considered illegal. I am aware that the Road Directorate has attributed all road offices with a view to abolishing the additional fee system immediately. I also assume that drivers who have passed through the toll station until that time are obliged to pay the toll, but not the additional fee. In such a case, if the driver has already paid the additional fee and can prove it by receipt or other means, this may be reclaimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1199	I am so pleased that something has been done about the additional fee. In the VG it says about another, similar case. Now there's going to be green light for coin machines, but it'll work like this: if you have too much money, but coins: put on, accept receipt, and demand the amount back on the nearest Esso station. If you only have notes or too few coins, click on the button and thus get three days suspended payment. This almost reminds me of a parody. But it goes on to say that, according to the Minister for Transport, it is not so incomprehensible. Does the Minister for Transport really think that this is a useful and modern method for drivers in today's Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1206	My department has written to the Road Directorate asking for an assessment of flexible payment arrangements. I'm counting on this for an answer. What the representative here refers to is a form of flexible solutions. Actually, I don't think it's incomprehensible. And what's an important aspect here, which is important to the consumer, is that we need to find solutions that are reasonable as well. Yes, it is important that both the consumer understands the payment system and that there are flexible solutions. But it is also important that we keep costs down, because I would think that the consumer is not well served that we value the toll collection with, for example. manual payment, which is very flexible. So here we have to have a balance. But my goal is to find flexible, good and understandable solutions for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1213	I get almost completely exhausted when I hear some of the answers. The state councils come from private business. It's really just going straight out on the street or anywhere, you can get a product purchased by a machine or by other means. The private sector already has many simple methods, including: receive the exchange money back. Why, then, should it be so difficult to get into bureaucracy all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1218	Then I would be delighted to refer to the system in Trondheim, where we have such flexible solutions. There are very few registered – personally I have not registered anyone – complaints on the system in Trondheim. It's very flexible, and it's made up of over 20 unmanned stations. So it's possible to get such solutions. As I said, the relationship with the individual consumer is important, and we're going to find the best solutions, but we have to be aware that we're not going to digest the solutions. That's my challenge, and I'm going to work for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1226	‘The tender documents for traffic on the Short-Range Network for the period from 2003 onwards are currently being finalised in the Ministry of Transport. The criteria for this traffic are very important to users. Can the Council of State confirm that the current standard with regard to seating capacity, toilet and pressurised cabin will be maintained and will it require aeroplanes to have or be able to install equipment to use satellite navigation and equipment to view other aeroplanes in the air and to have advanced ground proximity warning systems?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1233	As the representative Hansen refers to, the Ministry is now working on the finalisation of the tender documents for the next tendering period, starting on 1 April 2003. In accordance with the tendering procedures, the Ministry may not state in detail which tender requirements will be submitted before the tender is published in the spring. However, I can inform you that the Department attaches great importance to maintaining a good transport offer at regional airports. With regard to technical requirements for aeroplanes, I point out that these are determined by the Air Safety Authority. The call for tenders will generally require aeroplanes to comply with the applicable safety requirements of the professional authorities at all times. I am aware that some development work is being done in the areas to which the representative Hansen refers, and I will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1240	I would like to thank you for the answer, but I would like to stress and add that the questions that I am raising here have a bearing on what the offer is going to be on the short-range network, and what kind of offer the people in the districts are going to have. These questions raised a great deal of debate at the last call, particularly in Northern and Finnmark. I assume that the Council of State has noticed the hearing opinions that have come from Northern Ireland, from Sogn and Fjordane and from Finnmark, which are the major states in this area. I would like to ask again the question whether the Council of State can confirm that the standard and the offer we have on the short-range network today, as a minimum, will continue during the next tendering period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1247	Of course, once we have worked on this tender process, we have received many input from different regions that have this offer. These are the elements that we're obviously looking at. We are also concerned that we should get a good offer for those who live in these areas, and that we should at the same time get as reasonable and good a quote as possible. And that's important, because we're using state funds to buy these services. It's a bet we're going to continue, but there are many things that suggest that the solutions can be more expensive in the future, cf. what is happening in aviation in general. It's a big challenge for us. But my goal is to find the best possible transport solutions on the regional network through this tender process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1262	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1268	‘The bomb on the old E18 between Sande and Holmestrand in Westfold is set up to act as a denial of road users on the new E18. Since the tolls are to finance the new E18 further south, the local population in Sande and Holmestrand municipalities, which use this road as their local road, should have the opportunity to get under a discount scheme. Can the Council of State envisage meeting the problems and costs incurred by the local population in such a bombing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1275	The new motorway between Gutu and Kopstad, which was opened in October 2001, provides advantages for both transit traffic on the new E18 and local traffic on the old E18. Toll collection also on old E18 ensures that road users make the most of their use of the new motorway. The result is a significant decrease in traffic on old E18, to the joy of both residents along the road and local road users. It is therefore not unreasonable for local road users to be involved in the financing by means of a bomb charge. Today's location at Ødegården on the municipal border between Sande and Holmestrand has been considered the most favourable for local traffic. This was also decided upon by its treatment on 22 December 1997. The bomb does not affect internal traffic either in Sande or in Holmestrand municipality. There has already been a derogation from the bomb charge for the households in the Sande south of the boom, so that they can freely pass the boom when they are going to the municipality centre. There is no payment for mopeds, motorcycles, passengers and buses on the route. The tariff and discount systems comply with the tariff guidelines and with the possibility of discounts of up to 50 pst. in the case of the purchase of a piece. The most frequent users thus obtain the most discount. There is a general pressure to obtain special arrangements and toll waivers. I do not see any particular reason why traffic between these two municipalities should be granted special arrangements in addition to the current discount system, especially given that traffic conditions have improved since the E18 was converted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1284	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have heard here today and read in the media that the technology that is now available for exchange and card use is going to be used gradually at the unmanned toll stations in Norway. But what about those road users who are disabled, who under no circumstances can afford to pay, exchange or use cards? We also know that the traffic base is increasing, and before today, the Minister for Transport has said that it is important to think that you should have to earn at the toll stations. But when the traffic base increases, mostly throughout the road, could one not then intend to give disabled people just free access through the toll stations in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1291	I consider this to be a new issue that is not linked to the concrete bomb on the E18. But in the case of people with disabilities, there are guidelines for this. The case has been dealt with in Stortinget, where it was found that disabled people would be exempted from payment by bombing, but not by other toll stations. Now I did not sit on the Stortinget then, but the background was enough that the principle was that all road users who benefit from a project should be involved and contribute to the funding. But then you chose to give this exemption in case of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1296	I also thank you for that answer. But is it not that the Minister for Transport could take the initiative to extend the system of bombings to the other bombs that we set up now and in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1301	When it's still such that we're going to get the fastest possible down payment of the projects we're going in and trying to finance in this way, it suggests that we should have the most to pay. Unless there are very special circumstances that make there are groups that should be exempted – and now I'm trying to be general, because there are other groups that could also be considered special in this respect – the starting point is that all road users who benefit from a project will pay. To the extent that there's reason to make special arrangements, you get back to it. You can do that with a basic approach, but it will also be relevant when designing the specific projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1309	This question, from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Eva M. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1312	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘When the Stortinget dealt with the migrations in South Varanger, the majority in Stortinget underlined the importance of a rapid improvement of the aerodrome. This was seen as a prerequisite for developing the Kirkenes area as a bridgehead towards north-west Russia. How will the Government follow up the Storting assumption of a rapid improvement of the aerodrome?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1321	There are two issues involved in the extension and improvement of the airport. There is a new area of despatch and revalidation of the runway. Any revalidation of the runway is suspended pending clarification by the Air Safety Authority in relation to new requirements for the design of large aerodromes. This was briefed in the 2001 budgetproposal. In the same proposition, it was stated that the planning of a new terminal building at Kirkene Airport would be continued and that it would be presented at a later stage. In spring 2001, the Swedish Aviation Agency developed a pilot project for a new area of despatch at Kirkene Airport. The project was estimated at about 200 million. 2001-krona. Due to the general economic situation, the Aviation Administration chose not to proceed with the project at that time. In the Air Safety Authority’s infrastructure plan for 2002-2005, actions are prioritised as having a direct safety significance and resulting from regulatory requirements. On this basis, a new dispatch building at Kirkene Airport is not a priority in the infrastructure plan. In the autumn of 2001, the Swedish Aviation Agency received a request from the municipality of Sør-Varanger for the municipal shooting of 30 million new dispatch buildings. kr, which the Swedish Aviation Agency rejected as it would not be able to complete the project within its own budget. These funds were part of the state conversion appropriations allocated to the South Varanger community after the state sold out of AS Sydvaranger. Now, as I know, the amount is $30 million. kr intended to be used for the advance of new dispatch buildings, now redisposed to non-residential funds. In particular, due to a significant decline in traffic since September last year, the financial situation of the Aviation Agency is currently very strained and a number of investment measures will need to be carefully reviewed. the significant dividend requirements such as, inter alia: the previous Government of the Swedish Aviation Agency has also contributed to the failure of the Swedish Aviation Agency to give prior priority to this terminal development. Any future expansion of Kirkene airport must, in my opinion, be seen in the light of developments in air traffic and the economic situation of the establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1338	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I am aware of the limited investment framework of the Swedish Aviation Agency, but I would like to remind you that in its budget proposal for the current year, the Labour Party Government proposed to remove the dividend requirement for the Swedish Aviation Agency and to give the Swedish Aviation Agency greater scope for action. I am also aware that the Board of Directors of the Aviation Agency must make difficult priorities and that it is a tough job they have. But I would like to remind you that a majority at Stortinget has made a significant contribution to the priority of this airport. The majority said in the handling of the South Varanger case that it is of great importance to the development of the South Varanger community that the airport is being repaired. The decrease in the number of passengers may also be related to the condition in which the aerodrome is located. And I want to repeat: I expect the Council of State to confirm that the view of the Storting will be followed up, that is, with rectification.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1347	Of course, that's the basis. But now it is that the Council of State does not have the opportunity to improve the economy of the Aviation Agency as such beyond what we have done through various measures for the current year, including: the air passenger charge has been removed in the hope that it will result in an improved financial situation for the Aviation Agency. In this way, the Aviation Agency will have the economy to make this type of investment. The labored economy of the Aviation Agency has implications for all types of investment, so it is important that we now think about safety first. I know, and I'm going to focus on the future, that it's a challenge for the terminal building on the Kirkenes, and I'm going to have it on, but right now the Aviation Administration's economy is the way it is, and it's a challenge for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1354	I believe that on the basis of what was said when we dealt with the South Varanger case in the Stortinget, it is not possible to treat the Kirkenes or South Varanger airport in the same way as the other airport developments and priorities are dealt with. You have to look it up against what was said in connection with Innst. S. No 289 for 1995-1996, when we dealt with the South Varanger case in Stortinget. And there the majority say they see it. ‘which is of particular importance for improving the infrastructure in the area. A rapid improvement of the port, the road network including the road link to North-West Russia and the airport, considers that the majority is a prerequisite for building the Kirkenes area and South-Varanger as a «brohead» towards the north-west. Once such clear leadership has been laid in Stortinget, I expect the government to follow them up, and that the churches will not be treated in the same way as the other planned expansions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1364	Then I would like to remind you that the previous government – where the Minister of Finance came from Finnmark – did not find room for any additional appropriations for this measure over the State budget, which I now feel is almost being asked about. The previous government couldn't do that either, even if you had a better economy in the Aviation Administration. The framework has not changed in relation to it. The airline has a much more strenuous economy now than they had then. And that's how this kind of expansion is going to be done over the Aviation Agency's budget. I just want to remind you that no other investment measures of this kind are being implemented now. Now, priority is given to safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1376	‘The coastal road network of the three counties south of More and Romesdal has night-optic grids in the form of night-riding. When you cross the borders of More and Romesdal, there will be an abrupt stop for six hours when you arrive at the holiday rental in Folkestad, which is the first of four regular routes that are night-riding. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the main road network in More and Romesdal will also be navigable with standards and route provision as applicable to the rest of the coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1382	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1389	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘For more than six years, two weekly transport flights have passed from Harstad/Narvik Airport in Evenes to Japan with salmon. This link has been of great importance for the farming industry in the north. In the autumn, these flights were moved from Harstad/Narvik Airport to Gardermoen as a result of EU environmental requirements. What will the Council of State do to bring this important air transport back to Harstad/Narvik Airport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1398	The export of Norwegian fresh fish to Japan is mostly carried out by the Russian carrier Aeroflot on behalf of Norwegian fish exporters. As a matter of routine, Aeroflot has so far been committed to flying from two to four times a week, depending on the season, and flights usually take place from Banak, Evenes, Trondheim and Bergen airports. The flights have often had Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, as a starting point, but with varying frequencies. Aeroflot has used Russian built cargo aircraft of a special type for this fishing cargo. However, this aeroplane type belongs to the category of aeroplanes that will be prohibited at aerodromes throughout the EEA territory as from 1 April 2002 due to noisy engines. Aeroflot has therefore – as we know – chosen to go to the acquisition of DC-10 cargo aircraft in order to continue its cargo operations in Western Europe. The Ministry of Transport is aware that Aeroflot has assessed the entry and exit conditions at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, for its newly acquired DC-10 cargo aircraft and that it has come to the conclusion that it is desirable to move the fishing cargo operations to Gardermoen. The Ministry assumes that this is related to the constraints associated with the utilisation of the load capacity. The applicable approach and departure procedure is adapted to the topographical conditions around the aerodrome and results in certain aeroplane types, including: DC-10, on take-off must have a reduced weight. However, following the assessment by the Aviation Agency, the technical, operational, capacity and environmental conditions related to the aerodrome facility itself at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes, are such that Aeroflot’s fishing cargo operations should be able to continue from Evens itself with weight limitations. However, the Aviation Agency underlines that they themselves do not perform ground operations at their aerodromes and that unloading and loading equipment adapted to each type of aeroplane does not therefore fall within the responsibility of the Aviation Agency. As my reply shows, it seems to be a commercial assessment that underpins Aeroflot’s decision to use Oslo Airport, Gardermoen, for its operations on DC-10 cargo aircraft. The new noise regulations are universal and apply to all airlines and airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1413	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I did not get much more informed about the situation with that answer. It is true that this salmon plane from Evenes to Japan has been a very successful export of fresh salmon from North Norway and has meant a lot to breeders. Like many others, I am amazed that this too would be centralized to East and Gardermoen. As far as I know, Harstad/Narvik Airport has a very long runway, and so it is more than long enough to take these new DC-10s. I am also familiar with the fact that the airport has a lot of capacity to take these planes along as well. Geographically, it is such that there should be no problem, neither noise nor anything else. I would like to ask the Council of State: what has the Ministry actually done about this matter in order to get this transport back to Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1420	As has been achieved, these are commercial solutions. These are not solutions that the state has in any way been in and out of control. Here, commercial solutions have been found between those who want to export fish and this Russian airline. It is an area which the State has not been in and regulated in any way, other than through the environmental and noise regulations applicable to general and which are not special, not on Evens either. That's what regulated the previous aircraft type that Aeroflot used. It is possible to come up with commercial solutions precisely by flying ahead at Evenes, even in a situation where noise and environmental requirements are met, that is nothing better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1425	I repeat that in these six years as this plane has gone on Evens, 25 000 tons of salmon have been transported, and it's clear that it means a lot. In 2000 alone, the export value of this salmon was over 150 million. kr. I would like to ask: can the Council of State imagine doing the same thing she did in relation to the flight routes cuts in Troms, contact the companies to discuss this in detail to tell us what this means, and to point out that this airport has the necessary facilities to take down this plane as well in the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1430	I have very warm feelings for that part of the country that this is about, and I'm very interested that you're going to succeed in business, also in exporting fish from there. But there's a big difference between the routes we talked about in the case of passenger transport, and this kind of commercial solutions for the transport of fish, which is a commercial business in relation to business. This is not a scheduled flight. This is agreed between the industry and this airline. This is always the case with commercial transport of this nature. The state is not in and regulates that way. I feel confident that the industry will be concerned about finding good solutions for this transport together with the airline, whether it is Aeroflot or other companies, given that they meet the requirements that are set for both safety and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1445	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1451	My question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs is as follows: ‘The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs wants 100 fewer municipalities over 10–15 years. This will mean larger municipalities. Studies show that small municipalities are more efficient and have more satisfaction than large municipalities. The debate on the future of municipalities should be about quality of services, proximity and participation rather than theoretical models of administrative cost reduction. Are the Councils of State more concerned with reducing costs than with ensuring that citizens have influence and quality of service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1460	Let me say that cost reduction is not the primary. I am primarily concerned that the municipalities should be able to ensure the availability and quality of services to users. A number of factors are important. We have e.g. a large number of studies showing that the main explanation of differences in the provision of services by municipalities is differences in the income of municipalities. We also know that, as a general rule, small municipalities have higher revenues than the average, partly because of high transfers and partly because of revenue. Therefore, when reference is made to the fact that municipalities have satisfied residents, this is not due to the fact that these municipalities do so much better than larger municipalities. A more important explanation is likely that these municipalities have higher revenues. Or, in other words, the small municipalities are not good because they are small, but because they are rich. A key prerequisite for the provision of good quality services is for municipalities to be able to recruit skilled labour. The statistical central agency has calculated the labour needs of the municipal sector if we are to maintain the same standard and coverage of the municipal welfare services and continue the escalation adopted in the health and care sector. The need for new annual works in the municipal sector will then exceed 60 000 annual works for a 12-year period from 1998 to 2010. In addition, users’ expectations and demands for higher quality of service are coming, which up to now has had a greater impact on employment growth than on population factors. These figures should, in my view, give rise to reflection on how to use labour in a way that provides as much and best services as possible. The challenge is particularly great for small districts if they are to be able to maintain and further develop their welfare offer, cf. also the answer I shall give to the next question, to the representative. The increased competition for labour — and in particular the most competent part of it — means that all employers must take seriously the need to facilitate attractive jobs. Wages and salaries will always be a competitive factor, but I believe that there is a competition the municipalities cannot aim to win. For municipalities, however, it will be important to be able to provide sufficiently wide professional environments. This is also the main reason for and the main argument that I have raised the debate on the municipal structure in Norway, because we see that there are problems with recruiting skilled labour in the smaller municipalities in the country. It will, in the long term, have an impact on the quality that can be achieved. Even today, there are signs of danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1475	I thank you for the answer, but I just want to dig a little bit more fully in what weight the Council of State actually attaches to the goal of satisfied inhabitants. A 1994 report from the Institute of State Science shows that 80 pst. of the population of municipalities with less than 2 500 inhabitants is satisfied with the provision of services in the care of the elderly, school and kindergarten. In municipalities with over 60,000 inhabitants, the number has fallen to 40 pst. In other words, there is a connection between the size of the municipality and the level of satisfaction with the service provision. Recent reports support this conclusion. The centre party acknowledges that the smallest municipalities may be somewhat more expensive to operate than the larger ones. But how does the Council of State feel about balancing the need for administrative savings and satisfaction among its citizens? Simply put, what's most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1482	One of the difficult things with satisfaction among the population is the question of what expectations they initially had. One of the interesting things that happens in large parts of the public sector is that you are now doing satisfaction studies based on your meeting with the public, that don't say anything about the quality of what you actually get, but that says something about how you think what you got, actually worked out, based on the expectations you had. So that means, like a paradox, that if you have low expectations of the public offer you're going to get, but get a fairly good offer, you're more happy about it than if you expected to get a good offer, and the offer you're actually getting is a little bit worse. Then, in fact, your satisfaction will be less. That's why I think that we need to use more qualitative research into what we actually get, not least to the weak groups, which are much less able to express satisfaction themselves. One of the points that has been pointed out in the case of small municipalities is the problems with regard to child protection, the problems with the competence of the heavy users. These are the weakest. Their experience of what they get, we rarely measure in relation to user satisfaction studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1487	Now we come to a question later, which is how to solve some of these capacity problems that we're talking about now in relation to disadvantaged groups in terms of inter-municipal cooperation. So let me follow up in a slightly different direction. A reduction in the number of municipalities by 100 will dramatically change the municipal structure as we know it per. today. My final question to the Council of State is whether this major change in the municipal structure represents the Government's ambition and policy, or whether it is only the Right's ambition and policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1492	It has not been stated at any time that this is the Government or the Right. It's my wish. It's my dream. It's my belief in what it should be like. I've said that it might give us a better public sector. Because we haven't reviewed and evaluated, because we're not going to redraw the map of Norway, divide each area and say what's going on, and whether we're going to have a goal to do this. So I spoke in an interview in the evening post before Christmas, when I was asked how I could imagine to see this in the future – how many municipalities it should be. I believe that within 10-15 years we should have 100 fewer municipalities. There are many ways on the way to this. The most important thing for me is to start a debate on the question of whether we have organised the public sector, even in relation to the borders, correctly. I agree – that is where we come across a new question from the Central Party – that intercommunal cooperation is also a very good answer. But I would like to remind you that this too will be the case for some democratic problems, such as: The centre party has been involved in stressing during the task-sharing process in Stortinget last spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1501	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘NIBR refers, in its latest report, to analyses of the variations in the problem-solving of municipalities, with a view to key functions added to the municipal sector: democracy, service production, legal certainty and societal development. [[project report 2001:19]] This work concludes, among other things, that the most vulnerable municipalities are large peripheral municipalities. The objectives of the Council of State on structural changes will lead to several such municipalities. Why does the Council of State think that this is the right way to go, when small municipalities produce the best results?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1510	Let me first refer to my answer to the previous question. In the assessment of the municipal structure, geography will always be an important and fundamental factor. I don't want large municipalities where the geographical conditions or other factors indicate that the municipality association is not a good solution. In such areas, intermunicipal cooperation could be a good alternative. So with regard to the claim that small municipalities provide the best results, there are a lot of different investigations, and I want to refer to a study done by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research on behalf of the Department of Small Municipalities on the ability of small municipalities to meet the generalist municipal requirement. The study points out that small municipalities face a number of challenges in the production of services. The challenge is particularly linked to the recruitment of professionals and the establishment of a professional environment, as well as to the ability of small municipalities to have access to food and to the provision of a differentiated and wide range of services to citizens. Small municipalities have significant recruitment problems in some areas. It is particularly problematic to recruit doctors for the community health service and qualified teachers for the music school. Child protection in small municipalities also seems to have difficulties in getting child protection educators. The study shows that the recruitment problem for some trade unions is as topical in small central municipalities as in district municipalities. The study shows that small municipalities will face major challenges in providing citizens with a differentiated and good service provision. I therefore believe that the municipality association is an instrument the municipality should consider using to meet these challenges. I also admit that there are other instruments, such as what I talk about every time I talk about this – including the talk that has obviously been the starting point of this questioning – underline equally strongly, namely inter-municipal cooperation, but that it must then be more committed than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1519	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At least I think there were some positive signals here, given that it is an alternative to community reunification, and that is inter-municipal cooperation. But it is clear that once the Council of State has so clearly expressed itself politically about whether we should have 100 fewer municipalities in 10–15 years, it means a municipal merger that will lead to large municipalities, leading to large distances. And it has been shown in this NIBR report that large distances are lacking in relation to democracy, in relation to the proximity to service provision and in relation to several important issues. I also think that the Council of State takes a dangerous view from above and below when she says that there are poor expectations of the public service in the small municipalities, and that is why you are so satisfied. It is a dangerous assessment of people's attitude to both democracy and quality of life that I will warn the Council of State against continuing. I think those who feel that they have a good service offer today do. And why should we appeal to even greater expectations and even greater credulity, if people are satisfied? It is clear that small municipalities are associated with greater involvement in local democracy, by voting, by correcting lists, and also by feeling closer to those who govern, to the first-line service, and to those who are responsible for the well-being that people expect to have in a public service that municipalities should have. It also little harmonizes with what the Council of State has said that users should receive services of high quality adapted to their individual needs. It's also nice to do better in small units with greater proximity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1528	I have not said that these are worse services and that people have more expectations in the districts. I was asked a theoretical question by the representative Haga about what I gave the most attention to, and then I showed that a problem with user studies is that they don't necessarily measure the same thing. What you can experience in a small municipality is that because of the proximity to the problems you will have more realistic expectations of what you can get than what you want in a larger municipality. For example, we want to do this. See that if the offer I get is going to get better, it might be at the expense of someone I know, when we have such proximity. This means that you may not have lower offers, because empirically you have better services in small municipalities, because of the income system, among other things. But I haven't said that, and the answer I'm giving isn't supposed to be interpreted as the representative of Joy now did. If you ask a hypothetical question about what to focus on, you will get back an answer that is based on problematic issues in using user surveys as a basis for this. There is still, therefore, a major problem with the survey to which the representative of Lutvold refers, because it has little control over the changes in the income system and the fact that municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants in this country have consistently better income, because the income system provides them with higher income than the costs they face, and therefore they have a better service provision – it is created by the Storting through the income system as such. Today it is an advantage to be a small municipality in relation to the income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1535	I thank you for that round. I think user studies are very important, I, in the public sector. We are well into politics and as service providers for the users, instead of having ideas fixed ideologically or otherwise on how to do it structurally for the user. If the user is satisfied, that means that society works. So a little bit about the income system. I agree that it is important, and I think that the income system should still be such that those who are satisfied can experience that it continues in small municipalities as well. I am a little in doubt as to whether the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Government intend to do so, because I have seen that the Minister of Municipal Affairs has said about this: it is important to investigate how increased expenditure for municipalities that grow rapidly in the population can be better incorporated into the income system criteria. The challenges for municipalities with a strong decline in the population must be met by means of beauty. Why should not also municipalities that have a decline in the population continue to have predictable and good arrangements through the ordinary income system?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1546	That's because there's a difference in the composition of the kind of expenses that we're talking about here. When we talk about a municipality of growth, we get a large amount of capital expenditure in a short time. That means you have to build new schools and kindergartens quickly. It is municipalities in this country that grow with one school per year. years. It causes them to have an acute problem, and a problem that can be permanent during the growing period you are in. When it's a disembarkation municipality, there's another type of problem, which doesn't depend on the cost of capital, because it's often given, it's fully developed, but it's adjusting service provision in thresholds downwards to lower demand. We have thought that perhaps most easily could be solved through discretionary means that can be taken into account in the individual community situation. It's hard to create an objective criterion. If we had been able to create an objective criterion, I would be very pleased, for my principle is that we should have the most objective criteria and the least policy management possible through the income system. But there is a recognition that these thresholds are different in different municipalities, and we provide them with the best possible benchmarks in relation to municipalities with problems through discretionary means.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1554	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Council of State has warned that municipalities which wish to merge must be financially stimulated, while those who do not want to do so must expect a more urgent economic situation. Will the Council of State be willing to deploy incentives on a much greater scale than today for inter-municipal cooperation as alternatives to municipal convergence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1563	Let me first point out that the introduction to the question is not a correct representation of what this Council of State has said or believes. A majority of the Stortinget, consisting of all parties other than the Centre Party and the Advance Party, has decided to have a breakdown grant for 10 years, corresponding to the former basic grants and regional grants of the municipalities. This is the only incentive I have mentioned in addition to a partial recovery of the additional costs associated with the association itself and assistance for the investigation of the association. I have also not announced a more pressing financial situation for other municipalities. That's not a proper statement either. But I have said that when a municipality asks for exceptional financial assistance, and has had long-standing financial problems, the county council may require investigations to be started that assess the conversion effect of both inter-municipal cooperation and of municipal associations. My principle is that in such a situation it must be more important to look for administrative savings and better forms of organisation than to cut down on the services of citizens. The Ministry has used and will continue to use resources to stimulate inter-municipal cooperation, in particular to identify good cooperation models that can help municipalities to perform their tasks more effectively for the benefit of the citizens of the municipality. I am committed to bringing forward cooperation measures that have elements of innovation in them and that have transfer value to other municipalities in what you do. In addition to the funds used for this purpose by the Ministry, provision has been made to enable the county councillors to provide support for the development of inter-municipal cooperation solutions through the discretionary means. So it's like you've already put in instructions that meet the demand of the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1574	I stick to the Evening Post on January 9th this year, where the Council of State gives an interview under the heading «Community refusal of conversion shall be punished on the purse». I haven't seen that she's demented anything of what it says there. It is clear that she expects a transformation and an efficiency far beyond what she needs to know is possible in the municipalities, so this is understood to mean that you do not want to merge, so you have to. For the Centre Party, the fight now takes into account the individual’s terms and conditions when it comes to the proximity of a good service provision, the consideration of distances that are affordable between individuals, the inhabitants and decision-making processes. It surprises us that Erna Solberg, if she is concerned about developing further intercommunal cooperation, does not then announce that she will actually strengthen this strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1581	I have just said that we are strengthening this strongly, that this is an equal position in what has been said to the statesmen about inter-municipal cooperation and community associations. I think the Central Party is now making a debate on the basis of a desire to create a debate in a debate area that they feel is a safe and good centre party area, but where you probably don't have any evidence for all the claims you're actually making. First of all, this is the evening post. I haven't given an interview to the Evening Post. The evening post has written an article based on what I have said in a talk. I have told the evening post that I am not going well with the title, and that I think it was far from what is actually said in that post. But to get that kind of thing fixed becomes a piece of chips that most of us politicians know is not something you spend time on. So we're not going to put the money bag together, as it said in that heading, but we're going to demand that we figure out associations and make a decision about it, and then we're going to lay the foundation for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1590	The contents of the article and the content of the lecture as well as comments from Erna Solberg go in one direction. She wants fewer municipalities. She wants municipalities to merge. She wants to take from the smaller municipalities, give to the larger ones – a kind of cowardice in relation to denying what she really wants. She's trying to force another municipal structure. The centre party is not going to be on the barricade because we're definitely going to keep 434 municipalities in this country. It's the service provision and the proximity we're busy with. And in that context, we know of very good projects that have been made through a sprawl layer between state, county councils and municipalities, for example. The ARNE projects on North Jären and the rapid network in Ryfylke. We ask the Council of State to say that it will not only pass funds on to inter-municipal cooperation, but also take an offensive to ensure that one municipality can benefit from child protection, another on heavy users and a third, for example. on legal clarifications in different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1597	I'll take one of those offensives. It's part of the government's modernisation strategy. And I think it was advertised in relation to the post I made in Re, which was also a result of two central party-driven municipalities, so it was good to merge into a slightly larger unit to solve their problems. I've actually heard a lot of pragmatic center parties around the country that are just in a discussion, saying that there are some parts that are small and good, but there are some parts that are so problematic that we have to look at new and larger structures. I probably feel that the center party out there in reality and with the feet on the ground maybe see a slightly different everyday life than the one drawn in this hall from the centre party. I am in favour of inter-municipal cooperation. I would like to remind you that it was actually one of the great solutions for the Right in relation to the question of the closure of the county. At that time, less than a year ago, a majority expressed itself very skeptical about inter-municipal cooperation in the field of mission reporting, because there were fears of democratic problems associated with it. But if intermunicipal cooperation is to work, it has to be more obligatory than today, and we have to find other forms to do it on. One of the measures we have now announced that we are working with is to create neutrality in relation to the VAT system, for some of the conversion issues related to inter-municipal cooperation are now affected by VAT on services. So if it's an offensive representative's wish, she'll have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1608	‘In the past, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has indicated that the largest municipalities will have more to go with. The Central Party agrees that the major cities have problems that must be given special attention, and wants their own major city grant in the state budget. Is the Council of State willing to provide the local government with free resources to bring about a necessary uplift for the big cities, or is the funds to be redistributed from smaller to larger municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1615	Through the Sem Declaration, the Government has committed itself to strengthening the municipal economy and to continuing to increase the income framework of the municipal sector during this major period. This will benefit all municipalities, both urban municipalities, centrally located municipalities and district municipalities. In my opinion, the growth municipalities and cities have specific challenges that have not been addressed in the income system. Increased population numbers and expenditure on care and psychiatry must be better cared for in state transfers. The municipal income system shall contain criteria in relation to the expenditure components of the municipalities. Today, the important areas in which we want to strengthen work are not included in the Criteria System. In my view, this needs to be changed and will result in a greater share of the growth in the income of the municipal sector in the coming years. This concerns the specific areas related to drug use, related to psychiatry and related to the efforts the Stortinget would like to have in relation to homeless people, mainly major urban problems. There are currently no criteria for this in the income system. Although a large part of the growth in the income of the municipal sector will go to cities and the press areas, districts can also grow. What is crucial is the size of the overall framework for the income of the municipal sector in the years to come. In the 2003 municipal proposal, presented in mid-May, the Government will provide the first signals on the growth of the income framework of the municipal sector in 2003 and on the distribution of income frameworks between municipalities and between counties. I would like to remind you that the proportion of revenue that becomes free income depends on both what I do and what the representative of Skjellaa is doing in terms of reducing the amount of earmarked schemes. Here we all have challenges, both government and greatness, in trusting local politicians' ability to prioritise according to local needs and to follow up our respective electoral programmes, without necessarily having to do so through earmarked schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1626	I thank the Council of State for the answer so far. The municipal minister has received several questions today related to the municipal economy – small municipalities, large municipalities, where it is good to live and where it is less good to live, i.e. how people experience services. Because that's actually what's important. So the council said in a previous answer that small municipalities are good, not because they are small, but because they are rich. I want the Council of State to elaborate on the answer, where she can in a way prove that small municipalities are good because they are rich, when we know that there are many small municipalities that are poor, which are not even able to approve their budgets – for example. Waksdal municipality in Hordaland that has to cut down to the bone, which they don't choose to do, but they don't get to approve their budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1635	In the income system, the main trunk consists of an expenditure component that is based on objective criteria, but it thus lacks some pieces in some areas that we believe the municipalities should do, with which the major cities have the biggest problems, especially in the social field. Then it is that the income system contains some components that are politically determined and that initially do not have a specific justification for a expenditure structure in the municipalities. It is the regional grant, which all municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants receive, and it is the North Norway grant, which is given to the municipalities of the three northernmost counties, with slightly different degrees in the different counties. The sum of the latter two grants gives small municipalities, and especially small municipalities in Northern Norway, a higher level of income than comparable municipalities, which have slightly more inhabitants, in other parts of the country. This results in a better service provision, because these municipalities have better advice. It has been a wild thing in Stortinget to give priority to this in district policy. It was stated, among other things. in the statement that Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad made when she was a municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1642	It's amazing that people in small municipalities actually get good services, and I hope that the government in its policy will continue to be able to stimulate it, so that people in small municipalities can experience that the services are good. Now on Monday a study was published that showed that the big cities in particular had problems accepting patients who had been discharged from hospitals, while the small municipalities were good, because they had an appliance that was ready to accept. I interpret the Council's response to the big cities that she sees that the big cities need a special boost. Can the Council of State elaborate on it a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1649	As I also answered last week's question time to the representative Leif Lund who raised some of the same question, we believe, based on the fact that there are components that are not within the income system, that are based not only on political will, but also on the fact that there are expenditure elements that are not inside, that the big cities need a strengthening of their economy, not least because we are leaving a government that intends to bet on the problem of poverty, which is concerned with drug issues, and which is concerned that the poorest in Norway should get better. It assumes the operation of the first line service in Norway and the functioning of the first line service in major cities. These are areas where a number of the tasks that big cities primarily have are not covered in the Criteria System. Then we get back to the objective criteria, or if a big city grant is the right element here. We may have to have a big city grant for a period of time before we have implemented the criteria. I also replied to Leif Lund last week's question time. We do not disagree with this need, but it is such that the overall framework for the municipalities is distributed between different municipalities. If we prioritise some new elements into other municipalities, that in practice means that of this overall framework, some municipalities will get more growth than others, that means that the proportion of the growth in the municipal economy will be slightly less for the district municipalities, if the metropolitan municipalities get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1660	This question, from Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1663	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment that I understand will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has gone away. ‘The Minister for the Protection of the Environment has recently put a stop to the most intrusive embellishment of the snowmobile driving legislation. This is contrary to what a great number has said. Right-wing representatives of the District-Norway races and are listed above their own State Council on this matter. Reasonable use of snowmobiles, both for business and recreation purposes, is positive. Developments in this area show an urgent need for more streamlined and timely legislation. Will the councils reconsider their vision?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1672	On behalf of the Minister for the Environment, I will be allowed to give the following answers: In a letter of 11 January this year to the Presidency of the United Kingdom, the Minister for the Environment stated that there is currently no basis for implementing changes to the national motor vehicle regulations. There are several reasons for this. The amendment that has been at the hearing has been met with a number of counter-representations. It is important that the consultation process carried out is taken seriously. Once important objections have been raised, it must be appropriate to take these into account. In particular, there are some problems that the proposal could cause in relation to the enforcement of the legislation. The letter to Stortinget stressed that under the previous government, an experimental system was set up with planned motor traffic management in eight municipalities. The experiment will test whether this model can provide better predictability, less workload and less illegal movement. The experiment has a framework of three years and will be evaluated by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research. The Minister for the Environment seems right to gain experience from the experiment before addressing changes to the national regulation. The decision not to amend the regulation now will not be reconsidered until the trial is completed. In the Sem Declaration, the Government states that the main principle of prohibiting motor travel in outland shall be maintained. Local regulations derogating from this main principle shall not endanger or adversely affect other interests. In this it is that the Government is generally skeptical about liberalising the motor racing regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1687	I thank the Council of State for the answer she gave on behalf of the Minister for the Environment. I and many with me have reacted with the greatest wonder about the Minister for the Environment's handling of this matter, for in this case the Environment Council has sovereignly set aside the wish of the Stortinge, local democracy and industry in the districts – and from several of the Right's own voters around Norway. Local politicians and others living in district municipalities have strongly wanted more flexible legislation in this area. And then there comes a Right-State Council – of all people – that conducts the purest over-representation in this regard. How in all the world are you getting the superpowers that the Council of State is doing here to harmonize with good right-wing policies? Is this kind of detail management and foresight something that we have to put up with will characterise the Right Policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1696	As a politician, there is always a need to balance different concerns with each other. There has been a consultation round on a new regulatory framework based on the wishes of the Stortinget. There have been strong objections regarding some of the areas. At the same time, a pilot project has been launched in eight municipalities, delegating responsibility for administration. This is a strategy for assessing who will be responsible for the regulatory management in the future. So the objections have been considered so large that you will see the results of the experiment before you may change the regulation. They will be seen, as far as I know, in two and a half years' time – this without reservation, as it is not my responsibility as the Council of State. The test project is already under way and has been in progress for six months. Within the framework of these three years, there will be an opportunity for a further change — if the results of the pilot project prove appropriate — and if there is still a strong desire in the Stortingen to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1705	I've noticed the answer. I would just like to inform the Council of State that, on the right, in April 2000, it was proposed that the individual municipality should be given decisive authority to, among other things. establishing a snowmobile loop network. Now the right one says the true opposite. The decision is therefore strongly contrary to everything – as I can see – the Right has done and stated in this matter earlier. This is a centralised reform policy which the Progress Party cannot accept at all, and which I think is completely reprehensible. This case definitely belongs to the local democratic arena, as I see it. But there is a Right-State Council in the thickest Oslo that – in the sovereign contempt of local self-government in District Norway – neglects both Building Norway and Stortinget's intentions completely. Does not Minister Solberg see the local democratic aspect of this matter? Is this not a matter which she too believes should be very well suited to be cared for precisely by municipal self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1714	I see that this contains elements for local self-government, based on the fact that different interests have to be weighed against each other, including the interest of local business, for example. had to have this checked. It may otherwise go out of business, because some of the things you are looking for in Norway are peace and quiet — and not motorist — in the places where you live. We have not said no until the right has been proposed in the past. What they have said no to is to do it right now – when, after all, you have an experiment in eight municipalities that is just about how to manage this system locally. Once you have evaluated the proposal, you will be able to go back and assess whether this should be the main norm. It has to be one of the assumptions for having an experiment at all. When we went into a government based on three parties, we made some compromises between the parties. One of the compromises set out in the Sem Declaration states that the main principle of prohibiting motor travel in land is to be maintained. It has been followed up by the Minister for the Environment, and then the results of the eight trials will be awaited.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1723	We're going back to questions 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1730	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘As small coastal nations with large economic zones in the North Atlantic, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway have a common interest in ensuring control of the huge natural resources in their area. Such control would be the best guarantee of sound management of resources. To date, the Norwegian authorities have not prioritised cooperation in the West. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do anything to strengthen this cooperation, and will a Norwegian accession to the Western Nordic Council be considered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1739	The West Order includes Iceland and the autonomous areas of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Norway has good and active bilateral relations with Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, and I agree that we have important common interests to care for. We also have a positive cooperation with the Western Nordic Council of Ministers. From the Norwegian side, we have actively supported the wish of the Western Nordic countries to establish cooperation with the Western Shetland neighbourhoods, the Orknæ Islands, the Hebrides, Scotland and the Eastern Canadian provinces. In our programme for Norway's presidency in Nordic government cooperation for this year, we will consider strengthening this cooperation in the North Atlantic region. A central area is work on coordinated and sustainable development in the North Sea region. This will be an important theme, for example: when Norway organises the fifth North Sea Conference in Bergen in March. In addition, together with Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, we participate in the Nordic Atlantic Cooperation Cooperation Committee, abbreviated NORA. NORA is funded by the Nordic Council of Ministers and helps to strengthen cooperation in areas where we have common interests. The NORA may provide pre-project support for the sub-financing of pilot and development projects in priority economic areas, preferably in the direction of private enterprises, but also to public institutions. Priority areas include marine resources and the marine environment, tourism, agriculture, traffic and communication, as well as trade and industry. In my opinion, we have extensive and useful cooperation with the Western Nordic countries. Norway will continue to do so, not least in the light of the challenges raised by the representative Swensen in his question. I would also like to look at the possibilities of expanding this cooperation. On the issue of Norwegian membership of the Western Nordic Council, I would like to remind you that this Council is a cooperation body for parliamentarians from the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland. Therefore, a Norwegian link has not been specifically assessed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1752	The Western Nordic Council is the main forum for cooperation between the Faroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland, as it was said here. From being a cooperation body for parliamentarians, there is also a framework for meetings at government level between Member States. The Charter of the Council states, inter alia: on the purpose of the Council for the conservation and controlled use of its living resources to be of importance for the rest of the world's food supplies. Norway has an economic zone which is seven times our land area and which is adjacent to the economic zones of the western Nordic countries. The Western Nordic countries thus have an opportunity to jointly control and manage large parts of the North Atlantic. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not believe that membership in the Western Nordic Council is at least as natural as our participation in the Baltic Sea region? Norway does not, as you know, border the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1759	My point is that the Western Norse Council is primarily a parliamentary body. And if I understood what the representative Swensen now said, right, he said that government cooperation is a consequence of being a member of this parliamentary body. As far as that is concerned, it is natural that the Storting is in the driver’s seat. But I would like to stress that it is important for us to be in close contact with countries also in the West, because the sea gives us a common problem area. I would like to study this question more closely. But just that point that it's the Storting sitting here in the driver's seat, makes me answer as I did.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1764	At the same time as the general dwindling of all Nordic institutions, alternative cooperation institutions are being set up in parts of the Nordic region and its neighbourhoods. Sweden, Denmark and Finland have shown a strong interest in the construction of the Baltic Sea region, which includes the Baltic States. In addition, we have the problem of emissions from Sellafield, and they are a threat to life throughout the North Atlantic. The government has shown a very firm and good policy on emissions from Sellafield. On a bilateral basis, the government has shown an offensive attitude towards the United Kingdom to stop these emissions. Does the Council not see that the Western Norse Council will be an important forum to put further pressure on the United Kingdom in this important environmental issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1771	I don't want to simply say that we can't put the necessary pressure in, like we're doing bilaterally now. It turns out that with the high profile that the sitting government has had, there may be some solutions. In any case, we now see a certain attendance from the British side. This indicates that we have found a track in many ways. If the situation would be better with any membership of the Western Nordic Council, I dare not say so much about it. I would like to stress that we also have good cooperation with the countries in connection with the Nordic Council, which has been our framework for cooperation in many ways and which has proved to be a very valuable cooperation along this path. But if it is that the Storting wants to get closer to the Western Norse Council, the Government will always be able to find its place in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1782	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘During the examination of the 2002 Culture Budget, the regulation for the Fund for Performing Artists was under discussion. The majority gave clear guidance as to what the regulations had to take into account regarding the composition of the board. On 21 December, the Ministry of Culture issued new regulations which do not take into account the Committee’s clear recommendation that exerciserepresentation should be significantly strengthened. Will the Council of State withdraw the regulations and ensure that the Storting's intentions are followed?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1791	There has been a great deal of commitment from several organisations when it comes to the rules that should apply to the appointment of directors of the Fund for Performing Artists. Under the new rules, the performers have been given additional representation in the board of directors. The board has expanded from four to five people. The record producers have their place on the board as before. The Chair will be elected on a free basis. As a result, the Governing Board has now been given three executive representatives, against the previous two. In fact, I actually thought this is a pretty substantial increase. I feel that I have followed up what Stortinget said in the setting. The Fund’s rules shall ensure that the Governing Board has the necessary competence in the areas where the Fund provides support. The Ministry has made sure the practitioners have a significant increase in the representation of the Board of Directors, while considering the fund's ability to govern. So I don't see any reason to change the rules on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1800	It is possible that percentage calculations may show a relatively large increase, but it is such that an increase in the number of persons in a board of directors comes in units of one and the same, so it is not actually possible to get a smaller increase in the exercise representation than the Minister of Culture received in the exercise of the fund. We were familiar with the regulations that had been sent to the hearing. We knew that the proposal was going to expand with one. It was precisely for this reason that a unanimous committee in the budgetary position on page 89 writes that it is ‘important to extend substantially the representation of the practitioners in the fund’. It was just to give a message to the Minister of Culture that you had to expand it more than what it was supposed to do in the hearing. It's actually a unanimous committee that has gone in for it. In the answer, the Minister of Culture now says that she believes that she has fulfilled this. It is clear that this was not what we said in this remark, and my question to the Minister for Culture is: does she view unanimous comments from the Committee on Culture as purely indicative practice, or does she think they should be binding on the decision and activity of the Minister for Culture in his office?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1809	Of course, I'm looking at what a co-counsel's culture committee says, and what the Storting has said. I actually mean to have followed up on the intention. I've talked to several people in the committee, and they've given me the support that when I've expanded with a representative of the practitioners, it's a significant increase. It is also important that we have a government that is not too large, so that it can work at the best of their resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1816	It's directly wrong what the Minister of Culture says. We had a specific discussion in the committee, where I also asked representatives of the Minister of Culture's own party about the party of the Minister of Culture when I realized that the word «essential» meant more than one, as it was put up for in the hearing, and was told that it did. One party in the committee had a specific description of how the board of funds was to be constituted. We found no reason at that time to go into such a detailed description, precisely because we had a consultation process going on, and we found a different solution with the government parties. When the Minister of Culture then completely disregards what we have had of the political process in the committee, I do not overlook the need to re-examine the matter, and, with the majority constellations in the committee, to simply adopt in the Storting what the fund should look like, to ensure that we get the breadth that this fund should have, to ensure that the performer's representation is strong enough from different environments, different genres, so that the practitioners themselves can handle it. My question is also why the Minister of Culture has not followed up what we have said about the right to vote. In a letter to the organisations, the Minister of Culture writes that it is hardly feasible to implement it in practice. A unanimous committee also said there that the organisations had to be given the right to set up, so that the organisations proposed, appoint and appoint the members to sit on the fund board. Neither has the Minister of Culture followed up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1827	Yes, I have. I have simply written letters to the organizations and asked them to come with recordings to the department for who to sit on this board. The right of setting cannot mean that all those proposed will have space, because we do not have that many representatives. But I have sent letters to the organizations and asked them to make recordings, and of course I want to listen to the recordings that they are making, when I'm going to put together the board. Otherwise, I would also like to page what was said from the working party fraction, as this matter was up the previous time. Int. O. No 67 for 1999-2000: ‘When the fund has to be converted into a purely cultural fund, it has to be assessed in the regulation whether it is close to maintaining a provision that certain groups should have the right to representation over others. This issue should continue to be a regulatory matter and those members oppose the submission by the Committee of any guidance concerning the representation of directors in a fund financed by a public levy.’;» That is when the working party fraction said, and I have also noticed that when I have worked on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1841	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-23.ana.ud319e1852	There is no record.
