ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e89	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e94	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e99	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e113	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 189]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e129	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 189]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e145	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e154	Int. O. No 34 allows for the introduction of a coastal fishing fleet structural fund through an amendment to Section 9(b) of the Saltwater Fisheries Act. However, this is not done without certain conditions, as the Committee has explained in its observations. The objective of establishing a Structural Fund is to reduce coastal fleet capacity. The Fund is one of several structural instruments currently either for discussion or for consultation by the Ministry of Fisheries. Among the main structural arrangements currently under discussion are the Structural Funds, the establishment of a single quota system for coastal fleets and a quota exchange scheme. The Committee stresses in its position that all structural instruments must be seen in the context of the fisheries policy objectives previously set by the Stortinget. The Committee also points out, like the Ministry, the importance of the coherence of the different structural instruments, given the recognition that there is a combination of different operational and structural arrangements that will shape the coastal fleet of the future. The Committee therefore concludes that an overall review of structural policy in the fisheries sector is natural and considers it a prerequisite for such an overall discussion to be carried out before any new action is taken, including the proposed Structural Fund. On that basis, the entry into force of such a fund has been postponed in time, so that it can be implemented as from 1 July of next year at the earliest. It is important and absolutely necessary that the size of the population in this way says that they want to deal with the overall measures. I assume that the Government will follow this up, so that a case can be dealt with in the Storting during the spring session. The Committee also calls for the Fund to be financed by a premium for the first-hand marketing of fish. There are different opinions as to whether it should apply to all or part of the fund. The Committee also stresses that the Fund should be managed by SND. I'm going to allow the various fractions to elaborate on their comments relating to the suspension, but let me say a little bit about the central party's position on this issue and give a reason why the central party is now giving the authority of a structural fund in the matter. The centre party is not in principle opposed to a form of structural funds or conditioning system, but we believe, like the department, that the combination of structural funds, so-called quota exchange and unit quota arrangements for coastal fleets must be seen in the context. Our position is that the type of combination of structural measures will mean excessive structuring of the coastal fleet which, in total, could lead to the closure of many fishermen on a permanent basis and, at the same time, a strong centralisation of the rights of fishing resources. In the past, the centre party has assumed that we consider a unit quota scheme for the coastal fleet to be unfortunate. However, in the context of the issue we are dealing with today, I would like to point out in particular the issue of quota exchange, which I regard as a measure that is very close to the issue of transferable quotas. Marketable quotas are, as this room is known, measures which have so far not been accepted by Norwegian fisheries authorities. The centre party is also concerned that the process of treatment of the Innst is being carried out. O. No 34 have not been able to provide well-founded analysis of the impact of the structural system. It has not been possible to obtain an answer to the proportion of the coastal fishing fleet's vessels that need to leave fishing in order to make it profitable for the remaining fishermen. It has not been possible to respond to the geographical distribution effect this will have on the coastal fleet. Nor has it been possible to answer what this will mean for the coastal fish landing pattern. The Central Party considers it important that some of these questions be answered when further discussion is being given of the overall structural instruments. We believe that in a matter that is so crucial to the coastal fleet of the future, in order to have the best possible decision-making basis, there should be facts about these issues on the table. We are also of the opinion that some of the structural schemes already implemented should be evaluated before implementing new measures. It is the view and conditions of the Centre Party to be able to apply for a basis for a Structural Fund. We are pleased that it has been possible to bring together the Committee behind the issue of having a more comprehensive discussion in the Storting of these proposals, and we regard it as natural, in this context, to be able to support the House with the limited time limit to which the vote is based. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e184	The representative Arnstad has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e187	The fish has always been one of our most important food routes. This can also be the case in the future if we manage this resource in a viable way. Unfortunately, history has shown how things can go when the fish are too large. The collapse of the herring population is an example of that. We therefore need to keep track of where, so that this renewable resource is taken care of. In this way, fishing will also be able to create a safe way of life in the future along our long-range coast. Unfortunately, there seems to be an overcapacity in the Norwegian fishing fleet and a need for structural changes. The Hearing Round also shows that most people are in such a reality description. Structural changes may however be made in many ways. For the Workers' Party, it is important that capacity changes in the fishing fleet do not go beyond the main objectives of the fisheries policy. The objective of setting up a Structural Fund must be a better adapted fleet, but also a more profitable industry. The changes must be made in a way that ensures the basis for the many coastal communities living from fishing. Changes should not result in quota centralization. It is important and appropriate to regulate fleet capacity in a way that takes into account both a viable resource take-off and a balance between different ship groups. It is important that the fund does not receive an alignment that is opposite to what is desirable. We must not get a reactivation of capacity that is actually out of active fishing. Nor should it be the most profitable boats or the least indebted. The Structural Fund must not contribute to the build-up of the debt of the actors remaining in the industry. We don't know how much capacity we need to build up today. We also do not know enough about the impact of the Government proposal on construction, raw materials access and recruitment. These conditions should have been better developed. It is important that the introduction of a Structural Fund does not become a sleep cushion. Other measures must also be put in place. It is important to look at the different measures in the context. It would therefore have been a clear advantage if the Storting had had a broader basis for the decisions that we are invited to make today. However, the working party will be in favour of the establishment of the Fund and the levy to be financed by the Fund. It is important that this work begins. For the Labour Party, it is also an important premise that the Government will present a case to give the Storting the opportunity for a broader treatment of this matter. This will happen before the Structural Fund comes into existence. I expect that the government in matters to be brought forward in the spring will also give a broader picture of the impact of a structural fund than is the case in the case we are dealing with today. It has been an important premise for the Fiskerlage that the State has at least contributed to the same sum that is charged by the fee. Even if it is the case that the Storting deals with the budget for one year at a time, one should have signalled support for such a principle. At least it is important that the creation of the fund does not constitute an argument for cutting the State contribution to the restructuring of the industry. The batch of progress to lift the delimitation in the size of fishing vessels and freely transferable quotas will lead to a centralisation of the industry. The dishes for fishing will end up on few hands. The depopulation of large parts of our coast will be the result. I am therefore pleased that they today are standing alone about their wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e215	Let me just first say that I am basically against the principle of the marketing and centralisation of fish quotas. The right considers that allowances and concessions which are not exercised by the exercisers as intended are initially to be withdrawn into the Community. We have to survive an evolution that has continued for many years, where concessions and allowances are actually sold, with the possibility of a million-dollar gain. This matter is, in my opinion, very much put to the fore. It's created a lot of trouble, a lot of unnecessary trouble. In my view, it is essential for the Ministry to implement the measures proposed. In particular, it is explained that fishing quotas are historically at a very low level today. It is at this level that questions are asked whether or not action is necessary, whether or not we have sufficient answers as to whether capacity is adapted to the resource situation. I think we all, if we think carefully about it, know that the greatest threat to the reconstruction of the resources that are currently at a minimum, or that are not satisfactory, is overcapacity within the fishing quota. This is actually a matter that the Stortinget has asked for. So what the ministry is doing is actually implementing a decision on the part of Stortinget. That is why I am pleased that in this case it is open to authorise the implementation of the Structural Fund for capacity-adjustment of the fishing fleet. I have a great deal of understanding that, on the part of Stortinget, we want a discussion on how to implement quota allocation, structure and principles. But I think we're making a big mistake if we present this case as a sort of attack on a catch group, because that's not what's in the matter. Condemnation has been a firm and sustainable principle for more than 40 years. It has been the most effective principle for getting out overcapacity or getting the modernisation of the fishing capacity that has been necessary to have a fleet that we can at least get on the chest and be familiar with also environmentally. In fact, there are several thousand vessels that during these a couple and forty years have been through a consolidation, and the Norwegian State has used a place between half a billion and a billion dollars over these years to contribute to capacity reduction, because this has proved to be the most effective tool we have had, while having had the effect of adapting to the resource situation. But what we can say is that in any case we have not succeeded well enough in this sector, and that we still have a great deal of overcapacity at all levels in Norwegian fisheries. For those who want more documentation: I assume that when we get to spring a case from the department that mentions this, at least the documentation must be in place. At the same time, I believe that we need to ask ourselves the question in a situation where there has been a considerable amount of capital invested in equipment, fishing and fleet: what is the alternative to the solution outlined by the department and which has been widened up in fishermen's organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e224	Initially, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party, referred to in the vote. There seems to be a broad consensus that the capacity of the fishing fleet is not optimal, that something needs to be done to reduce it. Excessive fleet capacity is not in the industry’s interest because it reduces the profitability of fishermen and thus increases uncertainty about industry opportunities. The Progress Party notes that there is disagreement in the Storting on how to resolve the problems, but there is a subsidiary majority in favour of the introduction of the structural tax proposed by the Government. In order to explain the views of the Progress Party on the structure of the fishing fleet, I would like to say a few words about the overall fisheries policy of the Progress Party. We are of the opinion that action must be taken to reduce overcapacity in the Norwegian fishing fleet, especially in the coastal fleet, which really means something. Our objective is to provide a framework for the fishing industry so that public transfers will not be necessary. Previous support schemes made it less interesting for fishermen to adapt to a market, and we believe that the results suggest that the aid schemes have not acted as a good regional policy instrument. We're going to have a different fishing fleet in Norway, but it has to be up to the individual investor to decide which vessel he wants to invest in and fish with. The public shall not, in our view, allocate allowances or support schemes to different types of fishing vessel. For us, it is important to have a fisheries policy that allows resources to be used in a much better way. Therefore, the size of vessels must not be limited. The catch shall be regulated by allocation of total quotas. And here comes an important point in the fisheries policy of the Progress Party, which will help to reduce the overcapacity we have today. We want to introduce a system of free movement of allowances. This will be the best measure to adapt the structure of the fishing fleet. It will also lead to better exploitation of the different fish species. Allowances shall accompany the fisherman or the farm and not the boat, as at present. By introducing freely tradable allowances, the structure of the industry will be much more rational by improving access to raw material to the land-based industry than is the case today. Now the industry is struggling in many places to get enough raw material and has to shut down the business. This shows that the current system is not good enough and that changes are required. The Party also recognises the need for a certain level of regulation of the fishing industry, because fish is a national resource to be managed for the best benefit of the country. No one has ownership, and it is also our view that it should be managed as a national common resource. The aim of the regulation must be to ensure that the populations of the different species of fish are not severely reduced, but keep a level that allows the coastal population to have fish as a safe food route in the future. However, the regulatory framework must be designed to encourage greater incentives for private initiative and competition. Marketable allowances will ensure that. A regulatory model may be introduced in which the allowances are set for several years at a time. This will provide stability and provide a basis for better planning within the industry. Such stability will stimulate long-term investment for industry, fishermen and fishing boats. Allotment allowances that will not be fished before the end of the year are auctioned out so that other vessels can use this resource. I refer to our proposal in the position where we ask the Government to submit a case to the Stortinget where the issue of the introduction of tradable allowances has been resolved. The Progress Party will give its subsidiary support to the Government's proposal to introduce a structural levy and a structural fund. However, we are of the opinion that the costs of setting up the Structural Fund must be borne by the industry itself, that no public contribution to the Fund is necessary. The reason for this is that the implementation of the structural adjustment in the case will provide those who stay in the industry, increase profitability and the possibility of higher earnings than they have today. It is the industry itself that wants to profit, and then it is reasonable and correct that the industry itself has to cover the costs of its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e239	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e242	We have now gone through 12 years with capacity-reducing measures in the fishing fleet. Paradoxically, investment and fishing capacity are now bigger than anything, and debt is increasing in all fleet groups except in the smallest coastal fleet group. But the proposition we have today for treatment demonstrates with all the clarity that the department has not thought about what is driving up the investment. So we've been trying for 12 years to reduce something that we don't know what is, without measuring if it works, and we're going to keep doing that. The odelsting is invited to give permission to continue on the same gallium, without any consequence. Anyone who may be a little concerned about this may be comforted by the Fisheries Minister’s recent announcement to the Fisheries Bulletin: ‘The best impact assessment is to try out the schemes in practice’. But I think the department should have taken on board the lack of understanding of how the new schemes will work, and the total absence of evaluation of existing schemes could lead to many surprises. This has been pointed out both by the Hearing Officers and by the Committee in its configuration. I cannot understand why the Council of State is so little interested in getting any such analysis on the table. Since the introduction of the vessel quota system, we have seen two different main strategies for achieving coastal fleet profitability: a group has chosen a reduction in costs to achieve better profitability with low vessel quotas. Another group has chosen to invest to participate in as much fishing as possible. The latest strategy now appears to be the least profitable, and the need for higher incomes has quickly become apparent. It is within this framework that we need to understand the present proposal for the creation of a Structural Fund. All the numbers show that the smallest fleet group that we're going to give today is going to give the law to get rid of is driving the most profitable. The misinvestments in the largest coastal fleet and the liabilities incurred by the sea fishing fleet as a result of the purchase of allowances are provisions for the creation of a fund designed to buy out the smallest. No one can close their eyes to this. These vessels – one and two man boats less than 15 metres – are those that have not gone into the investment traps. They have therefore been able to live with the relatively low quotas they have had in the last few years. This government seems to believe that it is possible to create stable framework conditions, stock growth and a viable and profitable industry in coastal fleet degradation. This is the wrong strategy. We should have gone the other way. It is not possible to achieve the fisheries policy objectives without changing the taxation pattern. Instead, we should have strengthened those groups that run the most resource-rich fishing. Unfortunately, this is happening today only in the fisheries policy rhetoric. Odelsting today facilitates the most profitable and resilient out of the industry. Politically, I'm not surprised that one in the proposition has not taken the trouble of making a review of what capacity is actually about. It is simply a clarification that weakens the basis of the whole reasoning on which the proposition is based. Both for single operators and for the industry as a whole, some overcapacity can be beneficial. For each individual, some people say that a good capacity for catching a given quota makes it possible to reduce costs, invest in selective fishing for large fish, provide better time for quality management, etc. For the industry as a whole, it will make it easier to put in place measures to change the taxation pattern and intensify the quality regulation. So what the Department of Proposition refers to as the undisputable overcapacity of the coastal fleet makes it easier to ensure a sustainable exploitation of the community's resources in the future. On the other hand, overinvestments have been seen by both single operators and industry as a whole in a situation of coercion: I have to have a bigger quota – the bank banks on the door, I have to have a quota so I can bet on my debt. In view of the many structural measures proposed by this government, I believe that one is in such a forced situation. This year, with larger cod quotas than this year, the coastal fleet of less than 15 metres has fished less than its share of the quota. If one reduces the capacity of the coastal fleet, it will not be possible, with poor availability, to take up the quota that one has with passive hijackers this year. The paradox is that a fleet adapts to a stocky low, while the aim is to build up stocks and increase the future allowance base. This is going in the wrong direction. SV will therefore vote against the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e266	The background for the saga we are dealing with today is that there is overcapacity in the fishing fleet, also in the coastal fleet. We need to reduce that overcapacity, among other things. by purchasing and compensating fishing vessels, thereby reducing the number of participants and increasing the profitability of the remaining participants in the fisheries. According to the Christian People's Party's opinion, it's a strength that we in Norway have a composite fleet, and we're still going to have it. The sum of the fleets we have shall provide the basis for viable coastal communities, with stable jobs both on boats and in the shore-based industry. Thus, in line with the fishermen's organisations, a broad majority in the Committee sees it necessary for the governance to regulate fleet capacity in all parts of the fishing fleet in a balanced manner. We must prevent the capacity of individual fleet groups from growing and creating pressure on the resource take-off, thereby jeopardising profitability and original jobs. Then there is also a broad majority who support the Government's proposal to establish a Structural Fund to secure access to funds to a buy-out and conditioning system for coastal fleets, through a first-hand transfer fee for fish. The Fund is one of several structural schemes that are currently being assessed in connection with the coastal fleet. The proposal points out that the combination of Structural Funds and other structural measures will, in total, shape the development of the coastal fleet and that the Ministry will see these instruments in context. Among the measures assessed are: work on special quota arrangements, which are currently on hearing proposals for the closure of several fisheries for some ship group proposals for the distribution of groups that have so far been so-called the Finnmark model I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge will be able to see these issues in the context of a matter of resource allocation and structural policy, which we will discuss in the spring of 2003. The Committee has set a short time limit for this matter to be submitted to the Stortinget, and I believe that most of the parties will understand that there is a more limited review that will come. For the Christian People's Party, we count, among other things, that these issues will be highlighted and discussed: How much does it mean that capacity should be built down?What consequences will the Structural Fund levy and the planned coastal fleet buy-out and conditioning scheme have? I am thinking here of consequences for the settlement, the landing pattern for fish, workplaces, even raw material access for industry, possible effects on recruitment for the fishing profession and expected effects of the distribution of fishing rights, debt loading and fishing capacity. An evaluation of structural measures already in place, such as the Finnmark model and aggregate quotas for part of the coastal fleet. I would also like to have a discussion of and a borderline between the quota exchange procedure and transferable quotas, and a political assessment of what kind of quota exchange should be allowed. After the Christian People's Party's opinion, it is important to prevent boats and quotas from accidentally being transferred to larger boats or ports in more central areas. We will therefore support around the measures taken by the Ministry of Fisheries to re-allocate quotas within relatively narrow size groups, and to prevent quotas from selling boats in our northernmost counties southwards. I look forward to dealing with this matter and would like to congratulate the Minister for Fisheries on his work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e311	When we went into the structuring of the marine fleet, hundreds of millions were used to give snorpers the working conditions they have today, and to reduce the fleet to a few. Has something gotten better? No, it hasn't gotten any better. The sea fishing fleet has been structured with the state's funds, with money granted by the Stortinget. And every one is struggling with the economy. When we're going to do the same thing in the coastal fleet, the ministry is going to have to get a legal base to do it through a structural system. A fee is payable by the individual. Is that equal to the law? Is that likeness for Jørgen hatmaker and Kristian shoemaker? I can't see it's that. It is a screaming injustice that when you have a small boat, you have to pay for it yourself, while when you have a large boat, you do not have to pay for anything. That's when the state has to pay. The need for structuring, the need for a system to improve the working conditions of the smaller fleet, I agree, but the Stortinget has told the Department that there should be better profitability and a better system. Wages and salaries for whom? The profitability of those swinging begs on Aker Brygge, with high pitchers? Or should it be profitable for his grandfather, who pulls out into his jack at 35 feet to fish? I'm just asking. It's the Storting that has said it should be this way. I have to ask again whether it is really necessary to get a legal home so early, when the entire structure of the coastal fleet is exposed for one year. We are not going to bring this up for debate. Is it necessary today to take decisions to seek legal support in order to implement a system that most people are opposed to? I don't understand. We know what happened in Iceland. There have been negotiable quotas for a long time. It has simply been lived according to the principle of ‘the richest is the most powerful’. And so it should be in Norway too, with the structural arrangements proposed. We know what that means. It's nothing new. And if you decide today to give the Department authority to implement this scheme, we also know that only the money is available. It's not about profitability, it's about the one that's the richest and the most powerful, getting the greatest rights. I say from here and now that I support the minority's proposal in the position that is on the table, and I will vote with the Labour Party and the Central Party on the matter that we are now going to adopt. I cannot, with my best will, go in for an arrangement that many of my constituents oppose. That would be the same thing as I threw them blues in their eyes. When we talk about a conditioning scheme, it has to be the same as what has been the previous years, and not a fee that has to be paid by the individual. Then we're on wild roads. And I don't think that's exactly what people want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e325	I am pleased that the Committee subscribes to the Government's proposal to legislate on a food-funded structural fund in order to ensure stable access to vessel owners' convenes who voluntarily want to take their vessels out of the fishery. I also note that the Government and the Committee agree that the national fisheries policy objectives that the Stortinget has drawn up in the past remain firm. But there are today, no matter how we see it, too many vessels fishing for too little fish, in both the sea and coastal fleet. The overcapacity of the fishing fleet therefore makes it more difficult to ensure the sustainable use of Community resources. Furthermore, overcapacity results in overall lower profitability than could otherwise be achieved at fleet level, although, depending on the quota sizes of each year, satisfactory results can be achieved for each vessel. Poor profitability for each holding also reduces the possibility of maintaining good, safe coastal, fleet and industrial jobs, and reduces the ability of individuals to make the necessary investments to ensure the supply of high-quality fish. Overcapacity also creates more or less permanent concerns about the allocation of resources between different groups of vessels. However, the distribution of resources between groups is currently stable. The challenge is to find alternative ways of adapting capacity to the resource base without involving a transfer of resources from one fleet group to another. The issue of structural measures for coastal fleets has been the subject of attention in recent years. The government of Stoltenberg also raised the question of a Structural Fund in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. The fleet has for a time had access to structural arrangements. Groups that have had access to structuring materials over time show improved profitability and better adaptation. The coastal fleet does not currently offer voluntary structural arrangements and the regulatory regime does not allow for individual adaptation. This challenge has been addressed by the Government, among others. in the case of the Structural Fund, in addition to voluntary operational and structural schemes. The Structural Fund will provide funds for a voluntary incentive scheme for those who, for various reasons, want to withdraw from fishing, as has been agreed by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, and all fleet groups will contribute to the levy, including those who have previously been structured only with taxpayers’ money. In addition to the establishment of the Structural Fund, the Government has also drawn up a proposal for operational and structural arrangements for coastal vessels below 28 metres. The proposal is now under consultation and the consultation deadline expires on 15 January 2003. In this way, it is at the forefront of the implementation of a possible Structural Fund. In the light of the many observations and comments made during the hearing, the Government considers it appropriate to provide further information on the content of the scheme, as agreed by the Committee, on the objective of the proposal and on the reactions generated in the consultation round. The Government considers it an appropriate basis for the Storting to be able to assess the proposal for the structural tax rate, which will be promoted in a separate proposal in connection with the revised 2003 national budget, based on new Section 9(b). Overall, in our proposals for coastal fleet structuring, the Government is seeking to ensure greater predictability in the allocation of resources and to facilitate the provision of good, stable and profitable jobs by fleets along our long-range coast. We also believe that we can contribute to the response of the majority of the Economic and Social Committee at the Innst. O. No 73 for 2000-2001, which states that: ‘It is necessary to provide for mechanisms to ensure a sustainable and cost-effective exploitation of all fishing resources and to contribute to increasing the value creation and profitability of the industry’. We believe that the Structural Funds and the arrangements to which they are to be given and the voluntary structural schemes should contribute. But I also add: the operational and structural arrangements we set up are based on volunteering. No one should be pushed into it. In this way, it is not possible to describe exactly the extent and geographical effects of structuring, as the Government will not impose any structuring. The scheme is voluntary. But when we present the matter to the Storting during the spring, we will at the same time ensure that it does not open up unintentional geographical redistribution or shifting of raw materials or rights between the different fleet groups. But there are aspects of the total package with which we will, of course, come back to Stortinget after the hearing is over. Therefore, it is not possible to go deeper into those issues either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e363	I have pondered the wording of the proposition that there is an indisputable fact that there is overcapacity in the coastal fleet. Yes, the technical capacity has increased. We can all be certain that it lies in the nature of technological development. But then what? Is there a problem in itself? Is the problem not related to overinvestment and not to capacity? How can it be a problem within today's regulation regime that a boat is able to take more fish than it has in quota? Isn't the problem that the allowance is too low in relation to the debt that a lot of people have worked up? Isn't the problem of overinvestment and not capture capacity, as the ministry says? Perhaps the most eye-catching thing about the entire material that is leading, and that we have for treatment today, is that nothing is said about how the quotas that the country buys are going to be distributed again. This is a specific issue when it concerns cod-dependent Group I fishing vessels. This is probably Greek for most people, but I expect the council to understand what I'm talking about. Should these quotas be spread flat across the whole group, or should they be allocated to Group I? Should they be distributed to the remaining vessels in the length group after which they were purchased in relation to the Finnmark model? What happens to the Group II fishermen? All fishermen shall pay a levy to the Structural Fund. Are the Group II fishermen going to pay to a fund that draws allowances that they don't benefit from, and is that fair in any way? So I registered that the representative Kristiansen said that the proposal had received unison support. I would like to challenge the Minister of Fisheries if the Council of State feels the same way. Does he feel that the proposal for the structuring and conditioning of the coastal fleet has received unison support along the coast? If the Council of State and the representative of Kristiansen are some, I must say that the three of us, representing the northernmost part of the country, do not live in the same reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e372	The debate on whether we have overcapacity or whether we have too small quotas is a debate that is going on. For me, there are two sides to the same thing. We have to note that we have a fishing capacity that far exceeds the resource base we have, and there is little reason to believe that the resource base should improve, so that we can get a profitability that allows fishermen and fishermen to renew the fleet. There are two important reasons for renewing the fleet. One is safety, getting a better working environment. I like the fishermen to have a profitability that allows them to renew the fleet and get good and safe jobs. The second is that in the future there will be questions about having boats that can take care of the whole fish – 100 pst. of the fish – because the whole fish, including what we call waste today, and what it should be, is going to be an important resource to take care of. Then we need a fleet renewal, so you can take care of it. It's right within that area, not just that part of the fish we're eating, but also the rest of the fish, that there will be great opportunities in the future. Some of the questions raised belong naturally to the statement we are going to make to the Storting on the operational and structural system. But it's firm – and it's been stuck all along on our side – that the allowances that are bought out are to be redistributed within the length group that is. And I have said quite clearly from the fact that the Finnmark model is solid, that is. that we imagine that there should be a redistribution within the group. But we're going to come back to that with a statement when we hear what the hearing bodies have to think about it. We have asked the hearing bodies to have views on whether we should open up quota exchanges, transfers within different length groups within a municipality. It's of the things that we're now going to get a statement about, but primarily we've suggested that it should be within the length group. Otherwise – yes, there is broad support for the proposals we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e381	Let me be a little concerned with the language first, because the Minister for Fisheries says he wants to ‘orient’ the Storting. I must then be allowed to say that what the Committee is asking for is an overall discussion of the different operational and structural arrangements before any new measures are introduced. We assume that's what we're given the opportunity to do, and I think it's worth recalling what the representative of the Christian People's Party referred to, and the conditions he thought were important in relation to such a discussion, both the question of how much capacity should be reduced, and the consequences for both landing patterns and settlement. I also think that is an important point. It is the case that the majority is not in principle opposed to conditioning schemes. But it is the combination of different schemes that some of us consider very problematic – the combination of the possibility of quota exchange, structural funds, unit quota schemes and other operational or structural arrangements. The Ministry says that the various instruments need to be seen in the context. Now I hear the honourable speaker in the debate here says he is strongly opposed to negotiable quotas. I totally agree with him. If that's a clear and clear right-hand position, that's good. But in a letter to the Department, the League of Fishermen said the following: ‘In this context, we will only point out that the introduction of such a liberal operating regime’ – quota exchange – ‘will lead to extensive movement of allowances in the coastal fleet and remove or significantly reduce the current over-regulation base...’ Does the Council not also see that the proposals currently under discussion in the organisations on so-called quota exchange are suspiciously similar to and likely to be confused with the trading of allowances and that it should be natural for one to have a deliberation of the margin between the type of quota exchange and tradable allowances, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e395	I see no contradiction here with what I have said in the letter to the Stortinget, and as the committee acknowledges in the vote, with regard to the matter we are going to present to the Stortinget. I also listened to the views expressed in the debate, not least by the Christian People's Party, on the content of that Great Britain, which will lie on the ground, and in good time, before the fixing of the levy rate and the implementation of the Structural Fund. I fully agree that different instruments need to be seen in the context. That is why the Structural Fund is only part of it. But without the Structural Funds, there will also be no full impact. I have also realized that the majority of the Biggest agree that these things need to be seen in the context. The Structural Fund must be implemented in order to have the effect of the other schemes envisaged. But then I must be allowed to say that it is nothing new that the Right and the majority of the Storting are against negotiable quotas. And our definition of transferable allowances is not like the definition that many people use to refer to, for example. Iceland. It's a negotiability that's completely different from what we have in Norway. Marketable allowances that we have today, to be approved by the authorities, are a scheme that has been under changing governments. And nothing new has come from this government in that way. Now we are in the process of discussing what is going on at the hearing, and the Storting should not be a hearing body in this way, but I would nevertheless like to remind you that the operating arrangements and quota exchanges we have proposed are planned to be implemented and will be allowed for three out of a maximum of five years. There are no permanent arrangements. Any such quota exchange shall be approved annually by the authorities and shall return to those who hold the original quota, in order to avoid any being able to sit on the paws and dingle with their feet and be a quota baron.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e404	The regulatory time for this afternoon's meeting is coming to an end, and the President will propose that we continue the negotiations until today's map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e407	Now I think this is starting to be an interesting exchange of views. Firstly, I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that the Stortinget will have the full opportunity to discuss the overall proposals for operational and structural arrangements that are now out for discussion. I think that is important, and it has to be done by sea before you can implement any kind of structural funds. I want to reserve myself against seeing the Structural Fund in a context of the rest, in that if one is for the Structural Fund, one must also be for the rest. That's not how it is. For some of us, it's the opposite. The Structural Fund itself does not have to be the most worrying, but the most worrying is the other schemes that have also been sent out for discussion by the Ministry of Fisheries. Then it is interesting both what the honourable Member said earlier in the debate and what the Minister for Fisheries is now confirming in the reply. The right is against negotiable allowances. So the Fisheries Minister says that the difference between tradable allowances and quota exchanges is that a quota exchange is time-limited. I don't think there is a sufficient limit in the ratio of quota exchanges to transferable quotas, and I think that his response to that point is a sign that we should have a more comprehensive debate on where the limit goes between transferable quotas, as a majority of this House is opposed, and a quota-exchange mechanism, as part of the operators in the fishing industry also sees as a negotiable quota. I'm going to challenge the Council of State to go a little bit closer to that. I would also like to ask whether he shares the views of the right-wing spokesman that we must come to life the turnover of allowances that is happening today, and that one is in a sort of tacit way. One sees it going through advertisements in the fishing magazine, and it happens across the ban on transferable allowances that we have today. Does the Minister for Fisheries want that practice to come to life, and how will he do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e422	I am a little surprised that the representative Marit Arnstad does not see the difference between what is today the so-called negotiable quota, where the vessel and the right to fish are traded, which must be approved by the authorities on a case-by-case basis, i.e. the placing on the market of vessels with rights, and what is in the cards is that we should promote so-called operational arrangements, i.e. quota exchange, which should be a time-limited system, where we can switch from year to year, and where the quota goes back to the person who originally has the right. One should, as we have suggested – we will see what the hearing bodies propose – for three out of a maximum of five years could make such a change. But that's when an exchange takes place from one year to another, and where the allowance is going back to the owner. The system we have today is so-called negotiable allowances, if we first use that term, but it's important that we define what's in the negotiability. It is important in this context to ensure that any placing on the market of vessels and allowances is subject to approval by the authorities. Anyone can buy a fishing vessel, but they are not granted a licence without authorisation. It's a completely different system than what you're looking at, for example. have in New Zealand and Iceland, a system that the Government so absolutely cannot propose implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e429	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e434	I'm sorry to have to extend the debate, but I'll try to be brief. Let me first quote from the committee setting: ‘In line with fishermen’s organisations, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Socialist Left Party, sees the need for the authorities to regulate the fleet capacity of all parts of the fishing fleet in a balanced manner, preventing the capacity of certain fleet groups from growing and creating pressure on the resource take-off and decreasing profitability of the original participants.’;» Just so it's settled. That's the one. Secondly, I would warn against anyone seeking to produce the situation so that there is something new going on in terms of quota exchange, negotiability, without taking into account the fact that the size within the seagoing fleet has decided on the introduction of a unit quota scheme. I believe some of the representatives should not forget who was the Council of State when the Stortinget took the necessary decisions after advice from a former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e447	After the last article, I felt the need to just underline and reinforce what the representative Kristiansen says. The introduction of incentive schemes through a Structural Fund is nothing more than what fishermen themselves have said through their decision in the Norwegian Fisheries Team that they want to get ahead and will be involved in financing themselves. And they've assumed that the state must also participate. But we have, as has been said earlier today by the representative of Kristiansen, in the last 40 years had different conditioning systems that have produced results. The first scheme came as early as 1960, and approx. 3500 vessels have already been surveyed by the various schemes. Only between 1960 and 1987, 650 million have been used. kr of taxpayers' money, and did not say that there is unnecessary use of money. This has been necessary, and there have been different magnifications and different governments recognized. Condemnation is also a tried and tested structuring measure in other countries. From 1998 until now, almost 200 million have been allocated to the State budget and the fisheries agreement. kr for coastal vessel reconnaissance. In this context, 109 coastal vessels, of which 44 in North Norway and 7 together in the two dry-water strata, have been conquered in the last three years, as an example. So this is nothing new. This is to strengthen systems that have been, and it is from Norway's Fiskarlag that we wish to implement this. And as I pointed out in my article, the government of Stoltenberg already raised the question of a structural fund in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, and the Government then stated that it would return to that case once the proceedings at the Norwegian Fisheries Association’s national meeting had been carried out. In this way, it's not new that this government is promoting it. This is in line with what was added from several governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e465	I feel the need to pick up the glove after the representative Ivar Kristiansen. As far as I can remember, Ivar Kristiansen has stated to the press that the sales we have of quotas today have gone too far, but unfortunately we don't know what to do with it. The purchase and sale of fish dishes is currently taking place in spite of the Stortinget's expressed will. It comes from, as the Council of State demonstrated quite clearly here today, that the department approves these sales. The Ministry approves that the right to fish has a value, has a price. This right is, of course, translated into the free market, as it is today. It's enough to read a number of the fishing leaves, and then you get it. Some have turned to millionaires to sell the right to fish – a right they have received for free and randomly, they have sold and received good money for. Of course, there's a difference in the free movement that you have in Iceland. The main difference is that this is done with approval from the department. This is about political will, and I understand that the representative Kristiansen needs to show that different councils have seats in the chair and approved this. Otherwise, I just want to show that the so-called structuring of the sea fishing fleet, and the introduction of a unit quota there, have not led to particularly better profitability for some of the voyage types – on the contrary. One has experienced an increase in capacity and investment in the billions class. For me, this is part of the wallpaper that is for the debate we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e478	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 190]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e494	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 191]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e510	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 191]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e526	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 192]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e542	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e549	I am pleased to see, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that the essential features of the draft law on compensation after criminal prosecution are today being unanimously adopted in Odelstinget. Exploring individuals and punishing them is a serious phenomenon. The Committee on Legal Affairs has also made it quite clear that it is one of the most serious things we can do to make mistakes in relation to such decisions. Hence, it is better for ten guilty to go free than for one innocent to be convicted. At a time when we are constantly pointing to criminal law and the criminal-prosecutive instruments as a way of solving the challenges of society, I am pleased that an overall justice system is just seeing the need to be strict, clear and completely consistent in relation to the question of what happens when damage has happened, in the ultimate sense, that is to say that one is faced with the murder of the judiciary. What has long been a problem with Norwegian legislation has been the fact that arguments have still been made that legislation is contrary to human rights. It's in itself a problem, and academicly and legally, many big numbers make out of it, and for good reason. But the most important thing is that we want legislation and criminal proceedings where, as a citizen of Norway, we can actually be sure that we have a criminal justice system that does everything we can to avoid errors. We need that at these times, whether it is enshrined in the Human Rights Convention or in other laws. In this way, it is particularly positive that the Government has so quickly, consistently and clearly followed up what I, as the case-rapporteur, feel is the main features of the Criminal Felony Council's investigation, and with the result that the Judicial Committee as a whole gives a position on the substance of the question of compensation after criminal prosecution. The most crucial thing about this is that the basic condition for getting compensation is no longer to prove your innocence, which has been perceived by many as a very difficult requirement to get around. The draft law now under discussion in Odelstinget is precisely in line with this. In other words, it is not through a process of getting compensation that a suspicion is shed. It is true that the legislative proposal well ensures precisely the situations where there is a need for compensation, where one is released, where the case is placed, where one has been imprisoned in violation of human rights rules, or where one has been convicted and has executed the penalty that later turns out to be too large, that is. you have been in prison for too long or have had to pay for strict fines. There's the bill very clear, and it's a joy. It is also good that we have now cleared up the rules for measuring the compensation and are also seeking to create a clear regulatory framework in relation to the issue of what upliftment, that is. non-economic compensation for which the pursuers can now be entitled to a legitimate claim. There are two areas where there has been a conflict with this bill. It's sad, because by this we could have searched and got a completely unanimous committee. I also need to briefly explain the areas where the Committee has disagreed. The first point, and that's not a very important point, is the question of whether you can cancel the replacement once you have refused to make a police statement. There it is that the Workers' Party and SV believe that the Government goes too far in the proposal that is now on the table, by giving the courts access to cancel the compensation or letting the compensation fall completely away when they have refused to give an explanation, and where there is no reasonable reason to do so. In our opinion, this is a way of violating the obvious right enshrined in Norwegian criminal proceedings, to refuse to give an explanation. This is a right enshrined in many other countries and the criminal proceedings of regimes. Among other things, in the US Constitution, this is an obvious right. It is in our opinion also contrary to the Convention on Human Rights to limit the right to refuse to make a police statement. That doesn't mean we have to try to get people to make police statements, because it does people to a great extent. But it would be wrong to ‘punish them’ afterwards by cutting the compensation, because in many cases it would be almost completely impossible for him to prove to a Norwegian court that there was a reasonable reason to refuse to give an explanation. Then we can actually bring him into a situation where he feels in many ways the fear of what he should have explained, or we put him in a very difficult situation because he has to provide information that is precisely the basis for him at some point refusing to make a police statement. Therefore, it is sad that this overall good bill gets this stain on itself. To the extent that contributions to the main hall are used as legal sources, whether it be majority or minority, I will, at least for the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, have a strong focus on the fact that the courts have a discretionary opportunity, for reasonable reasons, to emphasise this. Based on the listed rights, inter alia: in the European Convention on Human Rights, at least these two parties consider that it is essential to be extremely cautious to intervene, as this may actually be contrary to the provisions on human rights. The other relationship that we have raised in the vote is the question of free trial or free trial in the cases brought before the courts in relation to this complex. There's a strange thing about reading the majority's position, because you're essentially based on some kind of success criterion, that if you've done your thing, you can get a free trial. It's sad, firstly because it breaks with a long tradition in Norway, because we haven't actually attached it to giving free action to the outcome of the case. But it's also sad because it can be slowing down compared to those who obviously have good things, but who for different reasons don't get any more compensation by bringing it in to the courts. In this way, this bill is a step backwards from what has been common practice. That is the background to the proposal on which the Workers' Party and the SV agree that, even when these cases are brought before the courts, they should continue to be entitled to a free defender. I remember that we are still facing situations where there are people who are either freed from very serious accusations, there are cases that have been committed, or there are repeated cases, and where people have suffered a great deal from being subjected to criminal prosecution, and then at last you have to face the fact that you do not have the right to free counsel. That is regrettable in relation to the whole of this proposal. But I'm going to be so clear in the end and say that overall we have got a bill that is a very good step forward, and that makes it possible that when we are likely to adopt more forced homes and more severe penalties in this country in the future, there is a safety net in the background that means that when you fall into error, the damage will not be so great, and it will be remedied financially to the extent that it can be of any help. Finally, I would like to address the two proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e583	Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e586	Today, we are to adopt several important changes to the rules on compensation after criminal prosecution, changes that will strengthen legal certainty in relation to current rules and will make it easier for persons who have been subjected to illegal criminal prosecution to receive compensation. Unfortunately, it is not to be avoided that the fight against crime sometimes commits errors and causes innocent people to lose. For the individual, a false accusation could cause irreplaceable losses, both economic and human. To some extent, the state may help to reduce losses by means of financial compensation, but under current rules, compensation has proved difficult, because the law demands proof of innocence for compensation. The Government's proposals for changes contribute to a better implementation of the protection under international human rights. After the proposal, a claim for compensation shall be dismissed or dismissed if the prosecution has resulted in a financial loss for him. Thus, there is no longer any requirement that he should be sure that he has not committed the act. The fact that you're free from trial will be enough to get you the right to compensation. But it is also very important not to make rules at the same time that can help to weaken the fight against crime. If the legislative changes result in police and prosecution authorities becoming more cautious with their instruments in fear of substitution measures, society will lose against the criminal forces. In the Right’s view, the Government’s proposal for rules on the cancellation or reduction of compensation is rules which would ensure that no investigation was initiated or the judgment itself. It is in the interests of society that as many criminal cases as possible be resolved. In order to clarify criminal cases and not least to be able to clean innocents, the explanation of the case is often crucial. In the Government’s proposal, the fact that a person’s aim is not to do what he can to cleanse himself of the suspicion, including refusal to explain himself, could lead to a reduction or loss of compensation. I have registered that the representative Storberget today, both in the hall and in the media, has been out and claimed that this proposal is contrary to human rights. On the right, it will strongly reject this and, unlike the Workers' Party and SV, it does not believe that it is worthwhile to counteract the clarification of a case. If you are innocently sighted, you will normally do everything in your power to clean yourself, also explain yourself without reservation. Furthermore, the proposal provides for a discretionary assessment, in which the compensation is not reduced where it has a reasonable or justifiable reason to refuse to explain itself. To the right, it is important that compensation after criminal prosecution is, as far as possible, only beneficial to the innocent in fact, and we believe that it is important that the law prevents and prevents criminals from speculating in this type of compensation. Furthermore, it is important for public confidence that the system works as intended. Legal certainty for the individual subject to criminal prosecution is very important. But it is also important that a change of laws does not mean that people are afraid to report criminal acts, because the evidence may not be strong enough, for example. a rape that can often be words against words. If a fear that the person will be released and thus be compensated may erode the trust in the system. Such a reduction rule is therefore important, and fortunately the government parties and the Progress Party ensure a majority in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e607	Being subjected to a false prosecution is an obvious burden that cannot go unnoticed. It's not just a matter of financial loss, it's also a mental burden, also for the related. In this context, it is important that the entire Committee sees that today's rules for uplifting are too strict. The question will then be whether it should be an objective liability, or can we at least expect that the criminal prosecution has helped to clarify the matter? It is, as has been said, a principle that one should not be forced to explain himself either to the police or to the court if one is the defendant. This is a principle that has to be established. The question arises as to whether the principle is so essential that a person should be able to be compensated even if he does not provide an explanation which may shed light on the facts. The fact that a person is not automatically to be judged if he does not wish to explain himself does not give him an independent right to compensation when he does not contribute to clarifying the matter. Should a few claims be made, one should at least have tried to contribute to the provision of information obtained from the case. Total inactivity may hardly have the effect of causing a person to act in a manner that should qualify for compensation. I don't think many people will wonder, but it would be strange if some people consider it appropriate to keep quiet and withhold information until the final court hearing, because this would provide a substitute for the state. Everyone has a responsibility to provide the right information as soon as possible. In the case of free legal aid for claimants, the Party considers that it is appropriate to grant it during the administrative trial process. In this respect, it would often appear that the claimant is given its decision by the other party, the State. Then it's important to have a spokesman to be able to be heard in a good way. The same assessments are based on the fact that they also support the need for the State to cover legal expenses where judicial proceedings lead to a not insignificant improvement in the outcome of the claimant. We can't see that anyone who believes they're being unjustly prosecuted is going to get blank cheques to run their cases throughout the justice system regardless of what the case is like. It is such that one here adds up to a solution that goes under the normal rules on free legal aid for legal expenses, but with a very good solution for those claimants who actually have a case that gives a different and better result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e620	I'm going to be quick, because the representative Knut Storberget made an excellent contribution that highlighted very clearly what SV stands for in this matter, unfortunately not so clearly that the representative of Greece was able to bring it with him. That is why I thought I would repeat some of the key in relation to having to reduce the amount of compensation if you have refused to explain yourself. So this is not about us accepting that someone actively opposes the fact that the matter is being clarified, but this is about passively refusing to explain itself. We reason that it is often difficult for a person to know what is the reason he has refused to explain, and that it is therefore difficult to find out whether there is a reasonable assessment behind it or not. That is why the two parties, SV and the Workers' Party, believe that it should only be when information on the matter has been actively opposed, that the amount of compensation should be reduced, or that the compensation should be cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e627	Criminal prosecution, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences are in the interests of society. Crime is being combated, inter alia: through police investigation. It is a work that has both a preventive and a corrective function. But the police and the prosecution authority may also feel wrong. Innocents can be prosecuted for crimes. The costs to those who experience this are significant. Although the visibility is not followed by a charge, more people experience that the term ‘no smoke without fire’ hangs with them throughout the year. I believe the proposals in Ot.prp. No 77 for 2001-2002 in several ways will make it easier for persons who have been innocently charged with criminal proceedings. The proposals contained in the proposal are in principle, and the reform has several objectives. Firstly, it shall strengthen the rights of persons who have been prosecuted innocently. The presumption of innocence is enshrined both in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. Today’s decision will do so in a better way than in the past. Secondly, the reform seeks to avoid eroding the fight against crime by providing compensation for the actual culprits or persons who oppose the settlement of criminal cases. For the Christian People's Party, it is a central point to have compensation rules that fulfil Norway's obligations under the human rights conventions. It shall not be such that persons released by the courts must prove their innocence in order to qualify for compensation. Today's system can be difficult to practice without breaking the principle that everyone is innocent until they are convicted. If you're free in court, you're per. definition innocent. The government's proposal takes the consequences of just that. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that even those who have had the status of suspects can be compensated. The legal basis for this is provided by both the Criminal Procedures Act and the Damage Compensation Act. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that investigation can be very intrusive to individuals, despite the status of suspected and not as intended in the case. However, the majority of the Judicial Committee does not wish to change the practice of suspected claims rules. The Christian People's Party is pleased that it will now be explicitly stated in the Criminal Procedures Act that human rights violations qualify for compensation. Norway has been criticised, for example: for the improper use of custody and insulation. At international level, Norway maintains a high profile of human rights. It should be a matter of course that we follow up internally. I hope that the clarification that is now being made in Section 444(c) of the Criminal Procedure Act will increase the awareness of human rights, both in the police and in criminal matters. If, for no reasonable reason, the person to whom the person addressed has refused to explain, refused to disclose the case, caused criminal proceedings or failed to limit the damage, the compensation shall be reduced or eliminated altogether. The Christian People's Party has carefully assessed whether denial of explanation as a basis for reducing compensation would be contrary to the principle of self-incrimination. A court has the right to refuse to explain itself to the police and to the court. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is essential that it should not pay to refuse to contribute to the settlement of a criminal case. Therefore, we believe that refusing to explain itself should provide a basis for a reduction in compensation. However, I would like to clarify that such a reduction in compensation cannot be made if the defendant had a reasonable reason to refuse to explain himself. The Government’s proposal for compensation rules means that the recipient is entitled to full compensation for financial losses resulting from any investigation, not just imprisonment. The conditions for upliftment, compensation for non-economic losses are relaxed. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to emphasise that, when invasive coercive measures and investigation measures have been used, the threshold must be low in order to become known as reprisals. The new compensation rules must be practised in a way that ensures efficiency, legal certainty and non-discrimination. The Christian People's Party believes that these considerations are taken into account in the Government's proposal that the claim be settled administratively in the first instance. The Judicial Committee has been divided into the question of whether or not those claims should be dealt with freely in the courts. The Working Party and SV consider that free action should be given. The Christian People's Party disagrees with this. We think it is unfortunate whether it is completely risk free to bring a case before the court. We fear that such a system will cause an unnecessary number of cases to be brought before the courts. When the Storting accedes to the Government's proposal promoted in Ot.prp. No 77, we're strengthening our humanistic penal system. Until you're convicted, you're innocent. Now it is shown in action and not just through words.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e657	Odelstingen is currently examining proposals for a number of fundamental changes to the rules on compensation following criminal prosecution. I am pleased that a substantially unanimous judiciary member has joined the proposal and is thus completing the course which started with the suspension of the Penal Peace Council, beginning on 5 May 1995, released on 18 September 1996 and sent to the hearing on 7 November 1996. Our criminal proceedings have incorporated a number of legal safeguards. The guarantees shall ensure that innocent persons are not convicted and that innocent persons are minimised in the course of the investigation. However, despite these guarantees of legal certainty, from time to time innocent people become victims because of the criminal prosecution of society. At that time, society is responsible both for detecting wrongs that have been committed and for correcting errors as far as possible, including: by providing financial compensation to the person to whom it is addressed. The Judicial Murder Commission, which I took the initiative to investigate and which will enter into force in 2003, will help to strengthen the possibility of detecting errors committed by the criminal justice system. The legislative proposal under consideration today relates to the second aspect, namely how society should deal with the damage suffered by a person in criminal proceedings. The proposal put forward by the Government implies that those who have been the victims of prosecution without guilt are given an extended claim for compensation. The proposal strengthens the rights of persons who have been prosecuted innocently. At the same time, it has been an important objective to prevent the suppression of crime by providing compensation for persons who have actually committed the offence. In order to address both of these two important considerations, six key points of change have been proposed: First of all, I would like to highlight the proposal to lift the condition that a court or tribunal should be required to make sure that he has not committed the action in order to obtain compensation. Thus, the persons in custody who are acquitted or have their case dismissed are entitled to a claim for compensation as a starting point. There is a risk today that if the person concerned loses the case, the impression is created that the person concerned is actually guilty. We should avoid that. The proposal also reinforces the implementation of the presumption of innocence in the European Convention on Human Rights. Furthermore, in any event, losses resulting from non-compliance with human rights shall give rise to legal claims for damages. Where the conditions for claims for compensation are not met, it is proposed that the person to whom the claim is addressed be entitled when it appears reasonable. Fourthly, I believe that the compensation should be reduced or dropped if the person in charge of his conduct has contributed to the investigation or to the conviction. It would seem unreasonable for the person to be compensated for any loss he has contributed to. If, for example: it opposes the disclosure of the case by making false confessions or by influencing witnesses, it should be able to provide a basis for the reduction or termination of compensation. It should also be possible for the compensation to be reduced or eliminated if the person concerned has refused to explain himself, without reasonable cause, against the information in question. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee fully supports the proposal on this point. I have noticed that a minority in the Judicial Committee is in favour of an explanation denial not being able to justify the removal or reduction of the requirement. In my opinion, such a solution would have been unfortunate. It is reasonable that the person to whom it is addressed should not be forced to choose between declaring himself false or contributing to his own conviction. But in the matter of compensation, it must be possible to consider whether the person in question has done what is in his power to clean himself. If he does not do so, but, on the contrary, he does not choose to contribute to the settlement of the matter, he has helped to ensure that the prosecution has taken place. It is his right to do so, but he must then accept that no compensation is paid or, to a lesser extent, not paid. Something else could easily have led to confounding results. Fifthly, I believe that retaliation for non-economic damage should be acknowledged when targeted persons have been deprived of liberty. Detention is an intervention that is usually felt to be a heavy burden on the person being sighted. I therefore believe that the person to whom it is addressed should have legal claims for renunciation. The same applies to sighted persons who are released after having endured the imprisonment penalty. The last proposal for a change in the proposition that I want to make concerns the proposal that claims for compensation be settled administratively in the first place. It is unnecessary to rule on all claims in the first round. The system is reassuring because the claim can be brought before the courts for full review. These changes require administrative and financial preparation before the law can be brought into force. The English philosopher Jeremy Bentham must once have stated, freely translated, that an assault in criminal prosecution itself is a serious mistake, but not correcting it in the most fair way possible undermines the entire order of society. These are wise words, and in my view this is also a comprehensive summary of the debate that is taking place here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e687	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e690	There are only two issues that I would like to comment on from the debate. The first is the question of whether it is important to refuse to make a police statement. Let it be clear from this pulpit that I believe that we should encourage and ensure that a system where possible, as far as possible, contributes with its police declarations. But the question is really, and after I have heard the representative Marthinsen: are we facing a right to refuse to give an explanation, or are we not? In fact, the concept of rights has to be something more than just words. There must be a right more than just in the name, also in the benefit. To the extent that you start to make that right more difficult and more difficult and, finally, more illusory, by saying that we should punish you if you don't make a police statement, because then you risk not being compensated for the unjust persecution you are now subjected to – I guess the aim is to know that when he makes his police statement – we actually help to weaken that right, which is a very important guarantee of legal security. That's how I believe that the Christian People's Party in this matter, as in some other matters, can not only talk about the right, while at the same time weakening it and, at my discretion, making it highly illusory. For the person in charge, and eventually perhaps also for the sentence, there is only a chance of creating some of the status quo after a serious criminal prosecution, and that may be through economic repair. That's why it's not going to be right, and the representative of Thorkildsen did well. But it is not right when the head of the Judicial Committee says that we from the Workers' Party and SV say that it should not be profitable to oppose clarification of a case. That is what we are proposing. It is precisely that you can make a claim when you have actively withheld information about the matter. In such important principles as this, I would have expected that at least they would operate with a correct fact. Finally, on the question of legal aid: it is a bit striking that you should have a free lawyer and free legal advice in the administrative procedure. Then the representative also says Kukkestad that it is important to have a spokesman. Why isn't it important to have a spokesman when you go to court, where you really need actors to talk for yourself? Why is it not important when you have come so far? That's where it's important to have a spokesman. That's where you use oralism. That's where you sue, and then you don't have to pay for your lawyer. This is not a matter of concern. The problem is that you have a right to a free lawyer until you get to court, and once you have selected that line, you should drive it out completely in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 192]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e719	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for each of the other groups and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e726	Ot. pp. No 109 for 2001–2002 deals with several and, in part, different proposals from the Government. It is discussed whether racist organisations and demonstrations should be banned, but it is not recommended. It is proposed to clarify that racist symbols are covered by the paragraph of the Penal Code of Racism. Furthermore, amendments are proposed to the prohibition of visits and to the provisions of the Criminal Code on a criminal framework in the event of competition. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to review the main features of the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Judicial Committee has carefully assessed whether racist organisations should be prohibited by law. Racist organisations, racist groupings and racist attitudes challenge essential fundamental values on which our society is built and poses a threat to its minorities. The individual's experience of equivalency and quality of life is incompatible with racism. Racism must be combated in all its forms! Will a ban on racist organisations be an appropriate and effective means of combating racism? The Judicial Committee believes that it may be more difficult to stop the recruitment of racist organisations if they are to operate more effectively than at present in the hidden. The consequence of a legislative ban on racist organisations could easily be that organisations of this type go underground. In addition, the Committee recognises that it will be difficult to enforce an organisation ban before criminal offences have been committed. According to the view of the Christian People's Party, one should, on a principle basis, be restrained by a ban on organisation, because such a ban can be misused as an argument for restrictions that go beyond purpose and as an argument for totalitarian regimes. We will therefore achieve little from a social point of view by banning legislation. This is why a joint committee supports the Government’s proposal not to impose a legal ban on racist organisations. Whether racist demonstrations should be prohibited is also discussed in the proposition. A ban is not recommended either by the Government or by the hearing bodies. I would like to point out that the third paragraph of Section 11 of the Police Act has been used by, among others. Oslo Police District to ban a racist demonstration that was assessed would disrupt public order. The Judicial Committee has stressed that current legislation provides for the possibility of banning demonstrations. We have also emphasised to the hearing bodies the adequacy of legislation as it is today. The Committee therefore does not support the adoption of a specific criminal order against racist demonstrations. The majority of the Judicial Committee considers that there is a need to clarify in the paragraph of the Criminal Code that racist symbols are also subject to the prohibition. Such clarification will make it easier for schools, leisure clubs and parents to regulate what children and young people can carry from symbols. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this clarification in the penal law § 135a does not result in a rotation of police focus, from racist statements to racist symbols. The group of people who might be in conflict with the paragraph of racism is probably much larger than those who carry racist symbols. Therefore, the police need a broad focus to detect breaches of the ban, both against racist statements and symbols. The system of visiting bans is an important tool to protect individuals from violence, persecution, infringement or other criminal offences. The changes proposed by the Government in Section 222a of the Criminal Procedures Act will clearly make the provision for a visit ban more accessible and thus make the scheme more familiar and more widespread. It is imperative that the police apply the ban provision where necessary. In the position of the Judicial Committee, an overall committee clarifies that the ban provision must be applied equally throughout the country. When there is a risk that a person, for example: will be subjected to violence, the protection provided by the police and the public must be the same – regardless of where you live. The changes proposed by the Government in the restraining order will contribute to greater clarity on the intention and purpose of the legislator. The impact of the amendment is likely to be both more similar to police practice in imposing a restraining order and, furthermore, individuals at risk will have increased legal certainty. It is now important for the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the prosecution authority applies the provision in line with Stortinget’s intention. Persons who are victims of domestic abuse by their spouses, cohabitants or others should be able to be assured by the imposition of an infringement visitation ban which also includes their home. This is necessary in order to ensure that persons who are injured in their own homes are protected on the premises where the risk of the infringement is greatest. Interpreting in cases such as: domestic violence is not required to move, the victim must choose between moving or remaining in a difficult situation. This option is unreasonable to impose on the injured party. An overall committee therefore supports the Government's proposal that Section 222a of the Criminal Procedures Act should provide a separate basis for the imposition of a visit ban in their own home. The Justice Committee has made a conscious choice here. We're on the side of the victim of violence. People who expose others to violence shall not take precedence, even to their own homes. We recognise, however, that a visit ban which prohibits residence in our own home is intrusive. For this reason, and in order to ensure a level playing field in visiting prohibition practices, it is important to provide a concrete basis for this in the legislative text. The restraining order at home shall be enforceable only for three months at a time. However, the law does not set an absolute limit on the length of the total ban on visits in their own home. To the extent that the remaining person or persons in the home have not been able to find another suitable place of residence within three months, a visit ban in their own home should normally be extended. For the Judicial Committee, it is important that judicial review of the imposition of a visit ban is carried out as soon as possible. This is of great importance to the person subject to the visitation ban. In the committee's position, we ask the Ministry of Justice to report back to the Stortinget to what extent the police prioritise the work on these kinds of issues. The Government Parties support the Government's proposal to amend Section 62 of the Criminal Code. The change means that the upper penalty framework for competition is raised to twice the most severe offence indictment, contrary to today's rule, where the maximum penalty framework is one and a half times the penalty framework in the strictest criminal penalty imposed in the case. This proposal is supported by a majority through the Subsidy of the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party believes that it is particularly necessary to raise the level of punishment in matters relating to violent and sexual offences. We have previously pointed out that the level of penalties for so-called normal crimes in such cases is too low. In general, crimes against the individual are offensive to the extent that criminality should be reflected in the measured punishment to a greater extent than is the case today. During the hearing, the Public Prosecutor’s Office has been particularly concerned with the low level of penalties in the case of extensive and repeated profitability crimes. In order to strengthen the protection of society from the harmful effects of the activities of the victors and from more general considerations of proportionality, the Christian People's Party believes that the level of penalties should also be raised in these kinds of cases. Otherwise, I refer you to the position of the Justice Committee in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e770	I'll try to be short. With regard to the three issues that are being dealt with here, there is probably one reflection that comes forward, both in relation to the fight against racism, the fight against violence and the prevention of violent convictions and also those aimed at violence moving in areas where we do not want to have them. These three proposals have a common denominator in many ways, and it is primarily that we cannot stare blindly at the instruments that we actually have in the criminal proceedings. In this way, I must say that I think it is commendable that, in the light of the debate we have had on the fight against racism, we stop at the point that the ministry here is making in its proposal, and that the majority of the Judicial Committee is also doing in relation to a possible ban on organisations – mainly because there is another important signal in this. It is that criminal law is in many ways insufficient to combat increasing racism out there, and that it is in fact in other arenas and by other means the majority of population believe that it should be combated. With regard to the proposal that is now on the table with regard to symbols, it is obvious that many have thought that it was already covered by the law. But the clarification done seems necessary. It is, in the opinion of the undersigned and the Workers' Party, also a good idea. However, there is reason to point out that for those who had to hear the debate, and for others interested, this does not mean for the Labour Party – and I suppose it also applies for the whole majority – that efforts against organised racism are actually being slowed down, rather against. It should be combated, but, as I said, in other arenas and by other means than those immediately available to us in the Judicial Committee. I think it's important to have it said. The proposal for Section 62 of the Criminal Code requires some comments from the Workers' Party. This is a proposal that we are opposed to. We argue against this proposal a lot after the same lines. There is a need to tighten up criminal sanctions in the case of repeat crime, and there is a need to tighten up criminal sanctions for several types of violence. We have seen a criminal intensification when it comes to rape, and criminal intensification is necessary in several areas. It's quite obvious. However, the Workers' Party has in many ways chosen to fall to the conclusion reached by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, on page 40 of the Proposition: ‘The Hearing Round has confirmed that questions can be raised as to whether there is a real need for legislative amendment...’» We are of the opinion that then one should be careful to address this kind of symbol policy — as is also mentioned by the hearing bodies — when one sees that the effect is marginal. The problem is when you take, for example, the question of gross thefts where one wants a penalty tightening for the repeaters, that 95 pst. Of the 2,550 responses to gross theft last year in this country, fines or prisons were less than one year. Ten reactions occurred in prison for three years or more, while maximum penalties did not occur. It was in a situation where the maximum penalty for one gross theft is six years, repeated gross thefts are nine years, and now the majority wants to get it up to twelve years. I think that is the basis for saying that this dangerous approach to symbolism policy, which then probably won't have any effect on the problem you're facing. Finally, such a line would eventually demand a debate on how far to go in order to combat these social evils by constantly calling for stricter penalties, taking into account the increased burden on the criminal justice system and most of the tasks we have actually given to the criminal justice system, both in relation to custody, in relation to the problems of parole and in relation to the queues we see. This is the background to the fact that a minority in the Committee will oppose this amendment to the penal code § 62.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e792	International conventions signify how we should behave to the right to organise ourselves. We have obligations to the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination, which explicitly states that racially discriminatory organisations should be banned. On the other hand, Norway has international obligations in relation to freedom of organisation. Freedom of association is enshrined in the EMC – European Convention on Human Rights – Article 11 and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 22. It goes without saying that the right to express itself fully could violate the United Nations Convention on Racial Discrimination. So there's going to be an embarrassing exact limit that has to be trodden up. There won't be a matter of taste and pleasure, or what each individual had to have of personal feelings. There must be a clear and comprehensible dividing line between where the boundary goes for what is racism. The law against racist statements will only have meaning if the courts are able to judge violations of § 135a. Today, the law is unclear and vague and complicates the work of the courts. Groups in the population also believe that freedom of expression is being threatened. The law must therefore be clarified. The law will have better clarifications than before, which will make a clearer distinction between what is prohibited and what is not. Improved clarification of the law can also contribute to increased use of the provision. The amendment to the law will make it easier for schools, youth organisations, leisure clubs and families to set clear rules on what kind of symbols young people can carry. However, the new law provides many dilemmas. In many cases, restrictions on the use of symbols would restrict freedom of expression. Freedom of expression must go far in democracy. Its more restrictions on permitted opinions introduce democracy in order to protect individual groups or the entire population, the greater the possibility that these opinions and attitudes cannot be combated. A democracy that must protect itself against the various forms of expression of fear of what such an expression may entail is a shattered democracy. The best way to combat unacceptable attitudes is through the dissemination of knowledge in debate and by argumentation. This strengthens democracy and strengthens the right of expression. We could prohibit the use of racist symbols on a general basis. The question will then be: will the groups that stand for unacceptable racist attitudes stop using these symbols or simply introduce new symbols? With pleasure and general frustration, they could play dogs and cats with public authorities. The Justice Committee was visiting New York and experienced how the police had solved the secret language of various gangs. What was typical was that new codes, symbols, and languages were used to maintain the secret language. The most important thing in this case is that the use of symbols is to be put in context with how they are used. It's not an interpretation of what the symbol itself means, but it's de facto how the expression or the symbol is done and what the expression is. If symbols are used together with racist statements or racist behaviour, this is affected by § 135a of the Penal Code, the so-called paragraph of racism. There is not enough passive use of symbols, but requires an active use of symbols to hit ethnic groups. In my opinion, freedom of expression is not violated, because the paragraph of the penal code does not apply until there is an active, not passive, use of symbols that is the coin of attacking ethnic minorities. Prohibiting racist organisations will also, in my view, be counterproductive. Secret and underground organisations are not a good solution for the future. It will make the work of society more difficult to bring about the survival of racism. Its more bans on people with racist attitudes, its more opportunistic to be able to participate only with that justification and not perhaps because of the racist case. Transparency is a prerequisite for democracy with democratic instruments to combat racist expressions. Attitudes are not always eliminated by police force. We can control the behavioral pattern of most, but society's ability to counter racist attitudes is only done through open democratic channels. The ban on racist demonstrations comes as a result of restrictions on the use of racist symbols. A demonstration is an action using symbols for one purpose: to violate human dignity and spread racism. The aim is not to promote views, but to encourage racist attitudes and behaviour. Then I'll say a little about a restraining order. One of the proposals is to have the opportunity to ban visits even at home. It shall not be such that a mother with a child must leave her home simply because the violent father stands as the owner of the house. However, a restraining order is only to be used as a crisis response and requires rapid treatment. That is why we are in favour of clarifying and simplifying the rules and conditions of procedure. This is the case with competition, and when you have more criminal acts at the same time, you increase the penalties. It is important to point out to the courts that the Stortinget clearly wants a reinforced criminal framework for several crimes committed at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e818	As far as the Progress Party is concerned, this has also been an interesting odelstningsproposition affecting three important aspects: the first concerns racism and its attitudes. One thing must be clear: the party of progress takes a distance from any form of racism. Nevertheless, in this case, we have found that with regard to the proposal to ban racist symbols, we will go against it. We have also noted that there is considerable disagreement in the hearing opinions on how to deal with this. The concern of those who oppose the introduction of such a ban is that it will focus on symbols and not on attitudes. It is a concern shared by the Progress Party. We're afraid that by focusing on symbols we get a spin away from what's important. We also record, as I said, that there is a relatively large proportion of these between the stakeholders about what they actually want to do. I would like, among other things: refer to what the Criminal Felony Commission says in relation to what this study group has proposed: ‘The Commission has not found any point of view on the understanding on which the majority of the study group is based and assumes that it is also contrary to the normal understanding of the provision.’ Furthermore, we share the opinion of the Advocate General when he points out that an extended ban on the use of symbols could lead to a lack of identification of the enemy, namely that the focus is shifted from the fight against attitudes to the fight against symbols. Against this background, we will vote against the proposal to ban racist symbols. In the case of another subject which is affected here, which is subject to a restraining order, it is quite clear that it is also important for the Progress Party that we take a settlement with this. The reason is that this is some of the worst kind of violence that actually happens. It usually takes place within the home's four walls, and it's the closest to the losers. And to the extent that we can do something about it, we commit ourselves to actually addressing this, not least in relation to the kids who are directly affected, and who may be horrified when they come home from kindergarten and from school, to what will happen to it and that afternoon and that and that night. That is why it is also important for the Progress Party to support this proposal. It's about caring for the weak party in a couple relationship. Of course, it's a drastic step to put a restraining order into someone's own home, but in a few cases it'll be the best solution, and it'll be the only safe thing. We assume, of course, that when considering the imposition of a visit ban, a thorough review and a proper assessment of it should be carried out before such an action is taken. It's pretty serious when you tell someone to leave their own home. The last theme affected here is a theme of competition. I have heard the representative of Storberget point out that the penalty framework is not used well enough today. I think he's right about that. It is probably one of the challenges facing Stortinget in communicating to the courts what is actually the current political stance in this Chamber. It is possible that we are talking past each other, it is possible that the courts think that the punishment they are already doing today is good enough, but at the same time there is a political signal in the proposal that exists from the Government. Then I hope and believe that the courts will also take this inward when you propose a tightening of the type that's ahead. In the case of the Progress Party, we would have preferred to see a number of people go further, we believe that every criminal act should be punished individually. We're a principal opponent of this quantum discount, as it's so popularly called. I am also fascinated by a note from the Workers' Party and the SV, which the representative Storberget was in place, which points out that ‘The prison population in Norway today is large enough, we are struggling with long settlement cows and with starving criminal care. This is not in favour of increasing the number of prisoners and extending their sentences’. So it's going to be the approach to the reconciliation cows that are involved, not the criminal act. In any case, such logic will take a strong distance from the Advance Party, because then we think we are making a solid record bomb on the matter. I would like to raise our proposal in relation to § 62, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Of course, if this excellent proposal against presumption were to fall, we would support the proposals of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e841	Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposal he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e844	It is tempting to say that with the Progress Party in government we would not have built enough prisons. I choose – at least for the time being – to leave the article on competition to the representatives of the Labour Party, because our two parties have a common position on that particular matter. Rather, I am going to concentrate my article on the issue of a restraining order in my own home, because there are some special comments that we stand alone about. I think this is a great day. The Judicial Committee incorporates the proposal to ban visits in its own home a long step towards putting the responsibility for violence where it belongs, namely with the perpetrator. I think it is great, responsible and courageous of the Minister of Justice to propose the clarification that needs to be made, so that everyone is aware that violent people can be removed from their own homes when violence takes place at home. This proposal was in its time proposed by the SV's representative, Mr Ågot Valle, to former Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem, after the crisis centre secretariat had repeatedly identified the injustice we are committing to violence, most often women and children, when it is those who must take the consequences of the violence of men at home, because they – the victims – are the ones who are moving out, most often to a crisis centre. SV believes it is particularly important that we never allow the responsibility for violence to be shifted to the victims, and in particular it is important to protect the children. This is therefore an important and correct decision. At the same time, I think we could do more, and we could do some things differently. Firstly, I think it is sad and even irresponsible that the majority of the committee, all except the SV and the Workers' Party, have not understood the importance of dealing with violent people. It doesn't help to get violent people out of their homes or to jail them as long as they don't get help to stop using violence. The result will be new victims of violence, new ruined lives – lives that we can actually save, and that we have a duty to save. Alternatives to Violence – I do not stop muttering about them – have been shown in a recently published book, ordered by the Government through the Action Plan ‘Violence against Women’, that 60–70 pst. by violent men stop beating if they receive adequate treatment. In fact, ATV is the country’s best offer of violence, probably one of the world’s best, and thus prevention. My concern is that those men, who are mainly men who will be subject to the new ban, who will now be forced out of their homes, will work up a dangerous aggression and revenge, among others. as a result of enhanced abstinence. In other words, these men could pose a risk to the lives and health of women and children — and possibly others. It is therefore extremely important for the Government to follow this development closely, and it is my hope that it will see the importance of an enhanced and stable ATV in the future. This would be a very profitable investment in that case. For the concrete formulation of the proposal: SV supports Jurk, Legal Counselling for Women, and the Crisis Centre Secretariat, which, during the consultation round, opposed the imposition of a visit ban at home to cases where there is a risk of criminal offences. The Advocate General also questioned whether such a requirement would undermine the protection of the weak party. The national lawyer further points out that there is a need for someone to leave their own home, in any case it will always be a central element in the proportionality assessment under the Criminal Procedures Act, § 170a. The Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs shares the national lawyer's concern. Therefore, the SV proposes that the criterion for banning visits at home should be that there is reason to believe, and not probability, that one of the actions mentioned in the bill will be carried out. I think it's a pity that no other party supports us in this. In addition, the SV opposes the proposal that it be possible to impose a limited visit ban. I believe it is very special and rather irresponsible of the ministry to promote such a proposal without having it consulted first. In the ‘2001 legal period’, the Swedish Supreme Court’s Committee writes that ‘a visit ban with a limited exemption for visits under supervision... could in practice easily create ambiguity and thus expose the person to be protected from a pressure against which the system of a visit ban was intended to provide protection’. SV believes that in no case must the concern for association with common children outweigh the concern for the safety of the victim of violence. In such cases, it is also necessary to find arrangements to prevent the victim from meeting the other party, for example. by making public provision for the collection of the children and bringing them to the date of the visitation ban. Information from the Crisis Centre Secretariat shows that violence is often perpetrated in relation to the handover of common children. The restraining order must never be subject to any pressure to adapt to such situations. This can't be good for the kids either. Finally, SV believes that the mandatory court hearing of a restraining order should include negative decisions, as the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Association of Lawyers, the Crisis Centre Secretariat and the Competence Centre for Victim Work address. I refer to SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e870	No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposal to which she herself has referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e873	I am very pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee has joined the three proposals for amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Criminal Code promoted in Ot.prp. No 109 for 2001-2002 and, more recently, with the subsidized support of the Progress Party. The government's proposal to clarify that expressions made by means of symbols may also be affected by the paragraph of the criminal law on racism should facilitate the reduction of racist opinions by the use of symbols. Precaution can also have a positive effect on social tranquillity in society and strengthen confidence in the ability of the judicial system to respond to undesirable actions. I therefore do not agree with the Committee's minority that there is no need for clarification. I record that the minority also fears that extreme groups are given «property rights» to symbols that are part of our history and cultural heritage. I would like to stress that all the conditions of Section 135(a) must be fulfilled in order for symbol use to be affected. Therefore, the precision – like the law in force – will only affect the use of symbols that can be regarded as a racist expression. The proposal for a ban on symbols is part of the government's overall work against racism. Other measures are the Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination 2002–2006, as submitted by the Government on 1 July 2002, and the follow-up to the Holgersen Committee’s investigation NOU 2002:12 Legal protection against ethnic discrimination. This investigation has been carried out at the hearing. Among other things, the issue of banning organised racist activities and interoperability for ethnic discrimination will be re-evaluated in the further work of the investigation. The committee has also proposed other changes to Section 135(a). So today's change is a bit of a bigger effort to protect against racism. But I will nevertheless link some fundamental considerations to this which in practice go in the same direction as the representative of Storberget. I believe that when we have these legal provisions, it is because, in the utmost sense, there should be no doubt that we will react and that we will respond to external borders, but the most important fight against both Nazism and racism is conducted in the open landscape, it is conducted in the open debate, and it is led by the direct spiritual confrontation. We have good examples of it from the very first moment one began marching in the Mise, to a situation that is now established in the Inner Eastfold, where the Russians each year at several high schools make the day of crystal night a mark against racism and against Nazism, to indicate that history should not be forgotten even if new generations come. I think it is great that 400-500 Russians each year carry out such an event. I think it's worth mentioning it from Stortingen's pulpit. It's basically a tremendous encouragement to everyone else, and it's a reminder to us sitting here, and who have it in common, most of us at least, that we're older than these Russian coals, that there's someone who, over and over again, is willing to take this up. With regard to the proposal in the proposal on radical changes to the provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act on a restraining order, I am also pleased that there is broad agreement. The proposal must be seen at this point in conjunction with other measures by the Ministry of Justice aimed at combating violence against women and at improving the situation of victims of violence. These include measures such as the creation of a women's violence forum, a women's violence committee, and an investigation into the criminal status of insulted people. There are all examples of such measures. The same is also true of the proposal in Ot.prp. No 117 for 2001–2002 on the law on changes in the police and criminal law to allow for the granting of threatened persons changed personal numbers, which are coming later today, and the various proposals made by the working group which has looked at various other protective measures, which have been included and mentioned in the proposal, and a concrete proposal has been made by the committee. [[fictitious identity]] The amendment to which the majority has given its consent involves both legal restructuring of the provision and changes in reality, and will make the provision for a ban on visits a more effective instrument in the fight against domestic violence. A clear basis for banning visits at home may facilitate the removal of the attacker from the site where the attacks take place. It is unreasonable to demand that the victim have to leave. In order also to ensure the legal certainty of the offender, it is proposed that there be more stringent conditions for the prohibition of visits at home than for the normal prohibition of visits: there must be a likelihood of a criminal offence. It is made clear to the general ban that there is sufficient reason to believe that there will be an offence — which may also be an intrusion/prosecution that is not punishable. A minority in the Committee advocates a level of risk for both types of visitation ban. In my view, a ban on visits in your own home is a very radical measure, and you have to ensure that it is only used where it is strictly necessary. The same minority opposes a limited ban on visits. I believe that the law must not shut down solutions that can be good. This could be done, for example, by: be that a child should have relations with the danger even if he has subjected the child’s mother to violence. In this case, there may be a need to limit the ban on visits so that the association can be implemented. The assumption is that conditions can be imposed, for example: that there should always be a third party present at the time of association. A limited ban on visits is not intended to be carried out and is not intended to put a new pressure on the victim. The minority also proposes that mandatory judicial review should include negative decisions. I agree that some considerations speak for such a system, but have given crucial importance to preventing an increase in the workload. The parties may always require legal proceedings. Nevertheless, this is a moment that has been presented by the representative of Thorkildsen, whom I would like to take further into account in the work in this area. I would also like to stress very strongly in relation to what the representative of Thorkildsen stated that I, as the Council of State, or for that matter the government parties, am not concerned with the insight we have gained through the book we have ordered through the Action Plan against Violence, from Alternative to Violence, from the experience of the Brøset and from Molde, that we do. We have made it clear that we want to renew the action plan against violence in society – as mentioned in the State budget – by placing greater emphasis on actions that also target men. It is quite right that measures put in place at the right time and in the right way can help men who do not master their minds to cope. And I have, after this has become a public debate, also got in touch with such men, who tell about their personal experiences, and who say this actually benefits. So I can make sure that these measures of course are related, that's part of the whole. It's not a distortion of what's coming today, but it's very important as a part of the whole. The last proposal in the proposal is to increase the penalties for competition, i.e. in the event of a clash of crimes. I believe that the level of penalties, for example. in the case of repeated profitability crime, it has been too low. The proposal will signal an increase in the level of penalties for competition. The proposal must also be seen in the context of a proposal for a separate retaliatory penalty sent by the Ministry of Justice at its hearing on 10 September 2002. I record that two minorities consider that there is no need for a change in the law. In my view, it is important to send a political signal that the level of penalties for repeated crime in some areas should be raised. On the other hand, I cannot support the minority that wants to sum up penalties, the principle of cumulation, because it can lead to very unfortunate and unfair results in practice, as well as an undesirable commitment to the judiciary. Finally, I want to complete the quotes from the Ministry of Justice's proposal that the representative Storberget started with. I think it might be useful that when quotations are started, they are completed. First, I'll quote on page 40 at the bottom of the first column: ‘The Ministry considered that such a solution would give an adequate signal that the level of penalties in competition cases should be raised.’ So it has to be multiplied by two instead of one and a half. Then to the representative of Storberget's inaugural quote: ‘The Hearing Round has confirmed that questions can be raised as to whether there is a real need for legislative change;’;» It continues as follows:’but no substantial objections have been raised to it. The Ministry refers to the reasons in the consultation note for the proposal.» It can often be a useful point to take out quotes from a document, but it's always an advantage to complete the quotes. It's not like we've gone headlessly into this. The whole main point is the marking mentioned here, that you want to send a signal to raise the penalty level, but without at the same time binding on the judiciary. That's what's dominating. That's what's in the government's program, which is also called the Sem Declaration, and that's what's presented here. It is a very real matter that there is disagreement about this, and that this disagreement comes to light in the way it has done today. But it should be that once we have tabled the proposal, we acknowledge it. At the same time, it is the case with all the proposals on punishment – but it is not a topic here today – that we are concerned about the fact that once people have settled up, they will also have a chance to return to society. But we have ample opportunity to come back to that in other debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e926	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e929	When I asked for the floor, it was because of the comment from the representative of Thorkildsen who went on that, among other things. Christian People's Party – she didn't mention us by name, but said it was the other parties – was not concerned about Alternatives to Violence. I can assure the representative that, of course, the Christian People's Party is concerned about Alternatives to Violence. Based on what we know about the program of Alternatives to Violence, I think maybe we're having a hard time saying that's the best thing in the world. I think we should be something more careful with the use of words about that. But for us, it's important to support what's positive. We have just had a budget debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and it is clear that we support Alternatives to Violence. But for us, it's not that because if someone is the best in the world, we give them everything they ask for. We have an attitude to this that says that what is effective and that produces results, of course, we will be involved in and support uplifting. This was just an explanation of the possible misunderstanding that the Christian People’s Party should be opposed both by the organisation Alternative to Violence and the content of the term ‘alternative to violence’. Of course, we're not opposed to it. We want to contribute actively and positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e938	This is not about supporting anyone in the spirit. You can do that elsewhere. This is actually about granting the money that is needed. I'm terribly sorry to hear representatives and ministers say that Alternatives to Violence are great, great, we have to support it, but when it's about cash, it's nada. It won't last. If you really think that Alternatives to Violence are important and that other treatments are also important, it actually costs money. It means that you are willing to deliver. If you're not, you also have to worry about having to hear it over and over again that that money doesn't come – right? What creates political contempt is that politicians keep jumping around and saying that it and that and that is important, without delivering when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e945	In the interests of the record, the President will invite the representative to use a language which can be understood by Parliament. No more people have asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 8 is over. [[Footing, see page 194]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e962	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e969	The amendments to the collection law now proposed do not require a significant debate in Stortinget. This does not mean that changes are not important. As the rapporteur for this, I must say that it is gratifying that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has agreed on the changes that are now being proposed in the Collection Act. That is very important. We are facing an industry that – if you read the comments of the Justice Committee – has been put under observation in the opinion of the undersigned, and that needs to be followed closely in the future, because we are concerned about the developments we have seen in the debt collection industry. Now, when you get the subject of complaints in business, such as cooperation between the industry, set up on a voluntary basis, and get it incorporated into the law, it is a hope that this amendment of the law can actually contribute to the enhancement of much of the debt collection activity you see. This is an area that unfortunately only becomes more and more topical. There are three areas in which an overall committee in the setting considers that there is a basis for clarifying a stronger line towards debt collection activities. The first is the question of the conditions for obtaining collection permits, and that, as the Committee's recommendation states, only 'exceptional' should be concerned with the granting of collection permits if you have chosen not to join this voluntary list. It is an important signal that those who grant authorization should notice. The second point is that when some have been reported for poor collection practices and debt collection agencies are taken to carry out poor collection practices in breach of collection legislation, not only the gross infringements – here the committee has unanimously chosen to correct the Ministry’s proposal – but also the simple infringements, should result in paying the denominator’s costs, just to insure that there are actually no types of breaches of collection activities accepted. Finally — and it is also an important proposal on which the Committee has been unanimous and which corrects the Ministry’s proposal: Where there are breaches of collection legislation, it shall be reported to the Credit Authority. This means that those who submit to the denominator and accept the denominator system — which should be done in order to be allowed — are also exposed to the risk of being reported to the Credit Authority when violating the rules. I think this is a small fixation and an important barrier to preventing unfortunate debt collection practices. With the comments that are also in the position of the Judicial Committee that this industry is something we will follow closely in the future, it is to hope that this will bring about a little more arduousness in relation to operating debt collection in this country. We could need that in these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e993	In this proposition, the government proposes several good measures that help to strengthen the debtor’s position in debt collection cases and provide better protection against unsolicited debt collection. One of the main measures is the creation of a debt collection complaint, the purpose of which is to provide the debtor with a simple and inexpensive way of resolving debt collection disputes. There are now a number of mentions and selections dealing with complaints in consumer matters, including: Insurance damage subject, Banking complaint subject and Consumer Dispute Committee. For most consumers it will be a very costly affair to bring a case before the courts, and in the fight against large companies that have unlimited resources to run a case up the system, it is often an exhausting and hopeless fight for a consumer. The Government proposes the creation of the appeal subject by private initiative. The right considers it important that such a name be established by agreement between the professional organisations, as this could increase the impact of the name both on the consumer side and in the industry. At the same time, there is not always public oversight and mentions have the effect you might want. As far as I have understood, the government's initiative has already led to the Consumer Council and the collection industry's organisation joining forces to prepare for the creation of such a subject. However, it is a good solution to grant such a well-known public approval, which increases legitimacy and puts more instruments at the disposal, among other things. through legal provisions. A joint committee is behind this proposal, which of course is very pleased with. It is a fact that there is currently little public supervision of compliance with the requirement of a good debt collection policy in Section 8 of the Debt Collection Act. The creation of a complaint subject will be able to address this to a large extent. The government originally proposed that the term could, in its own judgement, report breaches of the legal requirements of the credit supervision. However, a unanimous committee considers that strong consideration is given to reporting all breaches of the credit supervision and thereby strengthening public supervision of the industry. When it is also proposed that debt collection companies that have committed a breach of good debt collection policy may be required to pay the costs of the debt collection complaint, I think we have come a long way to secure the penalty system that has been missing in this sector. Hopefully, we're going towards a system that better cares for consumers' interests, while the serious operators in the industry can continue their business unrelentingly, while those who have not been equally serious meet a tougher time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1015	I'm sorry about the use of words instead. ‘Nada’ means ‘nothing’ in Spanish. SV believes that there are many good proposals in this proposal from the Government, and the Committee has come up with several more proposals that further strengthen the new debt collection law. However, there is one proposal that is missing: a proposal that financial institutions should inform about the debt regime law in the event of defaults. The Ministry stresses that it would be laborious for financial institutions to issue information on the Debt Schemes Act. Information on the main content of the Debt Scheme Act and a reference to places where individual debtors can obtain detailed guidance and information on the scheme can hardly be particularly burdensome. [[Representative clay]] Sorry – now the tongue is totally stuck. SV believes it is more important to inform the population about the Debt Schemes Act than that such information may be consistent with some of those who do not need a debt regime. In addition, early information on the Debt Schemes Act for those with payment problems would be more likely to result in voluntary schemes, which in turn could also be a better solution for creditors and the public than the compulsory scheme. In the case of SV, it is important that the hearing bodies with the most experience of victims of debt are in favour of providing financial institutions with an obligation to provide information on the debt regime law. This applies, inter alia, to: The Consumer Council and the Debt Victim Alliance. In addition, Juss-Bus, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and regional support for the treatment of debt regimes consider this to be sensible, whereas the Consumer Ombudsman wants a general obligation to provide information, i.e.: that it shall not apply solely in transfer cases. Finally, I would like to quote the Consumer Council, which in its opinion writes the following: «The Consumer Council notes that more and more suppliers of goods and services grant credit to customers and many market credit very offensively. This undoubtedly leads many to a debt that they are unable to serve. This is a development The Consumer Council looks at with concern. In most cases, traders will have tried to collect the debt via debt collection before they move to selling the claim. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the majority of defaulted claims transferred by traders are largely due to the inability to pay the debtor. An obligation to provide information on the access to the application for a debt regime is therefore natural. The Consumer Council is aware that it will be more difficult for traders than financial institutions subject to Section 45 of the Financial Contracts Act to introduce procedures to provide information about the Debt Scheme Institution. However, the Consumer Council considers that the need for information on access to the debt regime, as well as the extensive and in part ongoing marketing of some traders, must be crucial to the debtor’s needs for access to the debt regime.» I refer to the proposal that we have put forward in the vote. I also take note that sometimes you should not take the word at all!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1035	No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up what she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1038	I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal to provide legal rules on a debt collection complaint. The government lowered collection rates earlier this year. The proposal for a collection complaint represents an additional measure to strengthen the position of debtors. I consider it very important that a complaint subject be established for debt collection. This is an area in which there is a great need for a simple and inexpensive dispute resolution system, not least because many of those who are subject to debt collection are people who are poor in resources who are unable to bear the costs in ordinary legal proceedings. A debt collection complaint will give the debtors an opportunity to have their cases assessed without risk of liability for costs. Disputes relating to the collection agency law have been little tried before the courts. The lack of case law still leaves a number of questions unsolved. The establishment of a collection complaint subject may contribute to clarifying and clarifying the provisions of the collection law. This, in turn, may lead to fewer collection disputes over time. A specific argument for establishing a debt collection complaint is that it can contribute to the effective enforcement of the requirement of good debt collection. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal that credit supervision should be able to impose an admission requirement as a condition for collection authorisation. In this way, it can be ensured that all debt collection agencies are included, which is necessary for the complainant to be able to fully fulfil his intended function. The creation of an inca zone subject shall take place through private initiative. The Consumer Council and the Association of Norwegian Collection Agencies have already agreed on an agreement on such a subject. I would like to take this opportunity to express great satisfaction with the parties' work to establish the name. In the proposal, the Government has proposed two measures to strengthen the means of penalties in the event of a breach of the collection law: one is that a collecting society should be required to cover the costs of the name in the event of a serious breach of the requirement of good collection practices. The second is to put in place a system for transmitting the denominator’s opinions to the Credit Authority. With regard to the proposal on liability for costs of action, the Committee has proposed that such liability be assumed even if there are no serious breaches of the requirement of good debt collection. I hope that the amendment proposed by the Committee will be in the interests of the debtors. If the normal arrangements are to require the collecting societies which receive a negative opinion to cover the costs of the case, there may be a risk that many more cases will be brought before the courts. In that case, it would lead to increased costs for the parties, contrary to the intention of a removal order. But, as I said, I hope what is proposed will be in the interests of the debtors. The introduction of a system of reporting opinions to the credit supervision will provide credit supervision with a much better basis for its supervisory activities than today. The findings of the collection complaint will reveal cases where the provisions of the collection law have been infringed. Through reporting, the credit supervision will be aware of these cases and will be able to assess on that basis whether there is a need to impose penalties on the undertaking concerned. In this way, the reporting mechanism may help to strengthen the effectiveness of today’s sanctions including: withdrawal of debt collection authorisation. The Ministry of Justice has also assessed in the proposal other possible measures to improve the position of debtors, but has concluded that they will not be useful. It concerns both the proposal to impose a requirement of consent on the borrower to transfer receivables between financial institutions and the proposal to impose an obligation on financial institutions to inform about the Debt Code. A single judicial authority agrees that the consent requirements of the Financial Contracts Act should not be extended to transfers of assets between financial institutions, while only a small minority are in favour of introducing an information obligation on the Debt Scheme Act. I am pleased that on these points too, the Government has received broad agreement from the Committee. In conclusion, let me also add that previous proposals which the Stortinget has dealt with, among others. on what is going on in order to be able to carry out debt collection activities has its bloody gravity. It started at the time when the bandidos club created Bandidos Kapital & Invest AS, and quickly, when one was told that it was Bandidos who was behind, changed its name to Buskerud Kapital & Invest AS. It simply means that there is every reason to strengthen consumers in this area. And there's every reason to be on guard against those who want to move in the grey zone. I am convinced that the measures taken and developed by the Committee in connection with what has come from the Government will be important measures to strengthen consumers in this particular situation. They're entitled to that. Many of the weakest will thus have an instrument that will benefit them. They want a weapon where they have often been weaponsless in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1059	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 196]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1074	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1081	The most liberating experience a person can have is being on the run in his own life. The fear and eventually the anxiety that other people persecute you must be cruel, and can only be understood by those who have such experiences. In a modern democracy, most of us can move freely without particular consideration that we are persecuted by individuals or groups of people. Systematic and 24-hour continuous with the most perverse intentions actually some people are being followed, regardless of location and time. The greatest human right – the right to have an independent life – is violated. Privacy should give us security that our life and identity are protected by society. What about those women who have separated themselves from a violent man, where the man does not let the woman leave her life, but who are unrelenting, most often threatening, violates the woman? Or what about the testimony of an important criminal case, which is the police's testimony to revealing organized crime, either by motorcycle gangs like Hells Angels or Eastern European mobs, who are being persecuted in retrospect? Will a person who has first helped society to reveal crime end up trapped in his own life? Is that the thanks society wants to give this person? In that case, with what motivations will people be willing to put their own lives, family and children at risk of such a situation? The government’s proposal to open the way to providing a vulnerable identity would be another instrument for solving serious criminal cases and an important measure in the fight against organised crime. There may be cases in which a person does not want to testify, even if it is allowed to testify anonymously. In some situations access to witness anonymously is not sufficient and notional identity may be necessary to ensure the safety of the witness. I have to say, finally, we get changes to the police law that are to give vulnerable persons a dignified level of privacy, so that they can live their lives in secure assurance that the future will be equivalent to the future of the majority of us – the sense of living in a free society. One of course for most, a true hell for the few. A person who has been persecuted may today, before this fictitious identity law, upon application, change their name. Furthermore, they may be blocked at their address in the public register. A name change combined with address bar code 6 is the most interventional measure that can be taken today to hide a persecuted person. It is not possible to change the birth number or to use fictional personal data. It goes without saying that with such a practice it will be possible for anyone who wants to do so to be able to correct him, especially when the population registers around the country practice the protection of personal data very differently. Therefore, we ask the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that personal data from the public register are made less accessible, and that this should be practiced equally across the country. In addition, the Government must both improve the procedures for blocking addresses and ensure that all public authorities are better informed of the rights of individual and implement the necessary cross-ministerial measures to facilitate the daily functioning of the public reception apparatus. Access shall be opened to a threatened person to establish a notional identity in which real information is deleted. It shall be possible to change both the date of birth, the person number, the name and other information in the public register, in different public authorities and in private undertakings. It is proposed that the right to use personal data can also be granted to others, including children, who live in the same household as the vulnerable person. Threatened women may in many cases have children with the persecutor. The problems that can then arise in relation to, for example: rights of co-ordination and contribution obligations have not been fully established, but will be addressed in the family communication at the turn of the year 2002-2003. The conditions for using fictitious personal data shall be that a person is exposed to serious threats and that other protective measures are not considered to provide the person with adequate protection. Before the legislative proposal can come into force, there are a number of practical issues that need to be clarified with other authorities. This applies not least in relation to tax, equality and social security authorities, where there may be a need for regulatory and routine changes. It is correct to set strict conditions for granting an identity change. This is a comprehensive process leading to a number of practical problems. It is very important that the vulnerable person is informed about and motivated by all the changes in the life situation that the change of identity brings. An identity change should be reserved for the most serious threats where there is a risk of a serious crime against life, health or freedom. There must be no requirement that a serious crime has already been committed, but this will be a component of the overall assessment of the situation. Due to the nature of this measure, the vulnerable person should first have tried less invasive means of protection before the identity change is relevant. The decision-making authority on fictitious identity issues should be with the Police Directorate. It is a fundamental guarantee of legal certainty that there is an opportunity to appeal the decision. The Ministry of Justice shall be the Board of Appeal for decisions in such cases. People who have been granted the use of fictional identity have been through a great upheaval and have broken with their previous lives. In order to provide them with the assistance they need, it is important to propose a duty of assistance to the Police Directorate in relation to any problems that may arise. The rules on fictitious identity are now incorporated into the police law rather than a special law on this. The law is large and unwieldy, and several specific laws only help to make the rules less accessible to users. The practical problems of an identity change can vary greatly. It would therefore be appropriate not to regulate everything in detail by law or regulation. Norway has long traditions to fight the cause of humanism. This is good humanism in which individual human dignity and privacy are strengthened by new rules to achieve new identity and protection of personal information in public registers that will affect many vulnerable persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1119	A unanimous committee is behind the bill to open access to violent and threatened persons to establish a fictional identity. Since there is no political disagreement, and since the rapporteur has also presented this matter in a very good way, I just want to add a few brief comments to the proposal. In particular, it has focused on women who have broken out of violent cohabitation and their need for protection in this context. It is true that this is a particularly vulnerable group. But this law is far more fanciful, as the rapporteur also mentioned. Changes to the laws will provide better protection for vulnerable persons, including: a notional identity may be an important instrument in the investigation of organised and very serious crime with regard to witnesses. Unfortunately, in the case of women exposed to violence and threats, it is a reality that current systems of protection are not sufficient. Violent alarms, today's residence ban and address barrier code 6 have proved not to be sufficient to keep violent people away. With regard to code 6, it has proved problematic to prevent public agencies, in particular the public register, from making mistakes and providing personal data on women living on code 6. In any case, the address barrier on code 6 will be the only real option for women who live with children and who have children with the rapist. Effective identity will be difficult to implement for this group without interfering with the rights of the persecutor, i.e. the father, under the Children's Act. Therefore, an amendment to the Children’s Act is necessary in order for this group to also have an opportunity to make use of notional identity. It is therefore important to improve the address barrier system code 6. The Committee therefore supports proposals for the Minister of Justice to return to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain assessing the implementation of cross-ministerial measures to provide the public with the necessary information on the code 6 issue, to provide assistance to persons living in codes 6 and 7 and to implement measures that make it more difficult to obtain public access to the public register. These proposals can contribute to significant improvements in address barrier code 6 and also make this a good alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1132	This is initially a matter which unfortunately is necessary. It is a point when the representative Thorkildsen from SV says in his comments that there is ‘in many ways a failure statement’ when we now have to let the victim change his identity, while the perpetrator can continue as if nothing has happened. The progress party would prefer that we had a solution with a possible restraining order or, if necessary, withholding the perpetrator. But when the situation is as it is, it's important that we give the victim the opportunity to get as normal a day of work as possible. It is then to create security of vital importance. We have to do what is in our power to prevent those who are threatening from tracking and destroying the quality of life and even the health of those who need security in such serious cases. I am pleased that a unanimous committee agrees with the proposed measures, while asking the Government to consider some extra matters. In particular, it is important to limit the personality that is given access to the People's Register, and we are asking for a research project in which we receive qualitative information on how things work and, if necessary, to change. Anyway, it's important to keep in mind that there are some children who involuntarily are also drawn into this context. Their situation is, of course, difficult and needs to be given particular attention in future work. Finally, I would also like to point out that the area where this can really be of importance is the protection of witnesses. In serious cases involving international organised crime, threats and threats to potential witnesses are well known. In that case, fictional identity could give people the opportunity to testify, so that serious crime is both exposed and convicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1143	I am very pleased that the Committee on Justice, with this attitude, takes seriously the extreme situation of those at risk much more than any committee or government has done for a very long time. The government is due to propose something that I consider a necessary evil, namely access for vulnerable people to apply for a new, fictitious identity, but at the same time SV believes that the government did not do a good enough job when it presented this proposition, because it clearly decided to jump over the issues raised by the working group on the code 6 problem. However, the Committee has grouped amendments to this effect by putting in place concrete proposals for measures that will help people today who live on so-called Code 6, i.e. people deleted from all public registers, people living non-life on the road. I'm embarrassed when I think of the kids who experience daily that they don't actually exist, who have a parent who can't work, who has to move from place to place, who can't talk about the past, and who doesn't know anything about the future saying. It's simply an assault on children, nothing less. By proposing what the Justice Committee is doing today, which will be adopted, we will hopefully get better knowledge of these people, and especially the children. Hopefully, we will learn more about the problems they face in life, especially in the case of public utility, including the police. We'll know something about the background because they chose such a dramatic solution as to allow themselves to be erased from public records, and thus hopefully learn how we can prevent more people from choosing similar solutions later on, preventing those who, however, have to choose this way, encounter the problems of those who live like that today, encounter, and perhaps prevent some of these from looking to have to change their identity completely. I have regular contact with two women who live by code 6 because they were once with or married to men they want today they never met – Norwegian men, for the sake of order, since many ask about ethnicity when I tell their stories. These two women regularly remind me of the terrible situation of living on address barrier code 6. One of them has changed her name, she has moved many times, and every time the man who persecutes her has found her. She has not had contact with her two children since February, for fear that her ex-girlfriend will hurt them. She has poor health and cannot move out of the country, because she is waiting for an operation. She has experienced several times that the police have not pushed out on violent alarms, and she has experienced several times that the man has broken into her home. Once he put out her passport, so that she should be sure that he knew what her new name was. I am afraid of what will happen to her, and whether she will survive this. The other woman has two daughters. She's delivered more than 60 reviews to the police, everyone's hospitalized. You can ask yourself, is it done automatically in the facilities? In any case, it is clearly a problem that the notifications are processed by the same police chamber, regardless of where the notifications have been submitted. This woman has two daughters. According to the woman, one daughter was raped by her ex-husband when she was 14 years old. She was then recommended not to report this, because it would be used against her mother – as enough evidence that she is crazy, that she is exaggerating. Her daughters have mental problems, one has violent tendencies and goes to ATV Young. The woman does not have a job, she cannot live in one permanent place; she must move when he finds her. And he does that every time. According to this woman, it tastes public like a sieve. She fights daily, against the police, against the social security office, the social security office, the child protection authorities. Something as simple as buying a mobile phone seems to cause problems. When the daughter was going to buy a cell phone, the man broke out in the cash register: but you don't exist! I think it's awful to think about what these women and their children are going through. It is also quite tiring to deal with it, because it is so impermeable in a way. I feel powerless when they turn to me. At the same time, I'm glad that I got the opportunity to get a little acquainted with them and with the lives they're living after all. Had it not been for them, the Justice Committee would not today adopt the proposals that stand in the position, and which I hope with all my heart that the Government will follow up, so that we can give all these people life worth living – give them life, short and good. I want the Minister of Justice to be happy, and I'm going to be very careful about how it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1156	There is every reason to be concerned about developments that show increased use of gross violence and serious threats. And it is this unrest that underlies the Government's proposals for changes to the police and criminal law. We want to give security to those who are being threatened. And although it may be perfectly obvious, I would nevertheless stress that the first bids to create security are to prevent the perpetrator from being able to persecute and threaten his victims. The Government and the Christian People's Party are concerned about this side of security. We do not put the search light on the actions of the vulnerable person in order to avoid doing anything in relation to the perpetrator, but that is not the subject of the matter we are dealing with. It must be a human right to have the possibility of a daily life without fear of life or health because of the behaviour of one or more other persons. In order to ensure the security of the persecuted by address changes, categories 7 and 6 address barriers have been introduced. Code 7 gives the restriction the characteristic ‘confidential’, while code 6 means ‘strictly confidential’. Therefore, the information must not be provided to the unauthorised person or leak out so that the perpetrator can be informed of the address barrier from which he should be prevented. We recognise, however, that this does not work properly. And the representative from SV, who just had the word, described by examples that this does not work well. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's assessment that it will be possible to use a notional identity rather than to change the birth number so that the old one ceases to exist. This situation may well arise from the fact that the person seeking protection no longer poses a danger. Then it might be desirable to take back the original identity. Changing your identity is a thorough and consistent choice. The Christian People's Party, as the Committee on Civil Liberties, will therefore reserve this for the most serious threats. There must be a danger of a serious crime against life, health or freedom. And before you go to this identity change, you should have tried other and less invasive instruments. Finally, let me make it clear that public assistance is essential in order to deal with the situation, both for those who will be granted change of identity, and for those who have address barrier codes 7 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1169	In February 2000, the Government presented the ‘Violence against Women’ action plan, which includes: it is proposed to clarify the issue of increased personal data protection for persons exposed to serious violence and threats. As a follow-up to the Action Plan and Ot.prp. No 40 for 1999-2000 on measures to protect the actors in criminal matters against threats and reprisals, the Ministry of Justice in the autumn of 2000 — and then we had a different government, the Stoltenberg government, while first Bondevik I — set up a working group to investigate any changes to the rules on the protection of personal data in order to strengthen the protection of vulnerable persons. The group proposed that access be established for persons in very special and vulnerable situations to be assigned a new person number – a fictional identity. The Ministry proposes changes to the police law in theproposition which can help to improve the protection of vulnerable persons. It is a paradox, however, that it is the threatened one who must thus bear the burden of having to endure major interventions in his daily life and his actual freedom of movement, and not the person or persons who actually cause the unsustainable situation. The proposal envisages, in exceptional cases, the opening of access to a threatened person to establish a notional identity, i.e.: that a new birth number may be assigned to him. At the same time, name changes may be granted and, otherwise, changes may be made to the other information recorded in the public register as deemed necessary. It will not be possible through the public register to link the new personal data to their real identity. It is proposed that the right to use fingered personal data may also be granted to others living in the same household as the vulnerable person. This means, in principle, that children can also use fingertips of personal data, which would normally be necessary if the children were to live with the vulnerable person. A wide range of disadvantages and practical problems are linked to an identity exchange. The Ministry therefore proposes that the conditions for using fictitious personal data should be that a person be exposed to serious threats and that other protective measures should not be considered as providing the person with adequate protection. However, it is particularly important that such a wide-ranging measure as this should be taken in agreement with the vulnerable and so that the disadvantages can be reduced. Furthermore, such measures should be used together with measures restricting the freedom of action of the perpetrator of violence and/or presenting threats, such as: Visiting bans, and also in the context of what has been mentioned by many people earlier today, provide proper treatment in the right way to the person who is unable to master his aggressiveness and his or her mind. The proposal provides for the Police Directorate to decide whether to allow a person to use personal data. The Directorate of Police shall be given a number of procedural tasks and powers and shall also assist the person who has acquired a new identity. The right to assistance from the Police Directorate must be real, that is. easily accessible, adequate and sufficient. The Police Directorate shall also assist public authorities or private legal entities which have a legitimate need to come into contact with them. Before the legislative proposal can come into force, there are several practical issues that need to be clarified with other authorities. This applies not least in relation to tax, equality and social security authorities, where there may be a need for regulatory and routine changes. When assigning a notional identity, care must be taken to ensure that enforcement of current and, where appropriate, future legal claims against him can be carried out despite the exchange of identities. It is also important that he holds his social security rights and that double payments are avoided. Specific issues arise when assigning a notional identity to persons who have children with the persecutor. Issues concerning the implementation of, inter alia: rights of co-ordination and the obligation to contribute must be clarified. The same issues apply if the vulnerable person has care for children she has with other than the persecutor, since the father of these children will be entitled to information and association with their children. This could pose a threat to the security of the fictional identity. I have noticed that the Committee wants the Government to come back with consideration of proposals from the working group, as I mentioned in the introduction. The working group shall have, inter alia: proposed that fewer persons than at present have access to information under code 6 and that the decision-making authority on address barriers be transferred from the registry authority to the police in cases where appropriate. It also proposed extending address barriers, which can be decided today for up to one year, to a period of up to three years when the decision is taken by the police. As indicated by the proposition, this is a matter on which further work is being done. I very much welcome the work of the group and, consequently, also the proposals made by the committee, which cover the various aspects of the group's work and which have been referred to earlier in the debate. I have also noticed that the Committee wants the Government to consider setting up a sample, possibly launching a research project for, among others. to examine common features between persons subject to address barrier code 6, which has been the trigger for choosing such a solution and how it works in practice. In addition, let me conclude by adding that people at risk may be, as many have pointed out, people who are exposed to brutal and organized crime. I think it is a cross of thought that we do not have a broader debate in our country on this side of the crime scene too. We have rightly paid attention today to women who are subjected to violence, and this has also rightly been the main theme of this debate. But the organized crime that is invisible to most, which hardly exists as a topic in the debate on justice, challenges a lot of us, because it represents social brutality and cynicism. We know that those who dare say from can be in danger of life, or at least be harmed in such a way that they are brought to silence. We've seen too many cases where people suddenly suddenly forget or change explanation where very serious crime has been involved. Therefore, the proposal for a fictitious identity, as well as other practical measures that have been taken, should be seen as a protection of witnesses in such contexts. The proposals on identity should be considered in the context of witness protection programmes commissioned by the Directorate of Police to be implemented by the Ministry of Justice. It should also be seen in the context of Nordic cooperation initiated in order to allow witnesses to be relocated between Nordic countries if necessary. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a witness protection programme has also been launched in a broader context in Europe. But it goes without saying that if witnesses are to be moved geographically, they have to be moved in a context where it's social and culturally natural, and where you don't get out in an unusual way. That's why I put a lot of emphasis on these witness protection programs. I would like to say at the end of this debate that, in the context of the perspectives we have raised in the debate on the fight against violence, the fight against violence in society, the fight to protect the witnesses in the fight against organised crime, we are also approaching the theme of modern slave trade, or for some reason called 'trafficking'. This modern slave trade also requires that we are open under certain conditions to give protection to those who dare to say so, in order to expose the cynical backers. For these backers have gone free for so long that it is time that we set the spotlight on them. For this reason, it is no coincidence that the budget for next year, the budget that was discussed last Thursday, states that police units engaged in organised crime, in addition to the fight against drug crime, in the fight against serious smuggling of alcohol and against money laundering, must also be engaged in the modern slave trade, the slave trade that takes place with women and children. The issue that has been the most serious in the law, which the Committee has rightly widened in terms of the workgroup's proposal, its notional identity, could therefore also be an important instrument. It is an instrument that will bring Norway into a fight against organized crime and the social chaos that exists, which we must take most seriously, so that people who dare say from, who dare bear witness responsibility, have a chance. We, who represent the judicial authorities, whether we sit in my position, represent the Justice Committee in the Stortinget or represent parts of the general public, must know that without witnesses we have no cause. With tame people, the attackers can continue. With lazy people, the criminals can continue. With lazy people, the organized criminals can continue. I would like to say it this way: in the fight against these criminals, you have to use harpoon – to borrow an expression from the representative Bastesen. You don't have to use a jet bag, you have to use a harpoon. Fictitious identity is an opportunity for those who are to help to make the harpoon a success, to have a chance of contributing to the use of the harpoon against this crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1208	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 198]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1217	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1274	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1284	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1395	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1408	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1422	President, I could not vote, I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1429	Thus, the title of the law and the law as a whole were endorsed by 42 against 32 votes. The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1438	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party reads as follows: ‘1. The Government is asking the Government to carry out an impact assessment of a Coastal Fleet Structural Fund in relation to the geographical distribution effect and consistency of the landing pattern.2. The Government is asking the Government to examine as soon as possible the possibility of an extended quota system for the coastal fleet.’.» The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Storting an investigation into the introduction of negotiable fishing quotas in connection with the notified structural notification of the fishing fleet.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1502	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1515	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left will also oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1529	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1567	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1577	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1636	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1646	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1686	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1696	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1703	During the debate Knut Storberget, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1805	Point (a) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In the Criminal Procedures Act of 22 May 1981 No. 25 shall be amended as follows: point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 446 shall be replaced by the following: The President has understood that the Central Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1927	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law on Legal Aid on 13 June 1980, paragraph 35 shall be amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 13 shall be replaced by the following:In cases of compensation following criminal proceedings under Chapter 31 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the claimant shall have the right to free counsel without need to be tried.’ Here too, the Central Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1970	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1980	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e1987	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2036	Before we proceed, the President will make a correction to the vote. In the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 39, the letter g has been deleted. Furthermore, the correction made was cancelled:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2072	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The penal code shall be amended as follows:Article 62, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:If any person in the same or different acts has committed several crimes or offences, a separate penalty shall be imposed for each offence or offence which is committed by reason. The Common Penalty of Freedom is set at prison where any of the criminal offences would have resulted in such punishment. If the sum of the various sentences results in a longer sentence than prison for 21 years, the sentence of freedom shall be limited to prison for 30 years. However, this restriction does not apply if the judgment is based on § 39 and § 39 a- 39 g.» This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2093	It is then voted over the setting of the first paragraph of Section 62. The President has understood that the Progress Party now, when their proposals have fallen, supports the vote subsidiaryly. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are moving towards the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2119	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2249	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are going to the third term. There is also a proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 222a of the Criminal Procedure Act shall be amended as follows:Where there is reason to believe that a person will commit an act as referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph, the person may be prohibited from staying in his or her own home.§ 222a, second sentence of the last paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2320	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2330	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2337	During the debate, Mr Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward the following proposal: ‘The decision asks the Government, on the basis of Section 27 of the Debt Collection Act, to draw up a regulatory provision whereby, in the event of transfers of defaulted claims, financial institutions inform the debtor of the main rules of the Debt Scheme Act and the authorities assisting in the application for debt regime.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2617	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2627	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2791	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2801	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-lower-2.ana.ud103e2834	The position of the Committee on B and C shall be to send the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
