ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e28	The representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen, Trine Skei Grande, Ivar Østberg, Aud Gaundal and Morten Lund, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Gunhild Eyeågen from 13 March until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the South Trondelag County, Ola Røtvej, is prevented from meeting under Gunhild Eyering's leave due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox Other alternate, Tore Nordseth, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.2. Tore Nordseth is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of the Gunhild eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e70	Tore Nordseth is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e75	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e80	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e85	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e93	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e97	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose active state participation in the broad national wage settlement by participating in tax reliefs to ensure a negotiated purchasing power development for all, and that the wage settlement is then carried out as a decentralised settlement. At the same time, I ask for the fastest possible way of reporting on this Document No. 8 proposals, and that the position is that it should be dealt with in accordance with Rule 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e104	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e107	On behalf of the representative André Kvakkestad and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of a nationwide police department to replace SEFO and to be a body dealing with public complaints about the operation of the police and prosecution authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e112	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e115	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to propose tax reliefs for private treatment insurance to reduce sick leave and sick pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e120	The representative Per Erik Monsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e123	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to differentiate the annual tax on motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e128	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e151	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Injerd SchouBørge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e167	I'll be allowed to ask a question to the Social Minister. A recurring theme in this room is the reduction of pensions for persons who are married or cohabiting – a reduction of 25 pst. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is beyond a robbery of the rights already acquired that you are entitled to disbursement after. We are constantly getting feedback from people beyond the quite country that feels this very unfair, because you think this is a earned right where both parties are entitled to full payment not reduced by 25 pst. Will the Minister of Social Affairs now take an initiative to review this, so that, as a retired person, you will have the rights you have to earn throughout your life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e176	Social security provides higher basic pensions for lone parents than for spouses and cohabitants. Husbands and cohabitants receive a basic pension of 75 pst. of the basic amount of the public interest, while the lone parent receives a basic pension equal to the basic amount. The background is that living alone is relatively more expensive than living together. This scheme continued from the 1957 past age bracket and has been part of the population's fear since it was introduced in 1967. In a possible future and more individual-based pension scheme, this may be different, and we will look into it when the Pension Commission's suspension is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e183	Now, once again in this room, we are witnessing that every time we take up something that has to do with pensions in Norway, we are referring to the Pension Commission. There is evidence that the Government is not actually interested in taking inwards that changes should be made along the way, even if the Pension Commission is working. The problem that I am addressing now is whether this vested right in popular security is going to be paid out, or whether the state is going to take part of it, given the large economies of scale you are supposed to have by living two or more together, which the Minister of Finance actually refers to in a letter to me. Then my question is: Will the Council of State, no matter what is raised in this Chamber in the future in the case of pensions, just refer to the Pension Commission and take no initiative in the field of pension policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e192	I agree that the question was addressed in relation to what went on to shortening the spouse and equal to the basic pension. The basic pension is not a vested right in the normal sense, but is granted to all, based on living time. This relationship is quite natural for the Pension Commission to review. It is also natural that we get the overall review in 2003, as announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e199	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e202	When the Pension Commission was set up, the main intention was to look at and fund the entire pension system, not to introduce a number of other issues related to current payments. As the representative, Nesvik, we now see a tendency to refer all issues related to pension payments to the Pension Commission, simply because it may seem more comfortable for the Government not to decide on this. What this is about is to clarify what is the Government's position on the repeated theft of pensions that we now see in Norway. I'm asking, what does the Social Minister think about pension payments? Is it going to be different whether you're married or alone? Should it be true that the state is taking in 25 pst. from each person to reduce the pension just because you're married? I think the Social Minister can give an answer to that, regardless of the Pension Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e209	The President will be allowed to note that under Norwegian law ‘theft’ is punishable and that notification should be made elsewhere than in the main hall, if it is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e213	I deal with the original question and do not draw all the other assessments that the representative points out. I am concerned that we should have a pension system that people trust, which is simple and predictable, and which provides security for future payments. It has always been a prerequisite for vesting in popular peace. I also see that it has been mentioned as a pensioner. Basic pension is not an acquired right in the usual sense, but is provided to all, based on living time. It is natural that this relationship is mentioned in the work of the Pension Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e220	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e223	I want to ask the Minister for the Environment a question. Coastal and coastal zones are very attractive to the public’s travel and outdoor activities. There has been a significant construction activity in the coastal zone over the last 20 years, despite the fact that there is a general ban on construction in the 100-metre zone. It's been completely since 1965. The National Audit Office's report shows that from 1982 to 1999, there were over 8 000 new buildings in our coastal municipalities, which means that about 75 pst. of all applications for exemption from the construction ban are granted. In other words, we have a dispensation practice that, in my opinion, is in favour of eroding the whole law. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need to change the law, so that the free movement becomes real. There has been a lack of clarity about what the Government and Government parties think about this matter, and I feel a need to ask: Can the Council of State clarify what is the Government and Government parties' view of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e234	I fully agree with the representative, Brustad, that ensuring the rights of all persons and securing the beach zone is important. That is why I also sent out a letter last Friday, 8 March, pointing out to the county officials and municipalities that for 35 years there has been a ban initially on building in the 100-metre belt. I then asked, in the light of the information I received from the Riksrevision, that this ban be complied with. The National Audit Office has pointed out that 7,800 permits have been granted since 1982 for construction in the coastal zone. There are no exemptions, there is also a lot about planning changes. This means that, in the context of planning changes, the State has, in all those years, also had the opportunity to raise objections through state officials and other governmental bodies. You haven't. You also have to be aware that the 7,800 changes that have occurred within the beach zone are not just newly built. There may be a change of window panes, it may be built-in, it may be garages and the like. In fact, I think there's every reason to review this law and look at how it's practiced. That is why I have also sent this letter to the statesmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e243	It's nice that a letter is sent to the statesmen. But isn't the matter here that it's actually like 75 pst. of all dispensations are granted, and there is talk of many properties being built, many bridges and many fences making the free movement no longer real? Isn't it just one answer to that question if you actually mean something about it, that's to change the law? I have now heard that the Minister for the Environment has traveled around and made many fine speeches about how important it is to ensure the rights of the public, to ensure the free movement and to provide the environment, and that is good. Now I think it is time for the Minister for the Environment and his party traps to go from talking to practice. The time of the fine parties is over, now it's about action. That's what we're now being measured for. That is why the concrete question remains: will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the law, so that the free movement becomes real, and not just to tell the municipalities that they should deal with legislation where derogations have also been granted? It's actually that dispensations erode the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e250	First, I have to say that I have a very good conscience in relation to what we have done in the open air area. For the first time in ten years we created a national park before Christmas: Forollhogna. We have protected a large area around a pearl called the Yttersø farm, which has been on the Environment Minister's table for many years. With regard to the beach zone and what is attached to the law on outdoors, I do not think the main problem is the lack of legal requirements in relation to the ban on construction, but that is the practice of this. That is why I have sent out a letter that tightens up the municipalities and the county officials who are going to deal with this. As I also said in my first answer, it is not the law that is a problem when over many years, since 1982, you have allowed 7,800 buildings, where the state could also exercise its right of objection. The state has not used its right of objection because it has then looked at each case and not at the whole of it. I think it is now time to critically assess the construction planned in the 100-metre zone. At the same time, however, you must use good sense in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e257	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e260	The Minister for the Environment shall be in favour of his being clear in many environmental matters towards Stortinget and in many meetings, not least when we are in contact with outdoor organisations and environmental movements. It is therefore a bit alarming when, on 28 January of this year, the Minister for the Environment says that a letter should be sent in which a sharper planning and dispensation practices in the coastal zone, also in relation to strengthening the building ban in the 100-metre belt, while one in a press release in relation to the management of the beach zone, says that one reminds the municipalities of the rules that are in force, rather than one that is so official in the past. I'm wondering what happened here. Is it the great majority that governs the Minister for the Environment's policy in this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e267	First of all, I would like to say to the representative of Langeland that it is clear that the bulk of the population is in charge of the Minister for the Environment, otherwise I would not have stood here! I think I have to deal with that also in the continuation. I guess Langeland doesn't give me the advice that I won't do it, then he won't do me well. In relation to the letter that was sent out, it is a reminder to the county officials and municipalities that for 35 years we have had a ban on it being built in the 100-metre belt. This is a good rule, but it must also be exercised with reason and wisdom. If you call it a reminder or a intensification, it doesn't matter. I have inculcated in the counties and municipalities that this 100-metre belt should not initially be built. That is why I have also said that, in matters that are controversial, the State should also make greater use of its ability to raise objections. For many years under changing governments, this right of objection has not been sufficiently exercised by the State. That's what I've been saying. Then it is not the law that is the problem, but the practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e274	The President appreciates the fact that government councils know their place in relation to the Storting. Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e279	To me, it still seems that the Minister for the Environment has a vague attitude on this issue. The main point is that today’s law is not good enough. There have been calls for many years, and we still see a reduction of the beach zone, over 60 pst. in Akershus, e.g. We announced a tightening of the law. The Bondevik government kept the open-air message where we had this warning and were in favour of stricter rules. But now it's unclear what the government thinks, and not least what the government parties mean. Is it so that the government parties agree with the Government that it was behind the open-air message that the Workers' Party presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e287	I can't see at all that there's any ambiguity in relation to what I'm saying. I say that the law is not the main problem, but the practice that has been followed by many governments. Many workers' party governments have also failed to use the right of objection that state officials and state agencies have in relation to the construction of the 100-meter belt. Therefore, a change in the law is not the right step to take in the first instance, but the exercise of the powers conferred on the State by exercising the right of objection in planning matters. Another question is whether the exemption of municipalities should have been reduced as an additional option. This has been taken up by the Planlov Committee in its first sub-position, and I have announced a proposition during the spring that will also go through these conditions. So no ambiguity is created. On the contrary, I have made it clearer through a letter to the county councillors and municipalities that underlines that in the 100-metre belt there is not initially to be a new settlement. It is an important part of the right of all to travel along the beach, so that you can also enjoy the pleasure of outdoor life in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e294	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e297	I fully agree with Sylvia Brustad that there is a need for legislative change, but in the opposite direction of what the Workers' Party wants – namely the removal of this ban on building in the 100-metre belt, so that we could use the whole country. It surprises me that a Right-State Council has such an easy relationship with ownership, too, when you want to be happy and satisfied to forbid people to build on their property without actually being given any kind of compensation. I could imagine asking if Børge Brende has ever been on a plane along the coast of this country, whether it's headed down to the South or off to Stavanger or up the West Coast, because there's something we have enough of in this country, there's room. I think very many of the public actually want a cabin at a reasonable price. If we had lifted the building ban, most people could get what they want, maybe a small cabin. How is it with regard to the ownership of this government, it seems right to deprive people of their right to dispose of their own property and to deprive the municipalities of municipal autonomy in land planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e304	The size is waiting with excitement for the answer on the question of the Minister's flights.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e307	First, I want to agree with the one that the representative Hagen said, there's actually a difference between where you move in the country. Along the inner Oslofstord there is a tremendous pressure on the beach zone; many actually have difficulty accessing it. That is why we have also created our own project called Archipelago Park, so that we can be sure that even those who do not have cabins or houses along the fjord, have access to the beach, go out with the family to swim and so on. I would assume that the representative Hagen too seems to be important. When it comes to the ban on building in the 100 meter belt, there is a law that has existed for 35 years, so it doesn't come as a surprise. Of course, I am quite clear on the principle that if you get a restriction relating to your property that qualifies for compensation under the compensation regulations that we have, which are then derived from Section 105 of the Basic Law, you must have paid compensation. However, there is an important balance between the rights of all people and taking care of the 350 000 cabins in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e314	Inger S. Enger – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e317	Of course, it's for the beach zone problem. We know that there is a general construction ban in the 100 meter belt. It's like this. In addition, I would also like to mention what Hagen said, that private property rights have to be respected. What's my concern in this context is that there are big differences. We have some press areas. As mentioned, 60 is pst. of the beach zone in Akershus built. Elsewhere in the country, they will cry out and be happy to have a cabin. What will the Council of State do to differentiate the legislation so that the guidelines and the rules of exemption can vary in practice and content according to where in the country, i.e. according to the areas of pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e324	It is already the case that the national guidelines and national policy guidelines apply to a limited area, mainly along the Oslofjorden. It has also been sent to consultation guidelines related to the South. But it's not the kind of national policy guidelines that I'm familiar with, for Rogaland and Hordaland. I agree that there is a need to distinguish between the pressures in the different regions. But at the same time it has been decided by Stortinget to have a building ban in the 100-metre zone. But as I also said, you have to use wisdom in the exercise of this. Of course, there is a difference between changing the window on a cabin, perhaps making an annex of 10 extra m2, if the option is to install a new cabin in another exposed area. So the main lines are that this ban is to be enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e329	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e332	I have a question for Environment Minister Børge Brende. Yesterday, the NRK launched a very thought-provoking programme on Norwegian predatory policy. The program showed many of the suffering sheep and reindeer are suffering from grazing. Last year, no less than 80 million were paid. kr in prey and 33000 sheep were reported to be taken from predators. In addition, 100,000 sheep died on pasture for other reasons. In Sweden, what we have in Norway has been replaced by the reverse. A basic premium is granted to reindeer and sheep owners to operate in predatory areas. That grant may be used for guessing and supervision. That way, the farmer makes money for every animal that comes down from the mountain instead of counting the cadavers, as we've done here. The Council of State has said that he wants to mitigate the conflicts in the predatory business. I think that's wise. Will he then take the initiative to change the compensation system for this season, or shall we wait another year, until another 33 000 sheep are killed and the level of conflict has increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e341	I fully agree with the representative Sørensen that the nature of the NRK yesterday was a very strong programme. It shows the strong conflicts that are there with regard to the issue of the big predators and the bup and the pure that are on the graze. Now you get different programs with different angles of incidence. Yesterday's approach was based on the fact that our compensation rules encourage more than what is initially due to the behaviour of predators. But then there are other reports that go very much on the very difficult situation that many owners of sheep and reindeer come up into when their animals are eaten or destroyed. This is actually one of the most difficult things I have. I am now trying to promote our own predatory message in 2003, get people out of the trenches and get people to talk. We are internationally obliged by the Berne Convention to have predators, but at the same time the Storting has decided that we should have an active outing industry. Having a buff that goes in the same area as possibly a wolf or a yer is not easy, so we have to get in there with remedial measures. What I mentioned in a discussion in Redaktion 21 last night, after having seen the program, was the Swedish replacement code, where you get paid by account. If you want to limit the damage, you get left with it yourself, you get bigger damage, you can get worse. This is a controversial proposal, so I don't think the time has come to draw any final conclusions from that. I also think it's a little early to implement it already in the summer. I think it has to be a much wider process, and I think it has to be an accepted industry for any such proposal first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e351	In my previous political life, this subsidy scheme was also discussed in connection with the last time the Stortingen dealt with a report on predators. There's no new system. It has worked in Sweden for many years, and it is also such that many within the industry are positive for a conversion in Swedish direction. For every year that goes with the system we now have, which encourages conflicts, it will be more difficult and more difficult to engage in the dialogue and interaction we have in the predatory business. An initiative to transform the replacement system now would have promoted dialogue, not further increased the conflict. Then I hear that State Council Burned both now and in Editorial 21 yesterday referred to that we are obliged through international law to take care of the large predators in Norway. I agree with that, of course, but I also hope that the Minister for the Environment agrees that we actually have five large predators in Norwegian nature, in themselves is a enrichment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e358	The story has said that you should have a predator report. Once the Storting has asked for it, I find it difficult to make strong changes in predatory policies before the Storing has been treated. We now engage in a very close dialogue with both environmental organisations and industry in order to reduce the level of conflict in these predatory matters. That is the responsibility of all. And it doesn't go on a Wednesday without me being dragged in here to answer why you don't shoot that wolf or that pup, while the pup says we're going to have a sustainable predator tribe. So I think it's important that we start a process where we also agree on the premises. As regards the reference to Sweden, the difference is that in Sweden there is no bofe on pasture in the same way. The agricultural industry is completely different from Norway, and therefore it is probably easier to have that kind of replacement rules in Sweden than it would be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e365	The President noted that the Minister for the Environment's aim is to bring people out of the trenches. I'm a little uncertain as to whether it will make life safer or less safe for predators, but we'll see if the minister succeeds in achieving his goal. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e370	I must again challenge the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government on the growing poverty problem in Norway – primarily for the poor themselves, but also because the Minister of Social Affairs has used many occasions both inside and outside the United Kingdom to warn of a new and better policy to combat poverty. Now six months have passed, and so far I can't see that something has happened at this time. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: can the Council of State mention a single example of new measures during this period? And if the government, as has been announced earlier, is working on measures for those who are currently struggling with poor finances, with problems in paying for food and housing and covering other bills, it will now be interesting to get a little glimpse into the work that the government might have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e377	The co-operation government put social policy on the agenda from day one by setting up its own social ministry, and we have addressed the problems of poverty. They're comprehensive, and it's also with a big and warm heart I'm working on it. The first measures were included in the 2002 budget, such as increased child supplements for low-income dependent children, increased commitment to treatment and health, and help for debilitated drug users. It's right, as the representative Kristoffersen says, we're working on an action plan against poverty, and I'm going to come back to the concrete proposals in the budget. These measures shall be targeted; they shall help people out of poverty. There should be a targeted effort, which should be largely personalised, so that we can reach those who need it the most. Measures to combat poverty must also be directed towards the reasons why the individual falls outside, and there are three main actions I intend to mention. There are measures that prevent people from becoming poor, which go on the prevention side. The second is measures that help to strengthen self-sufficiency and work, and then it is important to have help to get into the labour market. The third is measures aimed at improving welfare services, which have a primary focus. There is a need to raise poverty problems both in and out on the political agenda, and it is also good to note the commitment and the broad political will to do this. I've also been inviting you all the time. We have drawn on research environments, but we have also drawn on the voluntary organisations, which have a number of good proposals for actions that can help target the action plan. And to the representative's question whether I can mention one – or two or three – action: I have already done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e388	It strongly obligates to go so high on the track, without such a long record. But what we've seen is actually aggravating situation for many. I'll give you some examples. The cut of $30 million. kr. in Aetat and an instigated bureaucratic slogan mean that many people are now unable to pay what they are entitled to. People get a double penalty because the social offices don't seem to take inward that there are people who don't have money for normal living. I expect something to happen there. In addition, the government has cut 60 million. NOK in the funds of long-term sick people who were going back to work. This, I think, is a disrespectful way of dealing with people who have to live on a minimum of existence. I could also mention housing policy, because it was made hard cut in the Husbanken framework that makes one from past bad system even worse. What does the Council of State intend to do to correct what has been exacerbated? And then, what improvements will she propose, which it is necessary to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e397	When it comes to reintroduction, I would like to say very briefly that of course it is not intended that people who are on reintroduction should receive social assistance because of the lack of payment of reintroduction money. It was a system error. The system has been reworked, and this is fixed. Those who have been paid too little receive this after payment. The challenge is also that we have 6 000 – 7 000 homeless people in this country. And then I hope the representative also agrees that the House Bank can be aligned with those who do not actually have a house and a home, that instead of being an offer that reaches many, we can also align it with the special. These are important issues in our work in relation to an action plan that is targeted and tailored and works in relation to the individual. In addition, of course, we should take care of the good welfare arrangements that have been widely agreed in politics that we should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e404	There will be follow-up questions – Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e407	The Government of Bondevik I provided a cross-referencing message with measures. The government of Stoltenberg followed up with a separate action plan on social economic security in the long-term programme with measures for work, housing and increased financial security. The government of Stoltenberg followed up in the budget for the current year. This government has had an alarming lack of follow-up to its own words on combating poverty. In the case of housing measures, it is not that the Government has made an active effort to improve the situation on the housing market. On the contrary, the Government has weakened the general instruments, making the situation even more difficult for those with the most difficulty. The Housing Committee of the Workers Party has now proposed to increase the income limit in order to receive housing support by NOK 50000, and proposed measures to end the use of the hostel and to return to better housing for those with special needs, combined with social services. Why does the Government not come with this kind of initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e416	The government comes up with this type of action in relation to poverty reduction. It will adapt to work by helping more people return to work, out of poverty and into work. In addition, we want to focus on the fact that there are a number of people who don't have housing. I've been into it before and don't go into it any further now. In addition, it is also a social network. In our review of the action plan against poverty, we will have a wide range of issues in relation to the circumstances pointed out by the representative. I also refer to the fact that I will come back to this in the context of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e423	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e427	I want to go back to what the representative Kristoffersen so far had to say about people reintroducing. The Council of State said that there is no point in people going back to the social office. I agree with that, of course. But the problem is that people have had to. In addition, in this situation, people have received additional costs because of late processing in Aetat, costs related to reminders, collection fees, etc. As far as I'm aware, the rules for social assistance are such that it doesn't cover this kind of expenditure. The question then arises: will the Council of State quickly ensure that the social offices actually also cover these expenditures when it is the responsibility of the state that people have ended up in this situation and received these extra costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e432	I repeat, of course, it is not intended that people who are reintroducing should receive social assistance because of the lack of payment of this money. Unfortunately, there was a system error in the conversion of the legislation, so that some beneficiaries were paid too little benefit. This has been taken into account and corrected as quickly as possible, so that return payments are paid so that people get what they want when they are going to. Those who have been paid too little receive this after payment. With regard to the legislation for the calculation of reintroduction fees, the underlying changes are those adopted by the Storting. Moreover, I repeat that, as at the review of measures against poverty, welfare schemes will also be part of this. In addition, a unanimous increase has asked us to establish a joint union of social security offices, social offices and Aetats, precisely to make it easier for the user, and for it to be coordinated. We're also going back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e441	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e444	When you talk about poverty, it might also be nice to have something to assume about what you see as a poverty line, among other things. in Norway. I, the undersigned, wrote a letter to the Ministry of Finance to find out what is meant by the concept of poverty in Norway. On Monday I received the following answer from the Minister of Finance: ‘There is no officially established poverty limit in Norway. Poor is a group that, for very different reasons, can be regarded as poor. For example, some poverty problems may be linked to high costs, such as: in the case of disease.’» My question to the Minister of Social Affairs is: Will the Minister of Social Affairs now take an initiative to go through these things to see if there is a basis for setting a poverty line in Norway? Not least, we have a large group of poor people who can actually define it, the minimum pensioners in this country. Here, at least, the social minister has an opportunity in the social security system now in May to do something for this group to get them out of poverty. [[The President clubs.]] The question is: will the Minister of Social Affairs do it despite the fact that the parties to the government were the only ones who voted against a budget proposal that regulation of the basic amount should be at least in line with what we have in our professional life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e456	The President is asking for respect for speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e459	The criteria for defining poverty, as the representative Nesvik correctly says, are not a definition. It's been trying to say that you have 60 pst. of an average median income, you're poor. The representative probably realizes that this will lead to that no matter how much we earn in this country, there will always be some poor. It's much more complex than that. It's about what the representative was about, housing, work and social inclusion. Nor can one say that a minimum pensioner is equal to a minimum pensioner, precisely because someone has expenses for, for example, medicines that others don't have. However, these are important issues that we are already working on in relation to criteria and to have measures that are targeted at poverty. Nor do I expect the representative Nesvik to believe that all the minimum pensioners are automatically poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e466	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e469	In our country for Monday this week, the leader of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Reply City Haugland, says the following: ‘There may be tough priorities in the next budget. What remains is what we want to use to combat poverty both nationally and internationally.’ It is such an alarming statement that I think it is necessary to get a comment from the Minister of Social Affairs on this, especially in the light of the fact that the impression from the budget when it is in force in 2002 is exactly the same. That was 248 million. kr is left to fight against poverty after e.g. those of us who are thinking about 300,000 kroner per year. years, had received $4 billion in taxes. Is that what's going to be left over for the poor to be satisfied with this time? Is that also the right hand hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e478	When, from the day one, the Government has put poverty and the fight against poverty in Norway and abroad on the agenda – within my territory, here to the country – it is because we mean it, and the Government is united behind it. I'm also pleased that most of the parties so far in this round of questions express the same interest in this topic. And then it's not that it's just crumbs, which I hear the representative ask, then it's that this is a priority. In this area, there are families, poor families with children, who are also at the top of the agenda. So yes, we're going to work hard and hot within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e483	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e486	It might be tempting to take the supplementary question I did not get to the Minister for the Environment, first, but I interpret the President's words to that point that he still wants to keep someone in the trenches!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e492	Temptations are available to resist!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e495	So to the question that I want to address to the Social Minister. I'm starting from the County Medical Supervisors' supervisory report on health care for old-age dentures. The Minister of Social Affairs says that she will now regulate the quality regulations in the care of the elderly, including care for old age. It should have been done before, the Labour Party government did nothing about it after we dealt with Care 2000, which was presented by Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Bondevik I. Mr Bondevik II has not yet made any concrete proposals. We know, among other things: that the care factor is very low in the nursing homes. It is less than 0.7 years per year. Patient – one of the same things we had in the 1970s when the patient base was between 75 and 80 years old, today it is well over 85 years old. Will the Minister of Social Affairs do something about care factors and staffing standards so that there can be a better care situation and care situation in nursing homes? It's important for all of the terms in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e504	First of all, care for demente. There we send proposals for the regulation of the use of force against the dents on consultation in a short time. The aim is to prevent and limit the use of coercive measures in the care of dementes while ensuring that coercive measures necessary to ensure the necessary care and care and to prevent patients from being exposed to harm or harm are regulated. To minimum standards for manning: it is such that the care services shall have a crew sufficient to provide users with an offer in line with the requirements of quality of service. A minimum standard can easily become a maximum in practice and may weaken the supply of the most nurturing patients. And a minimum standard will focus on the number of service providers rather than the competence of the individual service provider and the quality of the service provided. It is the individual's care needs that should lie on the ground, not a minimum standard for the number of employees. Nor is it true that the number of people on duty is equal to the quality. It's about competence, management, organisation, organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e513	I thank you for the answer, but I disagree with the Minister for Social Affairs that a minimum standard can become a maximum limit. The standards must of course be based on coatings and care weights, I think. With regard to the standard of living, it is also important that one follows up on the economy. A majority of the social committee said in the context of care in 2000 that there was no real shortage in health and care professionals, in order to improve working conditions and to improve the remuneration of personnel in this area. Does the Minister for Social Affairs agree? The right was on this note. I also think it is important now that we have a follow-up to the older reform, so that the municipalities that plan to build places will follow it up. Will the Minister of Social Affairs come up with a case this spring that shows that all municipalities have their plans in terms of space problems? It's one of the most important things here to ensure the quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e522	The government is now working on this, and the starting point is the 1997 Stortingen goal – which is the starting point of the ageing plan – and the goals of government parties have been set out in the Sem Declaration. I can't go into this as the work is going on, but I will come back to this in the matter that the Government will present to the Storting now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e529	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e532	You may have to be locked in a bunker with soundproof walls in order not to be able to perceive the signals out in society that the state of the care of the elderly in a number of places is still too bad. The representative of Glaucoma took his question on the basis of the supervisory report, and I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs a simple and specific question: Will the Minister for Social Affairs now ensure that a number of supervisions are carried out at our older institutions which have not been notified in advance? One of the main problems is that many of the institutions are alerted in advance of supervision. Will it now be possible to ensure that more and more of these inspections are unannounced?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e539	Councillor Nesvik – forgiveness, Councillor Schou! It was a delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e542	I appreciate the fact that there are more people who can do it! To the representative: The report we have just had in relation to the supervision of nursing homes in relation to demente is just an example of the functioning of the supervisory authority, that we get things out of the care of the elderly that are in no way good, and that we also have the opportunity to do something about it. The supervision of care homes in municipalities is subject to the social services law and is therefore not similarly subject to the supervisory regime in relation to health supervision, county doctors, etc. Therefore, it is to be converted into the responsibility of the State Health Authority for the health and social services in the municipalities from 1 January 2003. To that end, with unexpected and spontaneous supervision, I have to say that I do not know how the Health Authority and the supervisory authorities are working fully, but at least I will investigate and make sure that it is both planned and not notified of supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e553	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e556	In a chronicle in Dagbladet yesterday, the Minister of Social Affairs presented his initiative to improve the quality of care for the elderly. I don't have time to go into everybody, but it's important and good tools. But in order for this quality increase to take place, you're dependent on two important things. One is that you have people doing this quality job. In the TV 2 news today, a survey was published among nursing students in the East Health Region, where it turns out that less than 10 pst. of these students want to work in the care of the elderly. The second assumption is that you have municipalities that are financially able to pay what this quality costs. My question will then be: How will the Council of State ensure a good recruitment of all kinds of nursing and care staff, and how will the Council of State enable Norwegian municipalities to pay for the quality that the Council of State and I agree that we should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e562	The question asked by the representative is a matter of concern. We have a lot in the care of the elderly that we're going to do better. But at the same time, I think it's high time that we got the images and the good things in the care of the elderly, so that we also have the opportunity to recruit in relation to the good things and the good examples. It has never worked as much as it does in the care sector today, yet many municipalities are struggling with recruitment to the services. An important reason why the demand for personnel will exceed access is that fewer and fewer young people are applying for health and social education, while the number of graduates has fallen. In parallel with the expansion of the old age plan, local authorities have also been committed to increasing staff, and we see that the figures have increased from 42 to more than 45 employees per year. 100 over 80 years. There's an increase in parallel all along, but at the same time there's also been an increase in the number of older people. So here we have a challenge and we're working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e569	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e572	I am pleased with the Council of State's commitment to securing a more dignified care for the elderly and, in particular, the search light she has now seen on the dents. It's my claim that if there had been a greater involvement with the majority in the Stortinget and with the previous government to follow up the care 2000 report, we would also have come further when it comes to knowledge, when it relates to leadership and also when it relates to the focus on co-ordination of supervision and on common regulations. Then there are now alarming messages that one third of the municipalities are cutting in the elderly care of the year to get the budget going together. Is it the Council of State's view that local authorities' finances need to be strengthened directly as a means of securing better staffing and greater recruitment and thus a more dignified care?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e579	There is a real growth of SEK 3.8 billion in 2002, 250 million. kr more than the Workers' Party submitted as a proposal. The Minister of Local Affairs is working on different solutions to cover, inter alia: relationships between municipalities and major cities in relation to a number of challenges, which, of course, are related to care for the elderly, but also to a number of other social challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e584	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e587	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Evolutions in today's society are moving towards increased motorised outdoor life in the form of snowmobile use, and this is happening without the authorities facilitating it. In the last growing-up period, the Progress Party promoted a Document No. 8-proposals suggesting that municipalities should be able to facilitate the use of snowmobiles if the municipalities so wished, and that they should be given the opportunity to drive on unbroken forest roads and on icy watercourses. This proposal, as the tradition is here in the house, was voted down by the majority of the population. However, the majority of the population agreed with the proposal and repeated twice in the last enlargement period that they wanted to implement these regulatory changes in line with the proposals of the Progress Party. What will the Council of State do as soon as possible to facilitate snowmobile ride conditions here to land, in line with the majority of the population who have asked for it in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e598	There has been a lot of talk about the rights of all people here today. In one area, there is, in fact, also a reason for critical assessment of all-man rights, and that is in relation to the question that the representative of Korsberg is now raising. Would you like to have it so that everyone can buy snowmobiles and drive where you want in Norway, both in important open-air areas and not least in our mountains? What the government has said is that we want to review critically the regulations that have been out on the hearing, to see if they keep their goal even when it comes to maintaining the peace that we want to shape our mountain home. With regard to what the Stortinget wrote in its comments, we have fulfilled that it is now a three-year test project in eight municipalities, where you have to have local snowmobile management, i.e. out-of-land motor travel. After that test project has been completed, it will be evaluated, and a broad review of the implications of this will also be made. It's kind of interesting that the last day came up with a measurement that showed that 85 pst. by the Norwegian people, in fact, do not want any dramatic conversions in relation to the snowmobile regulations. I have not tightened up the regulations that apply – they apply. If, for example: wish to have the luggage carried on a cabin, or if a person wishes to use the scooter for business purposes, it is permitted. What we are now going to look at in relation to the pilot projects in the municipalities is whether it makes sense to allow more recreational driving in our mountain world and in our open-air areas, which not least more representatives here in the hall are familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e607	I thank the Council of State for the answer. To repeat only: Document No. The 8-proposal we had, it didn't mean it was going to be free driving all over the place. This should be done in regulated forms. What was most important to us was that the municipalities themselves should be allowed to facilitate snowmobile driving in snowmobiles if the municipality itself wanted it – in other words, we wanted to strengthen local democracy. We think it is best that those who have the shoe on and know where it is printing are allowed to decide this without the Stortinge to try out municipal autonomy in any case. I have also noticed that the Right has changed its open-air policy quite radically. I have to remind the Council of State that Jan Tore Sanner had three-four questions in the previous period in which he wanted a wheelchair user to be allowed to drive up on the Galdhøpig with a belting chair. There are a number of other examples that the Right has turned in the field of outdoors policy and is now almost headed by SV policy in this area. What is the reason why the Right now stands for the policy that the Right stands for, and does not stand for what you said earlier – to put it this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e618	The picture the representative of Korsberg is now drawing is free imagination. The right has always been concerned with the outdoors. In fact, nine out of ten Nordics believe that the main preventive health work is to bet on an active outdoor life. Of course, when it comes to strengthening local democracy, we are concerned about it. But more than that, the municipalities that were hearing bodies for the regulatory changes to which it was proposed – where it would be much more freer for the individual to use the scooter as much as you wanted – were critical of this. Those municipalities, especially in the northern part of Oppland, thought that there was going to be a pressure on mountain homes, that they wouldn't be able to stand up to it, and that this also has a national dimension. But I have now said that eight municipalities will be allowed to try this out, and then we will also have to take those experiences with us. Regarding the question raised by the representative on wheelchair users who wanted to go to the top of the Galdhøpigg, and that the representative Sanner addressed this, the Ministry of the Environment has addressed this issue. It has to be seen in isolation from the questions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e627	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e630	As far as I am aware, the aim is now to introduce a total ban on snowmobiles travelling across the country, applicable from 1 July this year. This is today the only possibility that snowmobile owners south of North Troms have to drive legally without a derogation. If this is done, a few situations in which almost 40000 snowmobile owners will have to search their respective municipalities in order to be able to use their vehicle according to their own chosen trajectories. Has the Council of State come up with an opinion on how it is possible to implement this foresight in practice? And further, is the Council of State aware of what such a possible prohibition would result from absolutely unnecessary bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e638	As I said in my answer to the previous question, it is not added up to any changes in the snowmobile regulations from my side. In other words, the state of the Norwegian mountain refuge and of the Norwegian outlying areas for many decades will continue to apply. So any scare-mongering propaganda that there will be dramatic changes to summer falls on its own unreasonableness. What I've said is that it's natural to wait for the implementation of the regulations that were at the hearing before the launch of a test project in eight municipalities, where you have to look at how a local management of these issues is carried out. I think we should think about it a little bit before we let go of the snowmobile ride completely free. What it was added up to was that if one had two wood skis on the trailer, one could drive. It was such that all unbroken roads – not highways, it was about all small seatways – were very difficult to control. But we have a sensible scooter policy, and we're going to go through the results you have. Of course, one should be allowed to use scooters where the big community also believes that it makes sense and will not go at the expense of important outdoor interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e643	The President has registered that we started with the oral question procedure only at 1 p.m. 10.10 today. The Rules of Procedure then allow another main question to be asked in the oral question procedure, and it is Gunn Olsen who is on his way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e646	I have a question for the Social Minister. We have no idea that this is what the Minister of Social Affairs is now claiming, that all the changes in procedures and rules for people who go on reintroduction are corrected. It still makes people very frustrated and despaired. That people get confused is very understandable when they meet with a bureaucracy that uses a non-functional procedure. It's very serious, and many are actually dependent on social assistance because they're waiting for money they're entitled to. As far as I understand, the social offices also handle this differently. Will the Minister of Social Affairs now give a clear signal to the social offices about how this is to be resolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e653	I think I've answered this that goes on reintroduction, earlier. As far as I'm aware, the Reich Agency has taken hold of this and got it fixed quickly, so that the return money is paid, and people get what they need when they're going to. This is the starting point of the system of closure and also the follow-up to the regulatory framework which the Stortinget has also laid down. Those who have been paid too little have received this amount. People who are reintroducing are not supposed to receive social assistance because of a lack of payment, and I am not aware that there is different handling of this. What I'm familiar with is that, on the contrary, it's sorted out, so that you get paid back. The situation that arose as a result of this was not good, and went well on a system error when converting the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e658	It was as well-known as the Bondevik government that cut off the allocation of the labour market seat and that in that way was really the cause of a significant deterioration in the situation. If that's the case, as the Minister of Social Affairs is now saying, that everyone's wrong is fixed, and everyone gets the money they're demanding now, I'm of course very happy with it. I hope it is so that the Council of State now confirms that there is contact between the Aetate and the social action in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e663	I understand it so that I have basically answered this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e668	So will the President. The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e675	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered before question 26, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative of Raymond Robertsen to the Minister of Health, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 11, from the representative of Ottar Kaldhol to the Minister for Health, will be addressed by the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen. Question 13, from the representative Sigrun Eng to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Fisheries, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 6. Question 19, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Employment and Administrative Affairs, will be moved and answered before question 2. Question 20, from the representative Karin Galaaen to the Minister of Labour and Administration, has been transferred to the Minister of Health who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 12. The question will be raised by the representative of Morten Lund. Question 21, from the representative Eirin Fallet to the Minister for Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Health who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 12. Question 22, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrøm to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 1. Question 23, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 24, from the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has a history of disease. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 25, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, this question is moved and answered before question 2. Question 26, from the Per Sandberg representative to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e712	I will be asked the following questions to the Prime Minister: ‘Through the media, the Stortinget has become aware that the Prime Minister wants to grant 4.5 million. kr to a type of value committee at school. The Prime Minister explains as a reason for his value project that we are witnessing a confusion in Norwegian society as to morality and propriety. Can the Prime Minister explain why the Christian Educational Association should be responsible, and what kind of values the value project should focus on?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e721	The government will help to strengthen the dissemination of value in schools. It's fixed in the Sem statement. The values on which the school is based are set out in the Training Act § 1-2 ‘Objective of the training’. The values shall permeate all subjects and activities. The majority of primary school subjects have subjects on different value issues. This is the basis for work on values at school. The work of complying with these values takes place in education, in schoolyards and in the school leisure system. Each school must have a common strategy to create a good learning environment where neither bullying, violence, racism nor other problem behaviour is accepted. Based on the Sem Declaration, the Learning Centre has been given the task of developing the ‘Values in School Life’ project to put special emphasis on the dissemination and awareness of values in schools and in educational establishments. Schools shall themselves formulate value objectives to characterise everyday school life and realise them through broad cooperation. There are also several other valuable projects in school, such as: driving rules against racism, school mediation, anti- bullying measures and guidance on social competences. Christian Educational Association has followed the work of values in school, and has been inspired to apply for money for a value project called ‘Values in the everyday life of school and kindergarten’. The association is a professional membership organisation for pre-school teachers and teachers with 2,200 pedagogues. So this is not the Prime Minister's value project. There's not a kind of value committee in school, as the questioner suggested. There is a project to which this linked has applied for funding and to which the Government thus supports — one of several projects. The project will complement the overall work on values, both in terms of objectives and instruments, including: because it sees kindergarten and school in context. The Learning Centre has been given the task of coordinating this value project with its own efforts. Christian Educational Association is supported by the Ministry of Education and Research with 500 000 kroner for 2002 and 250 000 DKK from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The Ministry of Education also provides approx. $14 million. kr for different value projects with different proposers. This project is going to go over three years with a total of 4.5 million. kr. The project is a grassroots project. Ideas and practical design shall take place in the schools and kindergartens which wish to participate in the project themselves. Teachers, pre-school teachers, parents and children shall be the main actors. The aim is to establish cooperation with many actors: non-governmental organisations, religious and life views, parents, etc. The aim of the project is to have its anchoring and basis in Christian and humanistic values, as described and interpreted in laws, curricula and frameworks for schools and kindergartens, and it must have its centre of gravity in the shared values of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e742	The Prime Minister probably believes that the best – perhaps not the most sovereign, but the best – to communicate the right values to our children and young people is precisely this organisation, since he himself has been making a spectacular headway in this matter. Everyone who has been in government knows that there is an urgent need for the party's organisation to recognise itself in the policy pursued by the current government. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if this isn't, if he's going to be completely honest, tastes more of internal medicine for his own than a project that's life-created for the Norwegian school. And why haven't the teachers' organizations, with their competence and all the needs for resources we see, got this money to use them for a type of value debate in the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e747	The President will not oppose the fact that the Prime Minister is entirely honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e750	I have to be honest with you. With regard to the other teacher organisations, the Ministry has examined the applications available and has not found that these teacher organisations have applied. And it must be the applicants who get money for a project. Secondly, the representative asks whether this is internal medicine. The answer to that is no. The association has applied as one of several actors, and it has delivered a project which these two departments consider to be technically well-founded, in line with the school's purpose paragraph. It might be interesting to hear if the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim believes that an organization, because it is a Christian, is disqualified. Is it disqualified to be able to apply for money for a project in a school that is actually based on the same value? In addition, I can also inform the representative that the project for «Values in the everyday life of the school» has been initiated by the party colleagues of Bekkemelm Orheim, social democratic parties, in Sweden and Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e757	Would you like further follow-up by the questioner?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e760	I do, President, and I also ask for understanding that when I first have the Prime Minister in front of me, I will take the opportunity to ask questions and not give answers. I have experienced that Bondevik gets very hurt when we dare to ask some critical questions from the opposition. And I can't quite dare myself – I have experienced the role of Bondeviks and not least his own party leader when they're in opposition – I hope that the Prime Minister in the future will not put himself on the somewhat annoying and discouraging tone we sometimes experience from the leader of the party. But then to a specific question: we see that there are marginal amounts to vulnerable groups in our society that do not get their support in this government, and then I'm thinking about a look-up in the VG last week about the transsexual group. It's very easy to pull on the smiling band of it, but this is about weak groups that work in everyday life. That's why I think it's going to be a paradox that we have 4.5 million. kr to that type of value projects, while we do not have money for donations to marginal groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e767	I am not hurt for this at all – I defend it with great boldness. So this project will receive NOK 750,000 this year from a total allocation of SEK 14 million. kr that also goes to other valued projects. The representative of Bekkelem Orheim also allows me the view that the best people to do such work – according to the Prime Minister – is the Kristent Pedagogical Association. I believe that they may be one of several, and it is a little strange to record that others seem to think that they should be disqualified – those who are applicants – and believe that it should go to those who have not applied at all. The Ministry has dealt with an application and considers it to be technically well-founded, together with five-six other valuable projects worth 14 million. In my opinion, NOK 750,000 is actually nothing to shout at so very loudly. So this has nothing to do with ulceration or internal medicine policy. I request that I be taken up on the answers I have provided, and that no opinions be given by the representative of the Bekkelem Orheim. With regard to the specific application she referred to, I do not know how to deal with it. I suppose that in case will be under a different department and a different allocation than this. I'll have to look into that in case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e774	The President will now address questions 19, 22 and 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e780	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘According to a statement in the daily newspaper of 1 March of this year, from 1 April there will be dramatic cuts in diets for travel as well as cuts in the driving allowance of 20 ears. The change in diet rates is also likely to have tax implications, and is in addition to the tax austerity recently adopted by the Stortinget for a company car and a driver’s allowance. Is not the Council of State concerned about the adverse effects such changes may have on the size of the salary line and the willingness to adapt from the employee side?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e789	The rates of diet and odometer compensation are regulated each year through negotiations with the main associations of the country. Thus, once new rates have been arrived at, it is not only in agreement with employees – it is like a reunited outcome of negotiations with employees’ organisations. In this context, I am not concerned about the negative effects of changes on employee attitudes during the forthcoming wage settlement. But let me – since the headlines in the press have been somewhat misleading, to put it mildly – take the opportunity to explain what the above-mentioned changes really are and why they have come about. In the case of diets, there were two things done. One was to merge two agreements, the special agreement on travel domestically and the agreement on travel within the place of employment. This change simplifies both employers and employees. The other change was to adjust the rates for trips without accommodation, for example. taking into account that during such trips it is natural to assume that the worker has eaten breakfast at home and is therefore entitled to a slightly lower diet allowance than on overnight trips. In the first instance, the last adjustment also required the identification of expenditure in order to obtain more than a symbolic remuneration. Fortunately, however, the parties quickly saw that the requirement to legitimise would be bureaucratic and unlucky, and in a new negotiating meeting on 8 March this requirement was therefore removed. Overall, I believe – especially after the new negotiating meeting – that the new dietary rates are both simple and transparent and provide employees with good coverage for actual costs. With regard to the mileage compensation, the negotiations reduced it by 20 kroner – from 3,20 kroner to 3 kroner for distance up to 9000 km and the equivalent for other distances. The background for this was figures showing a decrease in the sum of the costs of car rental — i.e. petrol costs, insurance, maintenance, capital costs, etc. In the last year, these have dropped by between 6 and 7 pst. The main reason for that is lower petrol prices. Since the purpose of the compensation is compensation for actual costs, it must be reasonable for the rates to be regulated in the light of cost developments, both when the costs rise and when they fall. I would like to emphasise the point that the diet and mileage allowance should be proportionate to the actual costs. On the one hand, of course, we have to make sure that it does not cost employees anything to be on a mission. On the other hand, we have to avoid that the bets become so high that they contain elements of frown-gods. I believe that the currently negotiated rates provide a good balance between these considerations and that as such they are a good starting point for the forthcoming wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e804	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Fortunately, it turned out that the diet rates in the daily newspaper were not as bad as it looked at first, and of course it is positive, not least for the employees who depend on and receive diet benefit. But I also have to add that it's only five and six hours of time that actually get a better diet benefit, all the other periods of time will get a worse diet benefit. And I can't understand that this won't have a negative effect on the size of the payroll. When this is true of the fact that the cost of car maintenance has fallen, I am a bit doubtful to each state council they have spoken from. I have a number here from the Road Traffic Information Council that shows that it has not been cheaper to have a car, if one then ignores a technical adjustment when it comes to insurance calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e815	Our numbers are clear. When we look at the sum of the costs of the groups for which we're actually responsible, there's been a decrease of between 6 and 7 pst. And as far as I understand, there's no fundamental disagreement between my department and others about that number base. We have to deal with that. After all, it is not so difficult to understand that the cost of car maintenance has actually decreased when the petrol price alone represents a decrease in the mileage compensation of 10 øre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e820	When it comes to car prices, they have, according to these numbers, rise by 4 pst. The interest rates and the petrol prices have gone down, but overall it's not going to be cheaper to have a car because of these numbers. In this calculation, add a bonus of 65 pst. versus 40 pst. in previous calculations, and it'll actually be a few thousand. So after the information I've collected, if one ignores the technical change in the way of calculating the bonus and the insurance, it's not going to be cheaper to have a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e827	This so-called technical adjustment to which the representative refers is not a technical adjustment, it is based on the fact that the typical person on duty on the State Regulation has a bonus of 65 pst. And as I said in my first post, the purpose of these cost compensations is that they should cover actual costs. It's not supposed to be a good thing. It should not be an evil thing to travel. But we have to figure out rates that reasonably reflect the actual costs that people incur. And I maintain that the rates that are now negotiated, and that is a view that employees' organisations share, provide a reasonable cost compensation. At the same time, it means that we can be sure in front of the payroll that government employees have no benefits in respect of travel allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e837	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Social Affairs: ‘In eight out of ten of the nearly thousands of social security cases that an experienced legal assistant and lawyer has undergone, errors in the proceedings have been detected. In some cases users have lost hundreds of thousands of dollars over several years. The law is complicated, and clients do not get their rights under the law. What will the Council of State contribute to rectifying the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e846	In an article in Moss newspaper on March 7 this year, a lawyer claims that in eight out of ten cases that he is dealing with, there have been errors in the proceedings. After I have been informed by the County Ironing Office in Østfold, this is a matter of disaster. This is essentially a matter of disability pension, but may also include occupational injury, basic and auxiliary benefits. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the conversion of cases usually occurs as a result of a complaint or appeal, and either by the county strike office itself or in the Social Security Court. The County Strategy Office in Eastfold dealt with 32 000 cases in 2001, of which 2 413 were disability pension cases. Of these, 334 cases were filed. The county strike office converted 101 cases, and 155 cases went on to the Social Security Court, which converted 32. New information has been provided in these cases through new medical statements. In a quality survey in the field of disability in Eastfold, 200 cases were examined. The report concludes that 99,4 pst. of the granting cases are correct, and then that 100 pst. the rejection cases are correct. However, with regard to the determination of the impregnation rate, 2.6 pst disagrees. of the cases. In Eastfold, there is a demand for resumption from the same lawyer in 43 cases. These are largely old disability pension cases from the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. The main issues are the time when disability pension is to be granted. In a letter of 8 March 2002 to the lawyer in question, Geir Myhrvold, the County Strategy Office in Eastfold, stated that after reviewing its statistical data, it is difficult to see that the social security system has made eight out of ten cases. At the same time, a detailed documentation of the claim from the lawyer has been requested. Some such documentation has not been received by the social security office. In this context, I would like to distance myself from the claim that the social security system in Eastfold has made eight out of ten social security problems. On the other hand, this is a difficult matter, and one error is too much. I can inform you that the social security system is constantly working on different measures to improve the quality of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e865	I thank the Council of State for the main response. It works basically reassuring, but still. This lawyer has been employed in the social security system and, of course, has very good opinions about this. He goes out and says that in some cases people may have lost money in the hundreds of thousands of dollars class. In a look-up in Moss Avis, the County Street Director also says the following: «From our accounting system, we have found that we have had to pay the costs in a little over 100 of the social security matters that Geir Myhrvold has raised. It is far less than 800 cases in which he claims to have found errors." So there are some mistakes. It can also be derived from the principal answer. I hope that this will now be followed up further, so that we can be reasonably sure that most and, as the Council of State said, preferably everyone gets the right they have to in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e877	I can only confirm that this is a work that the social security system is working on every single day, and that we have also organised better and differently than before. Otherwise, I did not realize that there was any further question in the representative's posts, and I consider the starting point for the question that was answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e884	I thank you for that additional response. In the main reply to me, the Council of State says that the County Street Agency sent a letter on 8 March this year to the relevant lawyer to get a review of his material, and that no such documentation has been received. But there aren't many days since March 8th, so I don't think there's any argument you can use. If the lawyer has gone through 1,000 cases, he needs a little longer time to answer. Will the State Council convene this matter of interest after the answer has arrived to the Social Security Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e891	Provided the mail works the way it should, of course I receive a letter and will respond in a regular way. But the starting point for the question from the representative Hedstrom was a claim that there was an error here in eight out of ten cases, and that is not the case. But of course, one error is one too much, and this is an area that we're working on being nitite, correct and correct. So I'm still going to have attention in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e899	This question, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e902	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘SAS is the fully dominant player in Norwegian and Scandinavian aviation. The Labour Party and the intermediate parties have agreed to believe that it is important for Norwegian interests that the State is a partner in SAS, in line with the Swedish and Danish states. By 1997 at the latest, these parties constituted a majority which considered that the ownership structure was appropriate to serve Norwegian interests. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade of the Right has recently said in the media that the State's shares should be sold. What is the position of the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e911	The SAS consortium was owned until June 2001 by the three parent companies SAS Norge ASA, SAS Danmark A/S and SAS Sverige AB. The parent companies were listed in Oslo, Copenhagen and Stockholm respectively. Half of the shares in each of the parent companies were owned by the respective state, while the other half was owned by private interests. In 2001, this ownership structure of SAS was changed by the establishment of one joint ownership company and the introduction of one class of shares in the company, see below. St. pp. No 72 for 2000-2001, Change in the structure of shares in SAS, and Innst. S. No 287 for 2000-2001. The restructuring was carried out by offering all the owners of the three parent companies to exchange their shares in the corresponding number of shares in a new listed holding company, SAS AB. Following the completion of the transaction, the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish governments respectively own 14,3 pst., 14,3 pst. and 21.4 pst. of the shares in SAS AB. The other 50 pst. the shares are held by private interests. The company is still on the stock exchange in Oslo, Copenhagen and Stockholm. The primary task of the new holding company is to own and manage all shares in the parent companies. The aviation industry is an international and capital-intensive business that is cyclical. Competition in the industry is exacerbated by the deregulation of aviation and a major structural change is taking place towards more powerful and efficient units and the establishment of international alliances. The driving force behind this concentration is the desire to link traffic and distribution systems to an increasingly global system to achieve synergies, capital optimisation and risk diversification. This development implies extensive migration needs. In order to contribute to clearer distinctions between the different governmental roles of the State and the ownership role, responsibility for the State’s interests in SAS was transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade from 1 January 2002. This was done because there are no longer such prominent aviation policy considerations as are ensured by the ownership of SAS. Such considerations are primarily taken into account by law, regulation, concession, public procurement of services in accordance with open tenders and supervisory arrangements. On this basis, I have initially made myself open to consider also the issue of the possible sale of the Norwegian State's shareholding in SAS. At the very least, it is necessary to clarify which aviation policy considerations should be based, where appropriate, as justification for continued State ownership of SAS. I point out that the government has notified me of a big message about ownership for the spring. Here, the State’s interests in SAS will also be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e929	I thank the Council of State for your answer. What I'm busy about is what SAS can expect from its owner, and now I understand it's going to be clarified during the spring. But I want to remind the Council of State that the centre here has meant something completely different – that is, the opposite of what the Council of State here signals. In 1997, the representative, Mr Grimstad, said in a debate in Stortinget on 23 May: ‘When looking back at the history and the foundation for the construction of a Scandinavian air carrier, one finds that this was both important and correct. The Christian People's Party has given its support to the fact that the State is a shareholder in SAS, and sees Scandinavian cooperation through SAS as important.» And she says later in the article: ‘The Christian People’s Party believes that an extension of the 15-year concession and cooperation agreement from 2005 to 2020 is correct.’ In the VG online edition, the state council recently stated that he had not heard any good arguments to preserve state ownership. Does he listen to what the center says?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e948	I am well aware of the views of all the parties represented in this Chamber on this matter, including their positions in 1997. But I believe that in this area it would be sufficient to point to the developments that have taken place not only in SAS, but also in other companies. There is no problem in drawing up a quote from Ausdal Starrfelt's own party friends on what they might have thought about the Telenor ownership, the Statoil ownership, the SAS ownership and one company after another, in 1960, 1970, 1980 and gladly in 1997. The right question is: What do you mean today – what do you mean in the spring of 2002? There has been a deregulation in aviation that makes the societal tasks previously performed by ownership not so prominent in any way. Now it's not like the Council of State has to ask the representative in the main hall, but it might be an opportunity, when we're done, to pass on some of the views that Ausdal Starrfelt had to have on why one should govern through ownership of aviation policy in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e955	I thank you for the answer, insofar as there was any answer, and record that attack is the best defense. It may be that the Council of State thinks he has a bad case. For us in the Working Party, it is important that we retain this ownership in SAS. I'm saying there's a strong concentration in aviation. That means that our company, or what we're part of, will face major challenges. And for us in the Labour Party, it's important that our company survives in this concentration that leads to fewer companies. Then it can be important to have a state ownership. There may also be an invading sport to allow a person to enter into a given situation with other government money. What I wonder more about the general level is why it's life to sell a lot of state-owned axes now that we can't use the money anyway -- why we can't use the state-owned axes to stay with and take care of the social relationships of the companies that it's in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e962	So now the government is going to deliver this message at the end of April, and then it's going to be able to say something about every company. I have not at any time said that it is very important to sell very many shares very quickly. On the contrary, I have said that we do not have a financial reason for the possible sale. That means we have plenty of time to complete the sale of the shares we finally had to decide to sell. And no shares are for sale until Stortinget has given its authority to do so. But in the message we're going to give, I'm going to try to explain the reasons that are there for why it's important to own, and in those companies where I don't find any reason, it's obviously less important to own. At my discretion, it is not a sufficient argument and a sufficient level of precision to say that it is important to keep ownership. There has to be a reason besides that one thinks it's important. There must be some social tasks to be done through each ownership. Per. Today it is difficult to see that there are very many heavy reasons for that. They were much heavier before. There's probably someone yet. But what we're going to do in the individual company, including SAS, I want an exact opinion on, and the government will have an exact opinion on that, April 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e969	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e975	‘The political situation in Madagascar is tense after the elections. Will the Foreign Minister take initiatives that can dampen the tension?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e982	On the Norwegian side, we are deeply concerned about the very difficult situation that has arisen since the presidential elections in Madagascar. As a member of the Security Council, we support two opinions expressing serious concerns about the situation, calling on the parties to find a political solution to the conflict and supporting the African unit organisation, OAU, and Secretary-General Kofi Annan's efforts to find a solution. We have also joined two EU opinions asking the parties for peaceful negotiations and a democratic solution. Norway continues to maintain contact with other key actors, including: The United States and France. The Minister for Development has also contacted his colleagues in the so-called Ulstein network and asked for pressure from them. The opposition candidate, Marc Ravalomanana, who was elected President on 22 February of this year, has proposed the holding of a referendum on the presidential power. There is no explanation as to whether this could take place. The American side has now signaled that they are ready to support such a solution. There is great reason to praise Madagascar's civilian population for having shown great patience in a very difficult situation, and so far to have followed a non-violent line. The important thing now is to call for negotiations so that the people of Madagascar get what they are entitled to: a democratically and legally elected government. From the Norwegian side, we will contact the United States to assess what can be done. In addition, the contacts that OAU has had will be included in our assessment. This, as well as the UN Secretary-General's commitment, will be important for expressing the will of the people in Madagascar.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e997	Thank you for a good and positive answer. At the same time, I have to congratulate and wish to close with the leadership of the Security Council. There's a historic chance for Norway to be involved in international events at a time of great challenges. Therefore, it is a little important in relation to my point of view to give some attention to this conflict as well. We've got an election result that's not public, but at least there's strong suspicion in what direction it's going. In my opinion, people have shown an admirable affirmation with the non-election line. I feel that the world community should stand still on the weak side, so that they get their democracy, keep a country they believe in and are proud of, and can move freely and have free meaning. For this reason, I feel that it is imperative that the most possible initiatives are taken to ensure that this people also get through this conflict in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1004	Thank you for those words from Gedrem! They stress that our foreign policy agenda is tasteful for the time being, and it is nice to be able to do something properly. I think it is deserving that this problem, which has not been covered particularly comprehensively in Norway, is now getting attention as Gedrem expresses it. And I think it's deserving that there are circles in Norway that are very committed to this issue, because the goal must be that people in Madagascar get the government that they democratically claim. And there's no doubt that there are many questions, to say it a little bit cautious, that can travel in the political process that we've had. I've pointed out a lot of tracks where we're supposed to be able to help. There is no doubt that the efforts of the Americans, the OAUs and the United Nations are important here. I am very aware of the strong commitment that is very justified in some places, and we shall try to assist as best we can within the framework that I have now laid down. But as Gedrem also pointed out, our foreign policy agenda is tasteful at the moment. There's no reason to hide it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1009	Finally, I would just like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to pay some attention to this conflict, so that Norway, when it comes to clarifying the situation, can be quick with the right initiatives, including: approval of the election of a hopeful new president, in relation to my point of view. We know, of course, that there are strong Norwegian links historically to Madagascar, not least from the mission's side, and one gets regular reports on the situation there. Very much can be said about what goes on. That is why I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is also paying attention to this area, because it is so much. It is a country that has shown an admirable hold to win the future, so I would ask the Secretary of State to be remarkable despite the fact that there are many conflicts in the world now – including through France, which has a special position in relation to Madagascar – and seek to achieve the results that we share.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1014	I am aware of the different roles you can have here, and our role should be on the side of democracy. That is why we need to pay attention to this conflict. I'll be able to promise. I think it is very important that we now try to resolve this conflict peacefully, that it becomes a tidy transition, and that the steps we take are adapted to this particular goal. But there must be no doubt that the electorate's positions must also be expressed by the country's regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1024	I allowed myself to ask the following questions: ‘How can Norway put the Kurds’ legitimate right to a political solution within the framework of Iraq on the agenda of the Security Council, and is the Government willing to propose that the Security Council appoint an independent expert commission to settle the situation in Iraqi Kurdistan and make various proposals for political solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1031	The Kurds in Northern Iraq are in a very difficult situation. They have been subjected to abuse by neighbouring countries and major suffering from widespread violence and use of power — including weapons of mass destruction — from the regime in Baghdad. The situation in Northern Iraq is currently relatively stable. Both the security and the economic situation are better than for a long time, not least because of the UN's presence and support to international humanitarian organisations in the area. Particularly important for the safety situation is the flight ban zone north of the 36th parallel — which is patrolled by US and British aircraft — and the Kurdish self-government in Northern Iraq. Also the ringing of 13 pst. the revenue generated by the UN Oil for Food Programmes in Iraq to the Kurdish areas has eased the humanitarian situation, which is today much better than in the rest of Iraq. The UN believes that the internal self-government of the Kurds must not undermine Iraq's territorial integrity. This is the basis for all the Security Council resolutions on Iraq. A long-term solution for the Kurds must therefore be found in cooperation with the authorities in Baghdad at all times. The possibilities of such a solution seem very unlikely as long as Saddam Hussein is in power. In addition, any political solution for the Kurds must be based on an agreement between the Kurds, even on how the area should be managed and resources allocated. Today, there is a disagreement about this. An independent expert committee will not be able to contribute to any solution as long as the Kurds themselves do not agree. Furthermore, a Commission could be seen as a direct interference in the internal relations of Iraq, which would be both contrary to the UN Charter and could encourage other groups in Iraq to break free from Baghdad. This will not be in the interest of either the Kurds or the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1042	I thank you for the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway has seen itself in a slightly special situation, because we are in fact ingrained with the development of smart sanctions, sanctions that are supposed to hit the regime in Baghdad instead of the civilian population. And not least, the Foreign Minister commends him for his clear views that one should not go to military operations against Iraq. But does the Foreign Minister see any possibility that we can increase the international deal on what is happening in Northern Iraq? We have seen that after Hussein withdrew, after we had increased self-government in the Kurdish areas of northern Iraq, one has received 70 newspapers and one has received native language education in Kurdish. Overall, civil society is flourishing. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any other possibility that we can support the positive forces that, after all, exist in much of Kurdish Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1049	Thanks for the nice words. In one case, it's probably unfair, in the sense that it's my predecessor, Thorbjørn Jagland, who's not least to be credited for the sanctioning regime becoming something else from May 30 this year. As for the question of the use of military resources, I accept the rose at that point. However, I would like to stress that once it is said, it must be accompanied by a clear glass message to the Iraqi authorities that the UN sanctions must be respected. The requirements of the UN have to be met – full stop, full stop. There must be no discussion about it. Therefore, that message must not be one-sided. That means that we have a responsibility to make sure that it happens. As for the specific question that was asked here, I have to say that we have found the tracks in many ways as far as it is possible to find them now. Our priority in Iraq must be to get the regime in Baghdad to do what the United Nations has said they should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1058	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. Last night, the Security Council, with its decision on a Palestinian state, showed that it is fully possible to incite international settlement. When we talk about Iraq, we don't talk about a Kurdish state of our own – some people do, of course, but here in the Stortinget, we don't talk about a Kurdish state of our own – but about increasing the possibility of co-ordination. If we get up these democratic rights in Northern Iraq, it can pass to the rest of Iraq, too, so that we don't have a development where military operations become necessary, like the Foreign Minister, until those degrees have been good at getting ahead. I want to ask you one more time: can it be possible to increase minority rights and general rights, so that you can avoid new abuses, and that civil society can expand?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1069	I fully agree with Mr Jacobsen that the territorial integrity of Iraq must be safeguarded. I see it in many ways so that many of the questions you ask here are about getting the regime in Baghdad to accept this and base it on it. That's the first prerequisite for moving on here. The regime that is in Baghdad now is also a very, very negative regime in this context. There's one of many reasons why we have to keep a hard pressure on the regime in Baghdad. If it turns out that they could change on points, it's possible that there are openings here. But I hope that the representative Jacobsen will also be able to put a hard pressure on the Iraqi authorities so that, as I said, they do not misunderstand what we have said about the use of military resources, and believe that they have a little more to go on than they had in the past – they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1077	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘After the new valuation rules for power plants, municipalities were reduced from 2000 to 2001 their property tax income from approximately EUR 15 million. 1.2 B.C.E. kr to approx. 900 million. kr. For the municipalities of the country as a whole, the reduction is 25 p.m., but for some, such as Kvinesdal, the decline was significantly greater. The Council of State notes that the 2002 tariff base has not changed significantly compared to 2001, and that the municipalities will also receive approximately this year. 300 million. kr less in tax revenue than for 2000?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1086	The new valuation rules for property taxes on power generation plants introduced from 2001 onwards imply that property taxes are based more on the profitability of the installations than in the past. This includes, inter alia: the level of electricity prices has a greater impact on property taxes on power plants than before. In periods of high electricity prices, property taxes will be high, whereas the counterpart is lower income from property taxes when power prices are low. For example: to secure the income from property taxes in low-priced periods, the new legislation introduces a minimum value on the property tax base of SEK 1,1 per kWh of normal production. The Ministry does not have information that the property tax from power plants was DKK 1.2 billion in 2000, as the representative states in his question. In Ot.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000, the Ministry estimated that the total income of municipalities in 2000 was approximately 1060 million. kr. With the new legislation, some 910 million were made available in 2001. kr. According to these figures, it can be estimated that the revenues of municipalities were reduced by about 150 million. NOK 300 million and not SEK 300 million. kr, as the representative claims. The majority of the population accepted such a short-term decline in revenue. This was mentioned in the Innst. O. No 85 for 1999-2000, where the majority, consisting of all parties other than the Right and the Advance Party, stated that: ‘In the view of the majority, the proposal submitted must be in line with the majority’s intentions on the level of total revenue for power generation plants, despite the fact that overall revenue in 2001 is slightly lower than 1 billion. The majority estimate that prices for the current year are relatively low and that total proceeds will increase with increasing prices.» The tax director's statement of the tax base of the power plants for the tax year 2002 shows that property tax will amount to approximately 910 million for the current year. as a result of low power prices from 1997 to 2000. However, the increase in electricity prices since 2000 indicates that the property tax for 2003 could be higher than in the years 2001 and 2002. In addition, an evaluation of the new valuation rules for property taxes on power plants will be carried out during 2002, as otherwise announced in a previous stock bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1102	I thank you for your answer. It surprises me that the department is uninformed about the figures given by the municipalities here. In its 2002 budget, several municipalities used the same assumptions as the Stortinget had expressed in the context of the implementation of §8 in 2001. Now it turns out that this doesn't work, and that the compensation of $25 million. kr, to which the Ministry provided in 2001, is not adequately compensated. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: will the Government increase the level of compensation so that municipalities which have been affected by the decision beyond the assumptions of the Grand Duchy do not have to cut their welfare offers due to the decision also for 2002? And will the Minister of Finance ensure that the conversion of Section 8 is evaluated so that we get the consequences of the welfare provision in the municipalities affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1109	On the last question, I have already answered. That is a result of the participation of the representative of Klungland in the majority that has decided that it should be evaluated during the current year. I tried in a relatively diplomatic way in my first answer to say that the department believes that the numbers the representative is operating with are crazy. And the representation of the tariff base given in the last part of the question is also a crazy notion of what the Storting has decided. The tariff base is, of course, the same, taking into account the fact that the power plants are there. But I have already stated in my reply that the tariff is also affected by the profitability of the power plants, and it is not unchanged from year to year. Then ask the representative of Klungland who is best to predict profitability in the power plants, department or municipalities. I think it's proven that the department under changing political leadership is making something better than the sum of the forecasts of the power stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1118	The loss of income of municipalities has been significantly greater than foreseen by the Stortinget, and the number of municipalities in need of compensation has been significantly higher than that foreseen by the Ministry of Finance. I want to use a local example: the municipality of Kvinesdal, which has made a budget out of promises from the Stortinget and the Ministry, and now gets its budget signed by the county council, probably with 5 million. kr. That's why I am surprised that the Ministry of Finance has not been informed about the situation in Kommune-Norway and is still sticking to the fact that the number will be about approx. 165 million. kr. Will the Minister of Finance ensure that the conditions of the Storting are met so that these municipalities can add 15 pst. a reduction in the number of years to come and thus have some longer-term framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1125	I have a certain impression that the representative is now reading something he has with him in advance. I have just answered that question by referring to the fact that the bulk of the population has actually been satisfied with the result of the first year of new taxation rules, and I have quoted a rather long extract from Innst. O. No 85 for 1999-2000. In response to the question of whether this will be followed up by an evaluation, I can once again confirm that we will. But it is not the sum of the forecasts of the power stations that form the decision base of the Storting. It is the actual income generated by the power plant tax, which will constitute the evaluation, and not the results of individual municipalities’ own budgets. Without going into the Municipality of Kvinesdal in particular, it has to be said that sometimes the budget allocation of municipalities has a greater impact on both this type of tax revenue and other income than on realistic forecasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1132	Question 5 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1138	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Culture and the Church: «I St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000 it says that the Riksarchiver has proposed to move the Nordlands section from the Stadsarchivet in Trondheim to the Tromsø department. Now it looks like he's planning this move without those who get the most vulnerable if it's moved, that is, the users, being informed about this. Such a move will lay the entire historical environment around Nordic research. What is the situation today, and what will happen in the future?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1147	It is true that in 1999 the Stortinget was briefed that the National Archives had been called upon to change the limits of responsibility between the state archives in Trondheim and Tromsø. The change is that previous and future deliveries of archives by state institutions in the Nordic region will be found in Tromsø instead of Trondheim. The Storting had no comments on this when the message about archives, libraries and museums was received in December 2000. In the budget proposal for the current year from the government of Stoltenberg, the Ministry of the National Archives gave a clear signal to prepare such a transfer. Nor did Storting have any notes for this. Today, the state archive in Trondheim is the most heavily charged state archive. In addition to Nordland, the district includes both the two Trøndelagsfylka and Møre and Romsdal. The delivery chain is particularly large, about ten times larger than the average of the seven other state archives in the country. Transferring responsibility for Nordland to the State Archives in Tromsø will create better balance between state archives with regard to tasks and resources and will make it easier to reduce the large delivery set-up that weighs on the State Archives in Trondheim. However, the main reason for the change is that one of these results in a 20 pst reduction. count in the net area of the extension of the State Archives in Trondheim that is now at the door. This is due to the fact that one can add less storage space than one else would need when this state archive is no longer to house the previous and future shipments from the Nordic countries. In Tromsø, an expanded warehouse building is soon completed that is large enough to meet delivery needs both from the current district and from Northern Ireland for 20-25 years to come. All in all, it is so good to make this change, both in the short term and in the long term, that such a solution is not to be avoided. According to the plans of the Riksarchiver, the transfer of the previously submitted archives will be possible in 2003. For people in Northern Ireland who have to visit the State Archives to access original archives, the change implies that they have to travel initially to Trondheim instead of Trondheim. Researchers in Trondheim who have been used to going to the State Archives to study original archives from Nordland will be able to continue doing so – as before. It will be arranged through the deposits of state archives. I can therefore not see that this will have such negative consequences as the representative of Stensaker fears. The state archives will stretch far to accommodate researchers, either in Trondheim or in Tromsø. I would also like to add that a lot of archive material is available in copy form through microfilms, and that more and more digitisation is taking place. This means that many user groups gradually become less dependent on visiting the state archives or the National Archives to get the archive information they are looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1164	I thank you for your answer. It's okay with electronics, but it's also clear that you're dependent on paper archives. When the Riksarchiver now plans this move on his own, you have to react. Such a move will destroy the entire historical environment around Nordic research. For all years, Nordland has been under the State Archives in Trondheim. If you move this department to Tromsø, the work on history research in Nordland will be very difficult. Almost all farm and genealogical history from Nordland has a different material connection with Trondheim. Historians from all over the Nordic region are strongly responding to these plans. A move will considerably exacerbate the work, as all the other information is to be found in Trondheim. Does the Minister of Culture think that this research is irrelevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1173	No, I don't think this research is of any importance. I react a little when the representative Steinsaker says that the Swedish National Archives are planning this on their own. I want to remind him of what I said in my first answer, that this was handled in connection with the ABM message. There were no comments from Stortinget's side. This was mentioned and also given a clear signal in the state budget for the year we are now in. Nor did there come any comment from Stortinget's page. In fact, the National Archives are doing what they are allowed to do: to make better use of resources. And I'm absolutely sure that both Tromsø and Trondheim will do their best to ensure that Nordic research is given the help they need in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1182	I thank you again for the answer. But once again, I would like to point out that when you plan such a move without the users actually being on the load, it strongly reminds me of bureaucratic overrides. I don't think that's the right way to treat history researchers. One argument for the move is the space needed. But an extension in Trondheim is planned, and the plot is ready. It turns out that Tromsø is now expanding for 20-25 years in time. I think it bears witness to poor planning when you build with such overcapacity. I'm looking for the real reason for the move. I can't see that it's the ones to use the archive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1193	I must honestly admit that if planning for 20-25 years ahead of an archive is bad planning, I would say that if one had built for five or ten or fifteen years ahead, it would really have been bad planning. Because then one had to have replaced again a few years after the extension period was over. To underline it again: this is to make better use of resources. I thought that a representative of the Progress Party would be busy getting both cheaper and more rational solutions, so that the different research environments get good relationships. I would like to remind you – as I said – that the acquisition of material in Trondheim is so large that a need for a better distribution between the different archives in relation to the job and the challenge they are going to face. If one had added everything to Trondheim, one had to have built out far more than what is now right. I would also like to remind the representative from the Progress Party that the Progress Party in its last budgetary management would reduce the operating costs of the Archives by 5 million. kr – approximately the same amount as the salary budget of the State Archives in Trondheim. If this was an area that the Progress Party really prioritised, they should have taken it up when managing the budget for this year, and they should have taken it up when we handle the ABM message. At least they shouldn't have cut the transfers for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1204	So we go to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1210	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘A number of municipalities have tried, through their food and land plans, to dispose of land and sea land in a comprehensive manner so as to reconcile different wishes for the development of the farming industry. This applies, among other things, to the municipality of Snillfjord in the South Trøndelag. To what extent will central authorities respect local priorities in relation to such issues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1219	Access to land is one of the most important framework conditions for the aquaculture industry. It is desirable that, through up-to-date planning, municipalities facilitate the clearing and securing of sufficient and satisfactory areas for environmentally sound and healthy aquaculture production. The aquaculture industry is managed by the Breeding Act, with the Ministry of Fisheries as the responsible authority. The Regional Office of the Directorate of Fisheries takes decisions on the location of aquaculture activities and, in the processing of site requests, the municipality is involved as a consultation body. Fisheries management does not locate aquaculture activities in violation of municipal spatial plans. Furthermore, it is very rare for regional offices to go across the recommendations we receive from municipalities in the handling of locality applications. I therefore believe that the management of fisheries largely respects the priorities that have been set at local level. This applies in relation to both municipal plans and individual case treatment. Stortingsrepresentative Arnstad referred to the municipality of Snillfjord in his question. In the municipality of Snillfjord, we have had a situation where a request was made for a concession for bluefish farming and salmon farming within the same area. Due to distance requirements between installations, it was not appropriate to authorise both applicants to operate at the site. In this case, the municipality of Snillfjord wanted to give priority to the cultivation of shellfish rather than the rearing of salmon and trout, in order to ensure agriculture the possibility of complementary industries. The purpose of the Breeding Act is to contribute to the balanced and sustainable development of the farming industry and to become a profitable and viable district industry. In this I add that the aquaculture industry is primarily to develop as an independent industry, and not primarily as an ancillary industry. In my view, rearing salmon and trout will be the focus of Norwegian aquaculture both today and in the future. The market economy is in high growth, but there is still some uncertainty about future production and profitability. In this context, therefore, the fisheries authorities generally give priority – I stress, as a rule – to the rearing of salmon and trout in front of other species in competition for land and locations. It is only in cases where there is competition for the site that the issue becomes relevant. The location of aquaculture activities by the fisheries management should, in my view, be done within the framework of municipal interests. However, in the management of the industry, national considerations could in exceptional cases take precedence over local interests. My conclusion then, both in general and in relation to the particular issue, namely the municipality of Snillfjord, is that I believe that, as a general rule, the view of the municipality should be given decisive importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1240	I thank you for an answer that I choose to interpret far in the positive direction. I agree with the views of the Council of State on the respect for the overall planning tool used by the municipalities, and the attempt to balance the location made by the municipality. This is not an easy problem for any coastal municipalities, but it is very important for very many coastal municipalities. In this specific case, the municipality of Snillfjord, it is competing applications. But the fish breeder says he doesn't take it so very seriously if he gets a no. There are other possibilities, other locations. It also points to the municipality. He also has three farming sites from before in the same area. For its part, the municipality emphasises that there must be opportunities to exploit different types of farming, both in food and shellfish farming, and also in the more local context. Can I interpret the Council's response so far that, in this case, he is willing to review and enter into a renewed dialogue with the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1251	I insist that we in the management of aquaculture should place great emphasis on the views and priorities of municipalities, but that in specific cases there is a need to take national account. With regard to this particular matter, I understand that the dispute request has now been withdrawn. It is clear from the municipality’s case-law that it is considered that the fisheries management has contributed to the applicant’s success. In that case, it is not unproblematic at my discretion. I have been informed by the regional office that they have actually credited the applicant for a shell concession and have informed me of the possibility to get the treatment fee back, because a positive treatment of the locality request was considered unlikely. In general, I would not recommend such a procedure. On the other hand, it could be in some cases – I stress that it has to be in very special cases – that it can be interpreted as a voluntary offer from the administration to save the applicant for expenditure. So it can have both positive and negative sides. However, where an applicant has made an application, the application shall be carried through to a final examination, with the costs which it will incur for the applicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1260	I'm a little bit unsure about how to interpret that recording. It is clear that those who have applied felt pressured to withdraw the application, precisely because of the costs it entails for those who are going to establish themselves and who are quite large. They felt that the signal from the regional office was so overwhelming that they had no chance of getting a positive treatment of the application. There is a procedure that can be called into question, when they so clearly inform an applicant that one cannot expect anything, it is just as easy to draw the application. That's now one thing. The other important thing here is that the municipality feels disappointed because it has entered into a major project related to the project on integrated coastal industry. They've trained people in how to drive shell farming. They have felt that they have been encouraged by the central authorities and that they have managed to balance and safeguard the interests of both fish farmers, national interests and their own local interests. If the municipality again addresses this issue with the fisheries authorities, is there any possibility that they may be re-assessed on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1271	We are going to be very careful in Stortingen to deal with individual matters. The management of fisheries must take considerable account of the priorities of a municipality. We have, and we will, also with the background of this matter. But I stress that if it is right, as the municipality produces it, that the fisheries management has acted in such a way that the applicant has felt pressured to withdraw the application, it is not an unproblematic procedure, and I have addressed that with the fisheries management. We don't have to worry about it that way. I have been informed from the regional office, as I said in my previous reply, that the applicant has withdrawn the application, and they had then announced that the fee would be refunded in that case. I choose that as a positive gesture from the administration, because we want, certainly both the representative Arnstad and I, an administration that is customer-friendly, and that gives applicants the opportunity to save costs. However, it is important that the applicant ultimately maintains the application. If the application is promoted, the administration must deal with it in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1280	Then we go back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1287	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: ‘In the last three months, two brothels have been revealed in Bergen, where foreign women are exploited by cynical organised criminals. Many of these women have given frightening descriptions of their situation in life. In the Bergens newspaper on March 3rd this year, it appears that even though the brothels are well known, Hordaland police districts have not given priority to these matters. What will the Council of State do to make the police a priority in combating insidious activities higher?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1296	Hallic activities are affected by the penal code § 206. It is a fact that Norway is the recipient country for foreign prostitutes. There are women from Asia and Latin America, but an increasing number come from Eastern Europe, especially the Baltic countries and Russia. Until recently, there has been largely an activity in the indoor prostitution market. The problem exists mainly in Oslo and in some of the other cities. In addition, such activities are registered on the basis of Murmansk to Northern Norway. In an international context, this type of cross-border sex trade is referred to for Trafficking in Women. This is an international problem, such as: has led Interpol to set up a working group working on this theme, Interpol Working Group on Trafficking in Women. Norway is actively involved in this work, where Kripos has been designated as a national contact point. In these matters, we also cooperate with the other Nordic countries and the Baltic countries through the Baltic Sea Task Force, which is an association of the countries of the Baltic Sea region, precisely to intensify the work against cross-border crime, which is the hallic activity of the kind the representative asks for. A Protocol on trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children, has also been drawn up in the context of the UN Convention against Transnational Organised Crime. Norway has signed the Convention and it shall be followed by ratification. The Protocol highlights the commitments made by countries to combat trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children. with a purpose of prostitution. As regards the issue of any organised brothel activities in the Hordaland Police District, the Ministry of Justice, after consulting the Police Directorate, has no indication that such activities are being carried out to a greater extent in the district. It has also not been as far as possible to identify who has been behind the cases of offering sexual services in return for payment, which have been made by foreign women. I take seriously that brothel or cynically exploits foreign women. Many of these women come under compulsion, for example: by being dependent on money for drugs, or by being afraid of being exposed without legally staying in the country. This can therefore also be seen as an assault on women. In several cases, such activities can be seen as organised crime, as I have previously experienced. However, the prioritisation of criminal proceedings by the police is entrusted to the higher prosecution authority and, finally, to the National Attorney. The Minister of Justice is therefore unable to intervene in the Riksadvokat's responsibilities. I would therefore like to contact the Riksadvokat on the question. The fact that the police have enough resources to fight crime is my responsibility. I can assure you that Hordaland Police District will have the resources to deal with such crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1313	I thank you for your answer. It seems that the Minister of Justice shares the analysis we have in SV, on the need to combat the prostitution market in Norway if we want to fight effectively ‘trafficking’. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice will take an initiative on this matter. But I have to be allowed to point out that his description of the situation at the Hordaland police district is not the same as the police district, and that when journalists from the Bergensavisen are able to find out to the backmen behind the brothel in Bergen, the police should be able to do it. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to a quotation in the Bergensavisen Sunday, February 17 from a spokesman for the Hordaland Police District, where he confirms that these matters have been downgraded. ‘We do so in general because it is often difficult to identify the specific illegal nature of the matters referred to in the report’. he says. This despite the fact that it happens openly. What is the State Council's comment on this priority from the Hordaland Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1331	The information I have now given, that there is no indication that such activities are being carried out to a greater extent, and that it has not been possible to reveal those behind them, I have obtained through the Police Directorate. It may well be that the business you are facing in Bergen could be of interest to the part of the police called ‘Catch’. It's a relationship I need to look into. But as I said, prioritisation in terms of concrete criminal matters is a matter for the National Attorney General, while the issues relating to resource use are attached to the Council of State, i.e. to myself, through the Police Directorate, and, in my knowledge, the police district should have the opportunity to deal with this. There is also cooperation between central police units such as ‘Catch’ and local police districts when you just see the evidence of large flows of money, i.e. money laundering. In general, it is known that this happens in the context of prostitution, drug abuse and serious crime, so that I am generally aware of it and will take it further with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1342	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to point out once again that when the local press in Bergen has been able to detect several cases of organised brothel business in the last six months, and has also found out about the backmen, it is difficult to understand how the police, firstly, cannot be aware of this, and secondly, cannot be able to penetrate the matter more deeply. I would like to quote something that is stated in the annual report to Pion, the Prostitute's Association of Interests, where they say: ‘The feedback we receive is that the police do not have the resources to check and follow up these enquiries.’ Pion thinks this is very critical. My question to the Minister of Justice will then be: When the Minister of Justice signals that he will make an enquiry to the Attorney General, what are the signals that the Council of State wants to give to the Advocate General?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1358	What happens in that context is not something I can come up with here, for the prioritisation of the activities of the prosecutor's office belongs to the Riksadvokat and not to the Minister of Justice. What I have said is that Norway is bound by international protocols and agreements. We also participate in a working group against ‘trafficking’. Now, I don't know what's going on in Bergen, but good reporters can come up with things. But the police, in order to have a case, must have witnesses, and they must also have witnesses who hold fast to the testimonies when bringing a case to justice. Therefore, it may be that outreach journalists can quickly describe a phenomenon that we both agree on and are reprehensible, while providing evidence and witnesses to a case is another form of activity. I'm of course, as I've said before, generally concerned that this should be taken seriously. That is why I have also given the signals that I have given in my main response to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1373	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Justice: ‘With the new rules on special reactions, it is not possible to attribute the specific reaction ‘forced mental health protection’ to offences which cannot endanger the lives or health of others. On 11 June 2001, the European Parliament adopted the following resolution: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess a change in the penal code, in order to ensure that unpredictable offenders who commit clearly socially harmful crimes are more likely to be convicted than at present of mandatory mental health protection or forced care.’ How will the Council of State follow up this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1382	It is important for me to recall, at the outset, that it is a fundamental principle of Norwegian criminal law that all illegitimate offenders are punishable. To be punished, the perpetrator must have had a minimum degree of maturity and physical health. Unpredictable offenders are offenders who were psychotic or highly evolutionary or unconscious at the moment of the crime. The special reaction reform, which entered into force on 1 January 2002, involves dealing with the illegitimate offenders in a way that takes account both of their specific needs and of society’s need for security. Psychotic people can be judged for the special reaction of shifting to mandatory mental health protection, while those with developmental disabilities may be forced to take care of the special reaction. Before 1 January 2002, unpredictable offenders could in principle be sentenced to protection for any offence. In practice, there were serious crimes against the lives, health and freedom of others that resulted in security. However, in a few cases security was also condemned for, among other things, Winning crimes. The new special reaction rules were adopted by Law 17 January 1997 No. 11, and entered into force on 1 January 2002, cf. Law 15 June 2001 No Sixty-four. Timeless special reactions were considered to be so invasive that they would apply only to dangerous offenders: the offender must have committed or attempted to commit a serious violent or sexual offence, detention, fire or any other serious crime that violated the life, health or freedom of others, or could endanger those assets. However, even minor offences of the same nature may lead to a special reaction if they have previously committed or attempted to commit such a serious crime. Thus, the perpetrator of violence would be able to be judged to have a special reaction. There must also be a risk of repetition. The conditions are more stringent than before, but I would like to stress that society can still protect itself against those who are dangerous. However, unpredictable offenders who are not dangerous but annoying cannot be subjected to a special reaction. Such safeguards were practised are not the difference from the previous ones. I will follow up the decision of Storting in several ways. Firstly, I would like to take an initiative with the Minister of Health in a short time. Furthermore, I would like to discuss the matter with the national lawyer at the next contact meeting. In parallel, I will follow developments closely to see how the provisions on special reactions for unpredictable work in practice. I think there might be reason to consider this issue before the general back-up after about three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1399	Thank you. I agree with the Council of State that the basic legal principle that unaccountable prisoners are punishable should be applied. But at the same time, I disagree with the Council of State that this is not a change in practice. In fact, I believe that the writing that came from the Riksadvokat shows that there are major changes. In Circular No. 4/2001 the Advocate General points out that the main change to the scheme in relation to recent practices is that under the new rules it is not possible to attribute special reactions to offences which cannot endanger the lives, health or freedom of others and that there is actually a difference in relation to the old regime. We now also have a case from Stavanger City Court that shows the same thing. My question to the Council of State is whether he agrees with the Riksadvokat that it is not acceptable that some offenders are perceived to have a free ticket to commit extensive or painful crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1408	Of course, I generally agree that no one should have a free ticket. I stand by the description I have given, but to be absolutely sure that what is happening in practice, is also what is meant to be expressed, among other things. In response from my predecessor, former state councillor Harlem, in Stortinget, I would like to contact the Minister of Health to look at the possibility against the law on mental health protection. And if it is that there has to be changes to the penal code § 39 paragraph. 1, I will take the initiative to do this before the post-control period in three years, if practice shows that it is necessary. I have said that in the main answer, and I would like to repeat that, among other things. on the basis of the main principle that the questioner now asked me openly, namely whether someone should have a free ticket or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1415	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and have been more reassured that he will follow this matter closely, so that we avoid in some cases being perceived as having a free ticket. After all, this new insurance scheme came into force on 1 January, and I want to ask the Council of State questions about how it works in general, because we know that many years have passed from Stortinget for the first time to deal with a system of custody until it comes into force, precisely because it has been uncertain whether psychiatry was able to accept those who would be included in the system of compulsory health protection. My question to the Council of State is whether he has the impression that this system is working, that he has a good offer, among other things. to prisoners under the compulsory mental health protection scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1424	I used to answer in the Questionnaire in general how we have to be concerned about acquittals against criminals or people put in custody, or in any other way being forced to treat society, that it is as correct as possible. That's a question that I'm going into hard. It is in the answer I have previously given that I want to contact the Minister of Health and the Attorney General. I will then look at both the legal and as quickly as possible also gain practical experience with the scheme, so that I am up-to-date with regard to it. I perceive the representative's concerns so that we should not allow any interfaces – to say so – to develop without observation. And the content of my previous answers – and this too – is that I want to do my part to ensure that they are followed, and that the appropriate measures that are needed are taken, whether in relation to the law on mental health protection or in relation to the provision of the criminal law that I have previously had.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1431	We go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1438	This question, from Geir-Ketil Hansen to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1441	‘The national racial protection team has estimated that it will cost 15 billion. to ensure race for the public road network in Norway. The Racial Protection Action Programme has a 2 billion-billion-dollar framework. kr by 2005. The funds in this year's budget make us in arrears to achieve the objective of the action programme. It is urgent to secure the most razed road sections in the country. What will the Government do to get ahead of this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1448	I agree with the representative Hansen that the importance of racial protection is great in a country with Norway's geography, not least this winter has proved it. Increased security of life and health, both in urban and rural areas, is an important reason why the Government has ambitions for a much more offensive transport policy. At the same time, the Government has launched a series of efficiencies to get ‘more out of each krone’, among others. the full outsourcing of road production. Overall, this will provide increased opportunities to move safely in the areas of the country where there are many razed roads and to continue the necessary measures. The follow-up to the RACE Action Plan must be seen in the context of the national transport plan and its follow-up through action programmes and the annual budget. The action programmes, which give a priority order of investment measures on the road network, were dealt with politically in spring 2001. The municipalities then gave an opinion to the Road Directorate’s proposal for investment on the main road network, while they had a decisive authority in relation to the priorities of the other national road network, cf. Inner. S. No 119 for 2000–2001 on the National Transport Plan 2002–2011, page 147, where it reads: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progressive Party, indicates that the county councils make the distribution of the framework on the other national road network.’ This policy approach gave priority to projects to be implemented within the economic planning framework for the period 2002-2005. In this context, racial protection measures were seen in the context and prioritised against other policy areas, such as road safety, public transport, the construction of pedestrian and cyclist roads, environmental measures, etc. These policy priorities underpin the focus on racial security measures — as well as other types of action — in the preparation of the annual budgets. In 2002, some 320 million were allocated. to projects and measures with racial protection gains. The Committee on Transport has examined St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 asked the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a briefing on the progress of the Racial Security Action Plan, at the latest in the context of the revised 2002 national budget. A statement will be submitted to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1462	I thank you for your answer. I may not think that the minister was very clear about whether he wants to invest more money in racial protection, because the central thing here is that there is too little money in this country to meet the programmes and plans that have been adopted and underpinning racial protection. In addition, the National Race Insurance Group, which consists of people from the seven most at risk, has estimated that it will cost NOK 15 billion. That is to say, if we are to follow the action programme, which amounts to DKK 2 billion until 2005, it will take 25-30 years before we have racially secured the national road network. Racism represents both a major security problem and a major problem of accessibility for a large proportion of the population in this country, particularly in the West and North Norway. Racism is also a major problem for industry, not least for the fishing industry and the aquaculture industry. So we do not allow enough, and I must therefore challenge the Minister again: can the Council of State be more clear as to whether the Government will invest more in racial protection, both in relation to the revised national budget and in relation to the next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1473	The representative and I have a common description of the importance of racial protection, both in terms of the conditions he mentions, and in terms of the work of the racial protection group. It is now the case that the priorities are carried out by the county councils. We're both going to take that into account. But what is the government's responsibility is through budgets to make sure to respond to the challenges that exist, and then it's up to the Biggest to deal with it. As the Council of State, I have neither in the deputy position I have now had, in the former role in that position nor in my present role as Minister of Justice used to distribute money before I have them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1480	Then we go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1486	I have this question for the Minister of Health: ‘There is reason to believe that only half of children with ADHD receive help. Only 3,000 children are treated with Ritalin, which is one of several relief measures. That so few get adequate help is very serious since these children are often hyperactive with lack of concentration and impulse control. Many young people with ADHD ‘medicate’ themselves with drugs, and in prisons people with ADHD are overrepresented. Does the Council agree that initiatives are now needed to help children and adults with ADHD, and what will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1495	Of today’s children’s population, one expects 10-20 pst. have mental disorders that inhibit their daily functioning, and that probably 5 pst. of which they need treatment. Children and young people with behavioural disorders make up 20 pst. by the references to mental health protection, while 13 pst. has hyperactivity as a reference reason. For both diagnostic groups, there's a clear frequency of boys. Some of these get the diagnosis of ADHD. It is a challenge to diagnose ADHD and to limit this diagnosis from other forms of anxiety, concentration problems, poor impulse control and behavioural problems. ADHD or Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder is a relatively new diagnosis. Health attitudes and offers to people diagnosed with ADHD will vary depending on their age group. There are strict criteria for the use of stimulants in adults diagnosed with ADHD. Treatment is granted on application and authorisation from the State Health Authority. In the case of children and young people under 18 years of age, the effectiveness of stimulants is thought to be good, and professional environments are therefore more liberal in regulating such medications. There is a relatively broad technical agreement that a thorough investigation must be carried out before the diagnosis is made and, where appropriate, Ritalin given to children and young people. Similarly, regulation of stimulants should never be given alone, but should always be part of a social educational training programme and followed up with treatment and advice for children, relatives, kindergarten or school and, where appropriate, others related to the child. It is a serious problem the representative addresses, and I fully agree with the representative, Valle, that both children and adults with the diagnosis of ADHD need adequate help. Auxiliaries do a lot of good work. At the same time, I am aware that today's response apparatus is absolutely not good enough, either in terms of capacity or competence. There are also many relatives and patients who experience that the auxiliaries do not function properly enough. This is also the background to the Roadmap for Mental Health, which means that resources are invested over the years 1999-2006 in order to expand and ensure the quality of the supply to people with mental health disorders. A significant part of this effort shall be devoted to the mental health protection of children and young people. Research, knowledge and competence building, including: within the field ADHD. An explicit objective of mental health protection services is that they are increasingly to be based on research-based knowledge. Since 1994, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, together with the Ministry of Education and Research, has financed the National Unit of Competence for AD/HD, Tourette’s syndrome and Narkolepsy. The unit provides guidance and training for health professionals and keeps up to date on national and international research in the field. In mental health protection for children and young people, there are increasing numbers of neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric competence teams within outpatient clinics or at the central hospital level. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health devote considerable resources to the development and implementation of new and internationally recognised treatments to help children and young people with major behavioural problems and their closest ones. An important effort is also being made to prevent mental illness in children and young people. Nevertheless, here we have a great potential for improvement, not least in coordinating and targeting measures. This requires efforts from all those involved in childhood and youth, in particular the school points out with measures aimed at bullying and drug abuse and at preventing the spread and marginalisation of individual liver. The Government is committed to prioritising the development of actions and knowledge in the field of ADHD. I have entrusted the Social and Health Directorate with the task of starting work on a strategy for a targeted effort in relation to children and young people with mental illness. In this context, I would like to ask the professional authority to pay particular attention to the need for a specific effort related to ADHD.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1510	I thank you for your answer. I think it was very good in that answer. I think it is important that we recognise how serious this problem is. Every day these children are told how impossible they are, because many of them either have learning difficulties or problems in interacting and playing with others. That's why I've seen that many of them have psychological additional problems because of this. It is necessary for these children to have a set of measures, some of which do not concern the Minister of Health — among others. he mentioned the school. I've seen how important it is, for example. providing these children with opportunities for physical activity, but it is also about diet, it is about psychiatric help, and it is often about early relief measures to see if these children have ADHD problems. My question to the Council of State is: Will he take the initiative in an action plan to help these children, in order to get the overall grip that the Minister of Health pointed out was necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1519	I agree with the representative, Valle, that there must be a whole picture here. These children and young people often need help from many agencies. It is therefore essential to have a good interaction between healthcare, child protection, specialised educational services, etc. and not least with the parents and other relatives. I believe that the implementation of the new provisions on individual treatment plans for those with long-term and co-ordinated needs will be an important tool for meeting this group. In addition, skills need to be strengthened through centres of excellence, as I was within. To the direct question of a separate strategy: the mission I have now given to the Social and Health Directorate to create a targeted strategy for children and young people with mental disorders will address this issue. I'll make sure that this becomes a topic in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1526	I also thank you for that answer and would like to stress how important it is that you also go with schools and kindergartens. This is going to be the leading arena for help. In this context, I would like to stress the need for those who are closest to their children, among others. in kindergartens and schools, the provision of skills development. The message I have received is that economics often stop opportunities for development of competences. Then my question is, will the Council of State open up the possibility that psychiatry drugs can be used in the development of competences for those who are closest to their children? The second question concerns adults. I'm very concerned that the prisons are overrepresented by these prisoners. I get a letter praying for help, and that they do not get the help they need, among other things. Because prison health services are not working. Will the Council of State look at and investigate what kind of help prisoners get with ADHD problems, and ensure that they get the help they need, and possibly medication, so that they can work better when they get out of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1533	First of all, let me fully agree that it is important that those who meet the children early and are close to them have enough knowledge to realize that there are people who need professional help. Building skills in this regard is important. There are resources for action on competences in the Pedagogical Health Action Plan, without me being able to address individual groups in this context here and now. But I'm concerned that school health services and health centres need to be strengthened in relation to getting to early. This is, of course, part of the healthcare service that meets the entire young population at a very critical and vulnerable stage, and therefore, the strengthening of health centres is an important part of the Roadmap for mental health. Let me end by saying, as far as prison health services are concerned, I would like to look at the questions that the representative Valle raises in connection with the follow-up to the general supervision of health services last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1551	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1557	This question, from the representative of Ottar Kaldhol to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1560	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Modern cardiac clinics such as The Heart Center and the Celebrating Clinic have had dramatic cuts up to 40 p.m. at the national rates for the treatment of cardiac patients. These institutions perform very effectively a comprehensive part of Norwegian heart surgery. Such clinics have all their income through state funding, and a completely necessary offer for Norwegian cardiac patients is now at risk. What does the Council of State intend to do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1569	As the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen is well-known, the funding of hospitals is partly provided through a basic allocation to the public hospitals and partly through the input-driven funding that now amounts to 55 pst. of the total funding. Reimbursements from input-driven funding are based on the so-called DRG system and data from a sample of the country’s hospitals on activity and costs. In 2002, a new reimbursement basis based on analysis of cost and activity data is used at 17 of the country’s hospitals in 2000. The research-based analyses have been carried out by SINTEF Unimed on behalf of the Ministry. The new reimbursement basis will have the effect that the ISF scheme will reflect more fully the actual costs of patient treatment and is currently the best estimate we have of the costs of different treatments. This is a direct follow-up of what is announced The Storting in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Some of the rates representing the major heart operations have, after this review, been significantly reduced in cost weights. This will in turn have consequences for specialised hospitals that carry out this type of operation and receive only part-priced income from regional health enterprises based on the same payment basis as the input-driven financing of public regional health enterprises. This applies, for example: Celebrating clinic and the Heart Centre, which provide a significant part of heart treatment in Norway. The reduction is largely linked to some of the rates for the major heart operations. Reimbursements for angiographic studies show relatively little change. The changes in the ISF system will lead to a significant loss of income for the Celebrating Clinic and Heart Centre if they use the same reimbursement rates through the DRG system as in 2001. On this basis, I have established a fast-working group of representatives from the Department, Health East, Health South, the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Centre in Oslo. As an introduction to this work, the Ministry of Health met with representatives of the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Centre last Friday, where a review of the situation of the institutions was carried out and discussed how the work was to be undertaken. The Group shall review the issue within a period of 2 to 4 weeks. The objective is to identify unintended effects of the conversion and, together with other major users, to propose any measures. I will follow up the case on the basis of the clear intention that the offer to this patient group should be secured, and with continued use of the Celebrating Clinic and Heart Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1580	It's very good to hear what the Health Minister now says, that there is a review of the fares for these two centers: the Heart Centre and the Celebrating Clinic. But I still have to say that I was very startled and very surprised that these bets could be reduced as much as I have seen in tables related to the bets. How it could happen to me is almost a mystery. Many with me feared that the actual treatment offered to these patients could be at risk. And when these two clinics represent such a large part of at least adult heart surgery, I think there was cause for concern. Will the Minister of Health, through the work he himself mentioned, ensure that the new rates contain an actual cost coverage? Then I appeal to the Minister of Health to make sure that it does, because I assume that there are more technical calculations that have made one come out like one did in the first draft of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1587	The objective of the review is that the rates should reflect the actual costs of patient treatment in a better way than they have done in the past. It is a goal that I know the Storting has also been concerned about. Then we are faced with some of the results in relation to special hospitals, which are financed only on the basis of price reductions through agreements with regional health companies. We're willing to solve that problem. I don't want to sketch what that solution is going to look like today. That's what this fast-working group where they're in is going to find out. However, I repeat the clear objective which is for this work and the assumption on my part, namely that the offer to this patient group should be ensured, among other things. with continued use of the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1594	There is reason to believe that these two centres have a very high quality of the offer they provide to patients, and that their effectiveness is good, as they can carry out their activities as planned and – I assume – without interference from outside factors. I believe that the Norwegian health service needs this offer both in terms of quality and perhaps also as a small pattern for the operation that we are going to have in our other hospitals, public and private. Then I want to add a moment, and it is now time that the Heart Centre clarified its relationship with its health region, so that investments and operations can be planned and ensured in the longer term. Based on the fact that you actually came to the conclusion that you're almost three months out in the new year, and there's still no clarification on the rates, I'm going to ask the Minister of Health if he thinks that the quality of these clinics is such that this is something we're going to bet on in the future, and that these clinics are part of the plans for the future treatment of heart patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1601	It is in the answer I have already given that I confirm that this is my position. The experience and insight I have in the business both at the Heart Centre and at the Celebrating Clinic is such that I believe it is good coverage for the characteristic representative Kristoffersen now gave of these services. This is why my first aim is to ensure that the offer to this patient group is made, and secondly that we should ensure it through the use of the Heart Centre and the Celebrating Clinic. We are also working on the issue related to the Heart Centre, which is linked to the health business system, which was not resolved in connection with the hospital reform itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1610	I allow myself to ask a question to the Council of State: «The acquisition by the Member States of, inter alia, Hospitals involve the organisation and management through a health business model in order to ensure a clear responsibility and better health provision for the population. It is appointed to govern both health enterprises and the five regional health establishments. The corporate law does not require closed board meetings, but unfortunately it seems that most of the boards are closed to the public. Is the Government planning to change the practice of closed board meetings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1619	Public health services shall be provided with transparency in relation to their environment. Therefore, the disclosure law is applicable to undertakings. The Public Service Act provides for a number of transparency but does not include a public service obligation. This means that, to the extent that the Boards of Directors have been given the opportunity to exercise discretion in this area. Regional health enterprises have chosen different practices with regard to meeting publicity, while all are active in informing about their work. It provides a good basis for gaining experience both with open and closed meetings. The role of the enterprise model is to implement the health policy decided upon in the national democratic bodies, with the Stortinget as their top. Their implementation with loyalty and power is also an important democratic element. It is important that the new business model should be able to operate under stable organisational framework conditions. So I don't think it's right to go in and impose a public meeting on the board, but I want to follow the experience of the different models chosen in the different regions. I am also concerned that enterprises are active in information activities and that they are finding good forms of contact with regional and local authorities. In addition, enterprises shall set up user selections to ensure a good dialogue with the different user groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1626	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In my opinion, the boards of hospital companies manage large resources on behalf of all of us, and people are to be trusted in the disposals and the proposals for improvements to our health care, require this, among other things. that most people have to be able to follow. And politicians at different levels need to have knowledge and plans for decisions in order to make recordings. In particular, democratic rules require transparency of decisions, so in sum this implies that business meetings should be open. I am aware that the Business Act is neutral, but I would nevertheless like to ask the Council of State: does he intend to use his governance instructions to health companies and through it require open meetings? I record that he said he would not impose it on the board now, but could he consider, through the management directive, to require open meetings?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1635	Let me say that I fully agree with the representative of Brørby that trust between the population and health businesses and health care is essential. I also agree that most people have to be able to follow, and that there has to be transparency about the decisions. However, I do not agree that it must mean that open meetings are the only solution that meets such intentions. We have to take into account that those elected to the Boards of Health Companies are not elected on the basis of party political colour, not on the basis of geographical location and not because they represent specific interests, if one then disregards the employee representatives, but on the basis of personal suitability. Making meetings open without further ado can lead to these bodies becoming more like political bodies, and that may be unfortunate. I'm not sure at all that it has to happen, and that's why I want to follow the experience carefully where you've chosen open meetings, to see if it can actually work properly. So the answer is that I do not intend to use any instruction authority with the companies on this point. I want to follow the experiences of the different companies based on the different models they have chosen – some have chosen open and other closed meetings – and I will perhaps come back to the matter when those experiences are on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1640	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to follow closely. However, I would like to ask one last supplementary question and ask the Council of State to dwell on the following: What about the management of the companies that would require the meetings to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1645	I believe that anyone who has experience of activities in political bodies in the state, municipality or state knows that the processes will be different if the meetings are open or closed. It doesn't necessarily mean they get worse if they get open, but they get different. I am without further ado that for bodies with party political composition, it is natural that there are open meetings because it is part of the party political debate. The board of directors are no longer composed on that basis, and it suggests that one can quickly drag these boards into political processes that they are not complex in relation to, and then they will be something other than what they were going to become on the basis of the reform. But, as I said, let's evaluate the different experiences with the two different models, and then decide when the experiences are better documented than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1655	Now we go to questions 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1661	This question, from the representative Karin Galaaen of the Minister of Labour and Administration, will be raised by the representative Morten Lund and will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1664	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘There is reason to believe that the conflict with the Nursing Association could have been resolved smoothly if the Government had promised equal compensation in all state hospitals from the spring pay settlement. Is the strong position of NATO that the Government wants local negotiations and increased pay differentials for an increasing number of professional groups?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1673	It is the social partners, in this context the employers' association NATO and the Norwegian Nursing Association, who are responsible for implementing the forthcoming wage settlement. The Health Business Act provides a framework for governance to take place, and it is important that both Government and Health Councils in their governance respect the structure adopted by the Stortinge. Within this model, wage formation and wage developments are expected to be in line with the health and income policy objectives drawn up by the general government. The directors of the undertakings are fully responsible. I will not rule out that there may be a greater degree of local wage formation over time than you currently have, in relation to the specific needs of the specialist health service. However, it is the boards of directors who, through the elected employers’ association, have the overall responsibility for ensuring that the measures taken by enterprises in the pay and staff sectors are consistent with the objectives and frameworks of both health policy and income policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1682	If what NATO has done in this matter is in line with what is politically wanted from the Government, then it is negative for our health services. The nurses experienced it as a no line. That line led to great bitterness. And increased bitterness among such a large group within our healthcare system is not for the benefit of patients or the public health system. Health services will gradually be provided by non-public health services. I feel pretty sure of that. We need more nurses and more satisfied nurses at the nurse's bed, and permanent employees at public health establishments. I believe that the demands of the nurses to have a collective collective collective agreement for all public hospitals, when they are now owned by the state, are a fair claim. You won't be able to eliminate the huge pay gap that is now between those who were employed in the state and all those who have recently been employed in the state. I would like to ask whether political initiatives will be taken to meet the fair demands of nurses and to remove this bitterness and unfortunate situation as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1694	I believe that the representative Morten Lund has a far too dire prognosis for the development of Norwegian healthcare. At the same time, I fully agree with him that public health care depends on having well-motivated and competent staff, and it depends on pursuing a policy at all levels that involves both recruiting and retaining skilled, competent and motivated employees. Having said that, I would like to say no to the invitation from the representative Lund to go in and take the lead in spring's payroll here in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1701	I thank you for your answer. I think it was a pity with such a rejection. In fact, I think this is what we need to turn around, at least if there's still a majority in the Grand Duchy in order for us to have a good public health system, and not just a good health system. I think it's very damaging for patients if we get a long-term paycheck. It is the public health service that will lose weight on it, because recruitment to public health services will lose. The nurses have, among other things: said that they would rather go to the private offers and take the jobs there, or apply for involvement in temporary employment agencies. It's getting more expensive, it's getting worse health care -- there's no doubt about it. The nurses have been committed to solidarity. No one, no matter where in the country they live, wants fifty different collective agreements, which for some of them would have made greater progress in terms of wages. They want to be in bed, hand in hand. If NATO's line is going to be the one leading forward, have you been told by the Government what will be the effect on the health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1710	I just want to briefly confirm that it is my opinion that the Government has broad support in the Storting to have a strong public health service in this country. It is the national health policy, and it is the national health policy objectives that both health businesses and the Minister for Health have to deal with. In addition to that, I do not now want to go into a discussion about what has been or what is going on about the relationship between the parties to the tariff settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1718	This question, from the representative Eirin Fallet to the Minister for Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Health who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1721	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The size has decided that people can choose freely. Many of the inhabitants of Tolga Municipality have chosen a permanent resident in the neighbouring municipality. When they turn to their local social security office for reimbursement of cloud expenses to their permanent staff, they are only refunded from their place of residence to the local social security office, which in this example is Tolga Social Security Office. Is this a correct interpretation of the provisions for cloud compensation to be determined?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1730	According to paragraphs 5 to 16 of the Swedish Social Security Act, people's rights cover the necessary travel expenses when a member has to travel for medical examination or treatment. As a general rule, public health cover only travel expenses to the nearest place can be provided. In the case of travel to their own country of residence, this general rule has been waived in Regulation of 11 March 1997 No. 211 on compensation for travel expenses for examination and treatment. It follows from § 2, paragraph 2 of the regulation. 1 that the member may be paid compensation for travelling to his or her permanent resident in the municipality, where appropriate in the cooperating municipality. If two or more municipalities have entered into formalised cooperation on the implementation of the permanent medical scheme, the residents are free to choose the permanent staff who have a place of residence in one of the cooperating municipalities. The patient will then be refunded the travel expenses to the permanent resident in another municipality. If a patient chooses to settle in another municipality in situations where there is no fixed cooperation between the municipalities, the coverage of travel expenses is limited to the nearest doctor in relation to the patient’s place of residence. I have been confirmed by the municipality of Tolga that they have not entered into formalised cooperation with the respective neighbouring municipalities on the fixed medical scheme. It means, in practice, that residents of the municipality will be covered by travel expenses to the nearest doctor in relation to the patient’s residence if they choose permanent residence in another municipality, unless Tolga Municipality chooses to enter into formalised cooperation with one or more of its neighbouring municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1743	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a clarifying answer. I can tell the Council of States here and now that the rapporteur in Tolga of course wants to do the very best for his citizens. When the reason for the failure of the Tolga residents to reimburse their own elected permanent resident in the neighbouring municipality is due to a formality, I can predict that the rapporteur will deal with this. But the rapporteur in Tolga is a very up-to-date lady, so I wonder: How has the department informed all municipalities that formalised cooperation between municipalities is required for patients to be refunded skyscraping costs to their settler in the neighbouring municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1750	I have no reason to doubt the character of the rapporteur in Tolga. The reaction clearly expressed by the rapporteur simply confirms that. I can answer the question that, in the context of the implementation of the permanent medical system, there was a comprehensive information activity to the municipalities about all the elements of the fixed medical system for the municipalities, including this. This, of course, cannot prevent any house from passing by. But the possibilities are there. If you find that you want to enter into such formalized cooperation, there's nothing to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1757	The majority has said, as the Council of State has also pointed out, that people will have to choose the decision they themselves want. I am pleased that the reimbursement of transport costs is then followed up, because, as the Council of State is well-known, it is not possible to use public transport in large parts of Hedmark, and then it is clear that it is contracted transport that applies. I repeat that this problem will now certainly solve itself for the north-east valley. I can also say that inter-communal cooperation is very good, so this will probably be dealt with by the rapporteur and the political elected representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1764	We go back to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1777	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1783	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The moving real-life ‘Science Circus’ programme has been on the road for five years. They offer real-time vocational courses to teachers. In addition, they conduct education and demonstrations for pupils both in primary and secondary schools. The poor recruitment of the real subjects is a cause of concern. ‘Science Circus’ has an exciting approach to the real subjects and has been a popular response. The economy is now likely to have to stop the business. Will the State Council take initiatives to ensure the continued operation of the programme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1792	The learning centre has in its letter of assignment, inter alia: has been given the task of ‘supporting ‘school technology’, centres of science and other relevant actions aimed at strengthening the real-life sciences’. ‘Science Circus’ is such a measure, and, after learning, received support from the Learning Centre in 2001. It is the task of the Learning Centre to assess, within its budgetary framework, whether this action is to be supported in the current year on the basis of the overall assessment to be made by the Learning Centre. However, I would also like to remind you that the local authority sector has a separate responsibility for developing the skills of teachers, so that individual school owners will also be able to support actions such as ‘Science Circus’ for use in the development of skills and as educational support. Let me also say that both in advance of my time and in my time it has been done and done a lot to strengthen mathematics and the real subjects. The learning centre is working on a strategy plan to strengthen mathematics training. We want to strengthen teacher training in this area. We focus more on continuing training of teachers. I have taken the initiative to set up a national centre for mathematics in the NTNU training this year, and I think the quality committee should assess the mathematics training, both its quality and its scope, in primary and secondary education. We also support other measures, such as: girls and real-life subjects, the Minerva project. I mention this because there are many measures. Nevertheless, we have to note that real-life training has been very fragmented and has not had a satisfactory effect. That means we have a big challenge. I now put up a more comprehensive effort on mathematics in primary and higher education, and in that context in the near future I will invite you to a technical seminar on just this. I guess «Science Circus» is one of the programs that has certainly gained very valuable experience, from which we can benefit, and that they can contribute with views and dissemination of experience. I also have to add that increasing interest in and competence in mathematics is a prerequisite for better recruitment to the natural sciences in general. In line with this, I will now also bet on developing a strategy for investing in the natural sciences. It is necessary to bring forward an overall commitment in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1805	I thank you for your answer. I might have expected a slightly more positive approach to this concrete project. It is true that they received support in 2001. The new and special thing this year is that there has been a reorganization from 1 January this year, where Teknoteket has joined the Norwegian Technical Museum, which was part of Teknoteket in the past. So now the Teknoteket and the Norwegian Technical Museum have joined forces, and they can no longer take responsibility for this special program. It's made them come up in a special situation this year, and that's what's behind my question. The organisational change should have led the state to be willing to go in and look at this. This is about relatively small funds. They have good experiences. They have a course for 1,500 teachers per year. years, and they have had approx. 20 000 pupils who meet with their special approach to the real subjects. They have, as I said, good experience. Although we have big plans, I think it is important that we take care of what works well. That is why I have a call to the Council of State to look at it, to assess it and, if necessary, to go in with support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1814	Let me just clarify: I'm not negative. On the contrary, I am very positive about this type of action. I just meant to note that we have delegated both great resources and powers to the Learning Centre, which is an underlying establishment in the state, and I expect that this year, as they did last year, they are able to assess this. I'm sure the Learning Center will also be familiar with the dialogue we now have here, but I'm also happy to make it known and to check to what extent this has been dealt with in the Learning Centre in 2002. However, there has certainly been a broad consensus that these types of tasks can be delegated within the education administration, and, as I said, large funds are also delegated to the Learning Centre. I can check how the matter stands, but for that reason I will not promise that I will take it out of the hands of the Learning Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1821	I thank you for the slightly more positive approach, and I'm happy for it. The Council of State has previously been concerned with the real subjects and the place of the real subjects in school, and that they are weakened. She'll have praise for that, and I agree with her that she puts it in focus. But then we can't toe our hands and say that part of this is the responsibility of the Learning Centre, and then they can assess it. This is part of the overall setup to strengthen the real subjects. Although the Learning Centre is responsible for distributing money, I ask the Council of State to make direct contact with a view to doing something and securing this project, because I am absolutely convinced that this works very well. It's exciting. I was about to say that it's a little bit of the old, what we grew up with on TV, about physics in the root room, which was clearly important to stimulate children and young people to become interested in real science. They're based on some of the same idea, which it's important to take care of and develop. I still want to ask her, even though the Council of State was more positive later on, to make contact with the intention that this could be further driven.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1831	I'll make sure I do that. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Reikvam, that we must look at this as a whole. And the Learning Center is not beyond the state, but part of the state. The striking thing for me has been that it is implemented and supported by a number of actions in the field of real science, mathematics, and yet no particular effect can be demonstrated by it. That's why I said in my first answer that it's important now that we not only get an overview of everything we do, but that we ask ourselves, is there a good connection in this, and what could be the reason why this doesn't work? Is it possible to take a more comprehensive approach to this in order to have an impact on the recruitment and interest in the real subjects? This is what we are inviting for a dialogue on in the near future. There will be a dialogue about the status and position of these subjects, and the extent to which they arouse interest, and the quality of them throughout the training system, from primary school to even research. I think action needs to be put in place throughout that chain to get the effect we're looking for and that we need in a high-tech, modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1844	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘On behalf of the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, the Central Statistical Agency carried out a survey of the competence of primary school teachers in the various fields of education in 1999-2000. There were some serious defects. Continuously, at least one in five teachers in the upper secondary school were lacking in the subject in which they teach. Less than half of them had similar basic education at this age at primary school. What will the State Council do to monitor the results in the short and long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1853	In order to be able to teach in primary school, approved teacher training is required. Training as a general teacher has a wide range of professional skills and, following today's regulations of competence, teachers can teach at all stages. Questionnaires conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau in 1999 and 2000 showed that 96 pst. Of the 6,286 teachers asked, they said they had approved education. However, the study also showed that many teachers, both in childhood and youth, have few or no weights in the subjects in which they teach. It is the responsibility of the school owner that the teachers at each school have a competence to meet their needs. Nevertheless, I see this as worrying, and have put in place actions related to central schooling. Among other things, I have universities and colleges entrusted with the development of online continuing education offers in mathematics, Norwegian with emphasis on reading and writing, English, German and French. The provision of continuing training shall be flexible and open so that they can also act as follow-up training. The development of teachers' skills is an important field of action. More than ever, the school needs motivated teachers with professional and educational qualities. Continuing education is primarily the responsibility of the school owner, but in order to achieve important educational policy objectives, the country has allocated approximately 50 %. 260 million. to various skills development measures aimed at teachers and school leaders in 2002. In order to enhance the professional competence of teachers, I will also propose significant changes in general teacher training in the notified teacher notification. Students will have greater opportunities for choices and professional immersion. Overall, this action will strengthen the competence of primary school teachers in the short and longer term. Some of them will take time, but the goal must be that teachers have good background and knowledge in the subjects in which they teach. In this respect, I allow myself to refer to the Sem statement, where it is said that it is a goal that you have 20 weights in order to be able to teach the subjects in which you are going to teach.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1868	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think she has actually started a work to improve this. But now it is a fact that there are just the choices that teachers have been given, which means that general teacher education has been diluted. They have been deleted, for example. scientific mathematics, which reflects that 27.1 pst. by the teachers in mathematics actually can't do the subject, while 20,1 pst. by English teachers. When the options were to weaken the basis for our children to receive sensible training again, I had hoped that the Council of State would have thought anything other than free choice. The question is, has she put any criteria for governing the elections in these important subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1877	It is true, as the representative Evje says, that very many teachers in practice lack sufficient or the desired immersion in the subject in which they teach. To take a couple of examples, about half of those who teach in the second foreign language have zero weights in the subject. 50 pst. of those who teach mathematics at kindergarten, have zero weights in the subject. 25 pst of those who teach mathematics at the youth level have zero weights in the subject – yes, they may only have a basic course of secondary education, while they later teach at the youth level. The new teacher training has not yet been announced, but there has been so much public debate about it that I can well say what will become the main elements there. We're going to add up to fewer compulsory subjects, but Norwegian and mathematics and this with initial training in Norwegian reading and writing and mathematics will become essential mandatory elements. Then we want greater freedom of choice, but it has to be accompanied by a greater requirement for immersion in both the subject and the step you are taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1886	I thank the Council of State for that answer, and I am starting to get more calm. Finally, I would just like to refer to the study to be carried out by the Ministry of Statistics and the fact that the state's education offices in the counties have a supervisory responsibility both in terms of the quality and development of the schools and in terms of the learning potential in the schools in relation to the student. Have they not done their job since it has been necessary to put someone else to investigate the relationship, like this SSB study?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1893	I have no reason to say that they are not doing their job, but it will certainly always be claimed that you could do more. In the long term, I think it will be important and important, especially since we are going to delegate more to the local level, to strengthen the supervisory task. But it's true that the knowledge here has not been sufficient. In a few days we will also learn more about the background of those teachers who are unskilled at school. We don't know much about that either. It could be anything from a really lack of skills and experience background to a really well-trained person – it's just that you don't have a teacher's education. We need to know about this, because only then can we put in the right measures. I think, among other things, that it can be easier than we think to increase the skills of so-called unskilled students in school, because they can already have an interesting background in many cases on which to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1904	I also have a question to the same minister: ‘Early in the 2001 election campaign, there was a renewed focus on the great need for upgrading school buildings. Very many of the country’s schools are in poor condition and students are offered a working environment which, in a similar working situation for adults, would lead to the use of daily fines and notices of closure from local employment services. The previous government added 15 billion. kr in loans to the municipalities of the country in order to carry out the necessary upgrading, which was continued by this government. What is the status?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1913	The scheme of State extra funding for school facilities was adopted at Stortinget in the autumn. In December last year, the department sent out a circular to all municipalities and counties with copies to the State Education Office, the Municipal Councils and the county councillors. The circular provides information on the objectives of the scheme, the conditions for allocation and how the municipalities and county councils can apply for the funds. The scheme includes projects completed after 1 January 2002. The attached circular was also a preliminary breakdown of the loan framework between municipalities and county councils. The Ministry is now working on formalising the scheme through regulations, guidelines and application forms. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, will draw up regulations for the scheme. The regulation shall be sent at the hearing to municipalities and county councils with the first. The House Bank will manage the scheme, and the main board of the House Bank will develop guidelines and procedures for the scheme, and send them to municipalities and county councils during the first half of 2002. The Ministry has received a number of enquiries from municipalities that are ready to apply for its loan framework in 2002. As the application form and guidelines for the scheme have not been sent to municipalities and counties, the Ministry has yet to have an overview of how many will apply to withdraw its loan framework in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1920	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is late. Although there is an opportunity to apply for projects launched from 1 January 2002, it is true that many municipalities will of course refuse to wait until they know whether or not to borrow money under special conditions. Too many schools in Norway are characterised by extensive building decay. I have children in primary school myself, so I know a good deal about the problem. Parents wonder how this extensive decay of buildings and indoor climates has been able to build up over many years, when we know that the State Education Office is responsible for Norwegian School?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1925	I can understand the representative of Sortevik's statement that this might be late. When I entered the department, I had to note that no special work had been done on the criteria for the scheme, etc. At the same time, it was clear in public space that the scheme would preferably apply from 1 January 2002. I then saw it as very important that it actually happened, because otherwise one would experience the kind of adaptations that the representative Sortevik has to offer, namely that one would expect repairs and construction that are badly needed. I then informed that the scheme would apply from 1 January 2002, and so it does. So you could say that it might still be late for hearings and drawing up regulations and guidelines. But it goes at that – let me say – the usual pace as it does in the state, with the deadlines that apply. And I think maybe the representative Blackevik and I agree that there might be some simplification here, but then it's more on a general basis than especially for this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1932	The respondent fully agrees that there may be some simplification. Thus, we have a good experience base with a similar support scheme through the action plan for the care of the elderly, where such a system has been created, and it may be possible to use it in an analogue way far more than what is now provided for. But I have an additional question: the scheme on which the government has invested is a loan arrangement. The budgetary work pointed to two factors that need clarification: the establishment of a loan scheme that can also benefit poor municipalities, because not all municipalities have an economy which makes it clear that they can assume a large debt liability and that the accounting rules for municipalities must or should be adjusted in order to actually benefit from the provision of a discharge that has been included in this large loan package. Are these matters clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1939	As I said, a circular, with which the representative of Sortevik is probably familiar, dated 13 December 2001, has expired, and we will now continue to work on the procedures and guidelines I have been working on. That means that absolutely not all relationships are settled. We are discussing today, among other things: criteria related to access for disabled persons, etc. Let me just say that I fully agree with the representative of Sortevik that the scheme is not perfect. Such schemes also have weaknesses. One might also say, if I can be so free, that it has weaknesses in the opposite way of the representative of Sortevik, because this is of course a form of reward, one might say, until the municipalities that so far have not prioritised school building, while the municipalities that have been good and have prioritised school building do not benefit equally from the scheme. This is what I would call a type of system error that often tends to emerge in the public sector, and that we probably have a common responsibility to minimize as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1949	I have the following questions for the same minister: ‘Proposals for a framework agreement between universities and health establishments indicate that provision is to be made for adequate resources within the budget adopted to conduct practical studies by health establishments. In the course of medical training, the health enterprise is allocated NOK 900 per year. hour. In nursing training, DKK 3.40 per year is spent. hour. What does the Council of State intend to do to correct this bias?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1958	When comparing nurse training and medical training, as the representative Rui here does, it is important to be aware of a historical difference between education and training. Medical training has always been the responsibility of the State. Nursing was first transferred from the county to the state higher education system in the mid-1980s. It was then decided that the transfer of health schools should not lead to an economic redistribution between the county and the state, but that the means of practical instruction should remain within the county municipalities' framework, provided that hospitals could be used as practical sites as before. In addition, it can be mentioned that through higher education, increased resources have been allocated to practices related to the introduction of a new framework plan for the nursing study. These funds use the higher education institutions for quality improvement measures in practical education. The contribution to the practical part of medical training is organised in a different way by providing cost coverage to hospitals via a separate component of the regional hospital allowance. This is the historical background, which is part of explaining the big difference the representative Rui refers to. Based on the transfer of responsibility for hospitals to the country, it is natural to consider issues related to the practical guidance. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health is in the process of setting up an internal working group to look at the framework conditions for the practical part of health training. Of course, the working group will need to assess both economic and organisational conditions in order to create a good framework for practice in these training courses. I would also like to refer to the investigation of hospital financing that the Ministry of Health has now started. One of the issues to be addressed by the sample is the financing of training of health professionals in hospitals. I can assure you that the Department has a high level of attention on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1969	We have seen that several other hospitals also say that they are unable to accept nurses. The same thing happens in Westfold. You say that you do not have the opportunity to do it for free in a busy day. And I ask, now that you have started the work that the Council of State was working on, have you set a deadline, so that you can say when this will gradually get better?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1974	This is internal work, and just as I'm standing here, I can't quite remember what time I've given our internal people in the departments. But it's clear that this is a work that's highly priority, because we know that some places are problems, and that you feel it's a strain. We are also aware that several hospitals require payment to make practical places available. This has been thought by the department to be fundamentally wrong. But we're now in a situation where the hospitals are transferred to the state, and it's natural that we look at this again. I can assure you that both the Minister of Health and I are, of course, very concerned that these training courses are good, that the practice is also good, and that we are doing so in a flexible way together with the partners we must and will cooperate with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1981	It's also another side of the same case. As far as I know, the Health Care Act says that the guidance nurses who bring students with them are actually legally responsible for any mistakes that the students make. In this sense, it may be understandable that the nurses refuse to take a student on a daily journey, if one in addition is to be put to trial for something that someone else has done. In the same context, can the Council of State also consider addressing that issue, so as to deal with practice and quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1986	This is a little outside of what the question was originally about, so I have to admit that I have to go into it more closely before I can give a final answer. I don't want anything against looking at any part of any education in and separately as long as I have this assignment, so I'm taking the question with me. But I'm not ready to say anything final about it here and now, because it's relatively far from the original question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e1991	Questions 18 to 22 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2004	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Questions 24 and 25 have already been dealt with, and we have come to question 26, from the representative Sandberg. The President cannot see that the representative Sandberg is present in the Chamber. Question 5, by the representative of Øyvind Korsberg, should have been raised on question 26, but the President cannot see that the representative of Korsberg is also present in the Chamber, and we move on to question 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2015	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Professor Brit Salbu at Norway’s high school of agriculture tells the newspaper Nordlys on 5 March 2002 that they have now measured the radiation of technetium-99 in seaweed produced on the Norwegian coast, which is twice as high as the EU action limit for children. How will the Government deal with these new observational measurements?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2024	Annually it is harvested in Norway approx. 20 000 tonnes of seaweed and approx. 160,000 tonnes of seaweed. Tang meal is used for food production, including: as food supplements and for the production of animal feed and fertilisers. Seas are used for the food and medical industries in the form of alginates. The EU action limit for radioactivity in food, to which it refers, has been developed for measures related to the consumption of food following an atomic accident. Strictly speaking, the action limit does not apply to verified emissions, such as technetium from Sellafield, paradoxically enough. The action limit applies to ‘food ready to eat’ – ‘food ready for consumption’. In general, the action level for technetium-99 is 1 250 Bq per. kg food. The maximum content of technetium in baby foods is 400 Bq per day. kg, because radiation is most harmful to children. This limit applies to foods labelled for use in children up to six months of age. Samples of seaweed meal from the store taken by Staten Radiation Protection in 2000 and 2001 range from 430 Bq per. kg to 460 Bq per day. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg. However, one must be clearly aware that seaweed is not ready to be eaten and labelled for use in children up to six months of age. The information provided by Professor Brit Salbu of the Higher School of Agriculture is for vesicular echinoderms from Hillesøy in Troms. The maximum level measured in an incremental sample is 810 Bq per. kg dry weight. This is more than twice as much as the EU action limit for baby food, and the measurements were recorded in November 1999. The average for the period from February 1999 to April 2000 was between 300 and 400 Bq per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, In the context of the national monitoring programme for marine radioactivity, coordinated by Staten Radiation Protection, seaweed samples from 12 fixed stations are measured distributed along the Norwegian coast. The highest values for 1999 and 2000 were 510 Bq per person, respectively. kg and 621 Bq per. kg in samples taken at Utsira. Levels vary with seasons and between sampling stations. Seaweeds are harvested annually in quantities far greater than seaweed and have a correspondingly greater economic importance. The annual harvest is approx. 160000 tonnes larger than the primary product of alginate production, making Norway a major producer in the international context. The values of technetium-99 measured in seaweed are a reminder of the importance of stopping further emissions of technetium to the sea. The government will continue its efforts to halt emissions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2045	First, I would like to congratulate the Minister for the Environment on the impact that has now been achieved in relation to the concessions made by BNFL in the United Kingdom, by the Sellafield plant, which is now no longer discussing whether this is dangerous or not. I would like to see this as a major breakthrough for both the political and the public pressure in this. I don't think I got such a very concrete answer to the question of how to deal with these alarming measurements, except that you still want to keep a steady pressure to stop these emissions. My follow-up question will be: Has the Minister received an answer to his request in a letter of 21 December 2001 to the UK Minister for the Environment for a moratorium on further emissions until the cleaning of technetium has been fully tested? I believe that a discharge moratorium will be the best guarantee of credibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2054	I fully agree with the representative Swensen that it is very positive that the owners of the Sellafield plant now want to clean the radioactive waste and not use the sea as a storage space or landfill. The problem now is that the UK authorities, in fact both health authorities and environmental authorities, are sceptical about storing this waste on land, because it can have too much health implications, it may need to go down in groundwater. It is a great paradox for me that discharges as they feel it is completely harmless to get into the sea are of such a nature that they themselves will not save it on land. It shows the hollowness of the British reasoning here. In relation to what was said that I should allegedly not be clear enough in my response to the seriousness of the technetium-99 content, the becquerel degree in seaweed, I will reject it. Those who have been following this process since last autumn have probably come to realize that not least this government has put a real strain on this matter, and perhaps it is also the breakthrough in relation to BNFL as a result of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2061	No, I am fully in line with the Minister of Environmental Protection in the job that the Government has done to put pressure on getting an impact on this case. I am fully satisfied with that and will commend the Minister for the environmental protection for the efforts that are being made. I hope you still put further pressure on me to stop this, because the goal must be to get a zero emission of technetium-99. Like the Minister for the Environment, the Coastal Party believes that the signals from the BNFL regarding the reduction and cessation of emissions must be interpreted with the greatest degree of scepticism and uncertainty in relation to the UK Government. My request will be to maintain a massive zero-emission pressure as a target.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2068	First, I will give the honor to the representative Swensen to address this matter. He is quite right that the examples he brings now, as mentioned by Professor Salbu, of the becquerel content of seaweed, show why this is not least important for Norwegian authorities. We can't have a situation where one of us important export industries has a huge problem in terms of radioactivity. With regard to the previous question, which I was not able to answer, about what has happened to the letter I sent to the British Environment Minister, Margaret Backet, I got an answer to that in the new year, where she says that the new arguments on land cleaning and storage should also be included in the further work. I had of course hoped that she had announced that this was a solution that the British authorities could also go for if the owners of Sellafield wanted to clean and store. Michael Mitcher, the other British Environment Minister, under Baket, comes to Norway through the North Sea Conference to the week. I have written a letter to him in advance of it. I want to re-examine this situation with him in a bilateral meeting that we're likely to have on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2077	We're going back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2084	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2087	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Today, the ‘State Council of Lemkuhl’, ‘Christian Radich’ and ‘Southern country’ are granted State aid. In North Norway you have one sailer, «Anna Rogde». The Anna Rogde Foundation no longer manages to maintain and maintain this launch without public financial support. What will the Council of State do to preserve ‘Anna Rogde’ as a good and well-off ambassador for North Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2096	‘Anna Rogde’ is an important protective vessel. The vessel was among the vessels that entered under the cultural memory protection support schemes at an early stage. The ship was given a high priority and received a total of 1,6 million grants. kr. This made up a large proportion of the overall ship protection budget. The three ‘State Council Lemkuhl’, ‘Christian Radich’ and ‘Southern Country’ sailing sluts to which the query refers receive a fixed operating aid from the State budget. This has its background in the former class of sailing ships. They therefore have a different type of economy from that of the protection vessels for which the Riksantikvaren is responsible. However, they are not subject to such strong antiquarian requirements. Therefore, the comparison with these sails is not immediately transferable to ‘Anna Rogde’. It is very positive that there is an interest in protecting our ships. However, the maintenance of protective vessels is very resource-intensive. It is therefore necessary for the protection authorities to exercise strict prioritisation of available resources, and this can often be perceived as frustrating for those working in the protection of ships. There is a great and invaluable work done by private owners in this context. The Riksantikvaren has now revised its ship protection action plan. The plan states that there are 175 protective vessels in this country. It is granted annually approx. Twenty million. kr for ship protection above the State budget, but the application volume is three to four times higher. The budget item is one of the largest items in the budget of the Riksantikvaren and shows that the protection of vessels is a priority area. In spite of this, strict prioritisation of the funds is necessary. This implies that the challenge of the protection of ‘Anna Rogde’ must be solved within the ordinary budget of the Riksantikvaren. The implementation of special measures or re-priorities for the benefit of individual vessels will result in the depriving of other valuable vessels. I know that this answer does not solve the problem that the representative of Korsberg has raised, but I can promise that I will work to ensure that ships and coastal culture continue to have a high priority in the work of the Ministry of the Environment. I hope that in the long term this will also provide a good solution for ‘Anna Rogde’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2109	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Although the answer was not directly positive for ‘Anna Rogde’, there is still some hope that ‘Anna Rogde’ may be allocated some public funds. I agree with the Council of State that this issue of ship protection is a neglected area, which should perhaps be stepped up in the future, and we in the Progress Party will at least make a very strong contribution there. What's a little interesting is that today there are three sailors who get public support based on their former schoolship status, and then it's amazing that no other sailors can come under the same support scheme. Is it possible for the State Councils here to see the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture, which is funding the three other sailors, in the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2114	As I said at the outset, the three sailors, who are also former school ships, do not have the same antique protection as the other ships, and then fall under another budget line. I think the most realistic thing, if you want to give more ships an opportunity to get a public contribution, is possibly to increase the Riksantikvaren pot to ship protection, which is 20 million. kr. But as I said, 175 protective vessels are fighting for these 20 million. kr, and therefore ‘Anna Rogde’, as far as I understand, has only received a contribution of 1,6 million. kr so far. To keep this ship up to date and also to have money for material, refurbishment and maintenance, you need more. This is an important annual discussion and post in connection with the state budget, and I think the most realistic thing is to look at the sum that goes to the Riksantik product at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2119	What has become the problem for the ‘Anna Rogde’ and the foundation is the daily operation, which is not allowed to go around anymore. Since the Council of State was about to increase the pot for the protection of these 175 vessels, it is tempting to ask the Council of State whether he will take it into account in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2124	As I said, this entry on the Riksantikvaren budget, ship protection, is already one of the very largest, 20 million. kr, but I register that the representative of Korsberg invites the Government in relation to increasing this post. I'm taking that into account in the further budget work. However, I myself from Stortinget worked for the protection of ships, not least this is an item that is discussed annually in the Financial Committee in connection with the financial position, and there is an incredibly large amount of positive work going on with these vessels around the country. I think that the State has a responsibility to encourage and preserve an important cultural memory like this, so if it is that the Ministry of the Environment should get more money for that type of project through a total assessment in the Government, this is also high on my wish list.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2129	We're going to go to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2135	This question, from the Per Sandberg representative to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2138	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «The pressure on the housing market in Oslo is increasing, both in price and demand. The owners of Taraldrud property, located in the Ski municipality, just 15 km from Oslo, have long wanted a private control plan for residential and industrial purposes. In the absence of housing in Oslo, the property would take a large part of the pressure that Oslo is now experiencing, in the event of a change of regulation. What can the Council of State do to enable owners to understand their wishes for a comprehensive regulatory plan for the property?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2147	I would first like to stress that it is Ski Municipality that is responsible for the planning of the area in the municipality. The issue of the development of the Taraldrud property for residential and industrial purposes has not been addressed by the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry has therefore obtained further information from the municipality on this matter. As we have also discussed earlier here in this Chamber, we have a considerable sense of local democracy. This is now in the municipality for decision, but because the question is asked, and we both stand here, I can explain what the municipality says about the matter, and how they intend to deal with it. The area concerned is indicated as an agricultural, nature and open-air area in the municipality plan in Ski, and it is also located within the land border. In the context of the 1999 revision of the municipality plan for Ski Municipality, Taraldrud sent in a proposal involving a relatively large construction north of the municipality, near the borders of Oslo municipality. The enquiry was late in the planning process and was therefore not taken up for treatment by the municipality. Ski municipality will start work on the revision of the municipal plan in the current year, with a view to decision-making in 2003. The municipality will have the opportunity to address the issue of redisposal of the Taraldrud property in the context of the audit. The county and county council shall contribute to the planning process and ensure that national and regional interests are adequately safeguarded. If an objection is raised to a proposed plan by the county, county or neighbouring municipality and no agreement is reached locally, the matter must be sent to the Ministry of the Environment for decision. After this, I have no reason to intervene in the question of whether dwellings should be built on Taraldrud property in the municipality of Ski. This is still a matter which lies with the municipality and should preferably be resolved there, as most of the regulatory cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2158	It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that this is the Ski Municipality and local democracy that are going to take care of. But we cannot deny that the housing problem is a responsibility for both government and big business, and in that context I think it is important that it can be signalled from the Government towards the municipality of Ski that one might be able to help regulate this property for housing and commercial purposes, in relation to the pressure that Oslo is particularly exposed to now. We also know that the state has constructed a four-field road in the middle of the property and shared the property. We also know that there is a high-spent line that takes large parts of the property, a water line that takes large parts of the property, a highway is planned, and there are also state buildings inside the picture. We also know that Vegvesen plans a control center on the property. As you can see, the state is indirectly involved and takes large parts of the property, and then it might not be a problem for the state to go in and try to give some signals in the direction that we want housing on the property.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2163	First, I have to say that with regard to the general question that Sandberg's representative was dealing with, namely the housing situation in the central eastern region, I share his view that it is important to continue building new dwellings. What I have done is to send out a proposal at the hearing that public agencies have to raise objections in relation to planning processes within three months. The government's mapping has calculated this and believes that it is millions to make use of faster plan-making, so that construction and new houses are realized more quickly. I think that's an important contribution. As far as the matter in question is concerned, I believe that the representative Sandberg, when he thinks about it, fully agrees that it would be unsustainable if the government were to start intervening in local planning processes. I register that Sandberg believes that the municipality should start building here. For the time being, I can't have any idea of that. Now I think the municipality has to work on this. And if the matter should end up on my table, which I hope it does not – I hope it will be resolved locally – I have to say something about it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2170	The councils and the signatories could probably have stood here far beyond what is limited time today. My starting point, also according to what the Council of State said, was that I wanted the Minister of Municipalities to answer this question. Because now we see that the government is also working on the housing issue, and especially new construction. We saw that the Workers' Party now presented its strategy for new construction and housing in the future. We know that 77 pst. Norway’s population is clustering in major cities, and this will also be the situation by 2010. In particular, it will be Oslo who will be pressured. And when we know that 2/3 of Oslo's area is already connected and cannot be built with dwellings, it must be in everyone's interest to use the surrounding areas, as in Ski. Of course, I fully agree with the Council of State that there is no desire for any government or any expansion to intervene in the democratic processes of Ski, but in some way it must be possible from the government to give a signal of what is desirable in terms of housing, and especially in terms of new construction. My starting point to the Council of State was whether he could be involved and contribute to giving such signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2175	I would more than like to contribute to an increase in housing construction, especially in those areas where there is a strong need for it. What the government has done, as I said, is, through a consultation draft, to suggest that the planning process will take much shorter time, so that government agencies cannot wait for years to exercise the right of objection. They have to react in three months. The municipal minister has come up with several initiatives to clean up the terrible square and difficult law we have attached to the building law. A sample has been reduced to look at it. I have also been subjected to other actions by environmental authorities that may be relevant to make the planning process easier. With regard to the transformation of previously used areas into industry, into residential construction, we have a huge job to do. We have started so far in this region. You can see good examples: the corn silo on Grünerløkka, among others. has become student cabins. You have to think much more in that direction. But I'm meant to solve housing challenges in central Eastern areas by rebuilding the few green lungs that are, and I haven't understood the representative either. This is a balance, and best solved these area questions locally and not on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2184	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2228	Referral case No 199 is not proposed during treatment, cf. Paragraph 28(e) of the third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure President-in-Office of the Council, Jørgen Kosmo has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2233	When the Presidency of this case has concluded that we must propose to Stortinget that the matter is not dealt with, it has nothing to do with the facts of the case and the content of the appeal itself. For the Presidency, it has been crucial which institution has the competence to make decisions on such matters. The Court of Justice Act states that for the State it is the Prime Minister or the competent Head of Department who accepts notices and notices. Accordingly, it is the Ministry of Justice which, on behalf of the State, relied on the judgment of the City Court in the Riis case. Thus, the Ministry of Justice also has the competence to withdraw the state's appeals. It follows that the Stortinget cannot represent the State as a party to this lawsuit. As the proposal has been formulated – it is not formulated as a recommendation to the Government or as an instruction to the Government that the Government should take special action, but as a proposal that the Storting should make an explicit decision to withdraw the appeal – it is the Presidency's recommendation that Document No. The 8th proposal is not being taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2242	It's possible it's as formal as the prime minister now explained, though I'll put a question mark on it, as the Storting often takes decisions in an absolute form that it will nevertheless be up to the Government to implement. The majority has often made concrete decisions where it is not stated in the words ‘The Government asks for the Kingdom’. On the contrary, there are actually quite a number of Roman decisions in the context of the State budget which have exactly the same form as my proposal in this matter, and it is quite automatic that the Government must take the necessary implementing measures. It's absolutely nothing special. If you had submitted proposals from other proposers to the same nitite assessment as you do with my proposals and with the proposals of the Progress Party, I think I could find quite a number of analog proposals that have gone through without any of the members of the Presidency actually responding. I think it is looking again to note such a position. It is not what decision The Stortinget can take, which is being treated today – it is the form of treatment. If the presidency had decided to put the proposal out for the thing for two days, and then to take it up to voting, one would, when one came to any voting a few days later, be able to claim that the Grandfather now claims that the Storting does not have the competence to make such a decision. However, I think it is far too early to bring this into a case with such a formal procedure. It would have been fully possible for the Storting to now decide to send this proposal for consideration to a committee, and that the Committee would, if necessary, have a legal opinion and take views on any problems that might arise for the Committee to give an opinion recommending this proposal. The proposal would then be given the opportunity to reword the proposal, or at least to the parties of the proposer in that committee, so that the formal objection now raised by the prime minister would not have been a problem. In that case, a proposal could have been made at the committee hearing: ‘The ruling asks the Government to take the state’s appeal against the judgment’, etc. The same could have been done if it had been dealt with by distributing it and then put it on the agenda two to three days later. This matter would then be dealt with, and I could have drawn up the proposal in Document No at the time of the substantive debate. 8:69 and put forward another proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw the State’s appeal’, etc. If the presidency and the prime minister had been prepared for some flexibility and had been a little helpful, this would have been no problem. I would also like to add here that I assume that this is the last time we experience that a proposal dated 13 February will be referred to the referendum session one month later. It is quite often the case that the Government, which is in exactly the same position as single claims representatives in relation to the right of proposals to the Stortinget, formally hand over proposals to this interlocutor in a meeting in the morning and is given a hearing the same afternoon. Here the Presidency has had a proposal in a drawer for four weeks before it comes to the minutes. I hope it will be the last time that the Presidency shows such discrimination between the representatives' proposals and the Government's proposals. I allow myself to point out what I said this morning when I put forward a proposal with a wording that said that it really is urgent that the proposal be discussed. I think it would be natural to send this proposal to the committee so that the committee could decide on it. If it is possible to present a durable legal statement that the Storting has been cut off from taking such a decision, I will, in the context of the committee procedure, have it changed to another form, where it says ‘The Government is asking to draw the anchor’, etc., in order to allow it. If the Stortinget maintains that it will reject this proposal for consideration, I will, of course, deliver a new, completely identical proposal tomorrow, except that the wording of the proposal itself will be: «The ruling asks the Government to withdraw the state’s appeal against the court’s conclusion in case No. 90-01825 A/23 announced 28 February 2001 in Oslo Tinghus with the defendant Amelia Riis." So we're equidistant. So I think the Presidency's procedure here is under any criticism. I allow myself to recommend Stortinget to vote for my proposal to send Document No. 8:69 to the Judicial Committee to be considered, then one should not demonstrate that the Storting, with the president at the head, is running with tile nailing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2257	I'm just going to have to comment on the indications that Storting's presidency is discriminated against by the different representatives in Stortinget. We don't. The fact that the matter has taken as long as it has been done is due to the fact that the representative Hagen has been made aware that, in the form proposed, it is impossible for the Presidentship of the Stortinge to propose a debate. The representative, Hagen, has therefore had plenty of time to think about – he could have reworded the proposal and, if necessary, arranged for a debate on whether or not the Storting should get involved in a case that took place in the courts or not. But the representative Hagen has chosen to keep the proposal in its original form, and I want to say that then it would be wrong for the Presidentship of the Stortinge to propose a form of treatment that is clearly contrary to the laws of the Stortinge itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2264	First to the rate of treatment. The Rules of Procedure do not provide any basis for the Presidency to postpone the examination of a record because a proposer disagrees with the Presidency's proposal for a procedure. There's no warrant for that. Once the proposal has been submitted to the Storting, the Presidency has an obligation to refer to the minutes and how that proposal is to be dealt with. To date, we have shown great patience with the Presidency, as proposals submitted by the representatives of the Grand Duchy are being discussed at the Presidency's usual Thursday meeting after the proposal has been submitted. We have even accepted many times that it has taken a little over a week from the Presidency to complete its approach to treatment. Now it's been four weeks. No matter what a proposer might think, there is no excuse for the Presidency not to do his job. In this case, we will take that discussion here in the Chamber, because the Presidency has the appointing authority and not the decision-making authority. The President says I was made aware of etc. I have said that I disagree with the presidency's assessment here. It's not that there's only one truth about what the Greatness can't do, can't do, can't do or should do. There may be different opinions, and then it gets through voting in the hall. It is not that because you may disagree, the Presidency may not bring the matter up to the hearing as a matter of record. The proposal was submitted on 13 February and today is 13 March. The government submitted a proposal this morning, St.prp. No 45 for 2001-2001 and reporting is now under way. That is what I mean when I talk about discrimination. I made a proposal this morning. I explicitly asked the President to conclude that it was dealt with as a matter of record as quickly as possible, because of the wording of the proposal. There's no treatment here. How can the Presidency have taken a decision on the suspension of a case by the Government today morning and not in the case of a proposal by a representative? There is a discrimination that is not permitted anywhere, and which I allow myself to charge. It is when proposals come to voting, if necessary, that one can say that they cannot be dealt with. And I have notified the Presidency. When the big business president first starts to provide information about in-depth contact, which has nothing to do with bringing the matter forward in this meeting, I would say that I have been willing to do several of the things that I have been asked to do. It hasn't been good enough for the presidency. I have notified that if there was a problem with the wording of the proposal, we could change it in committee, so that there would be no voting. I have notified all these things. Here it is the presidency that has riddled its chauffeurs instead of showing agility. And that's not exactly what the president says, that I've been made aware that the Storting is prevented from adopting what's in this decision. I think I'm going to find a lot of examples that it's the government that implements things by law, but where the Storting not only has legal position, but actually also parliamentary authority. The usual thing in this Chamber is that the Storting exercises parliamentary authority over the Government. I'm holding on to my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-13.ana.ud775e2281	Two proposals for case 199 have been tabled in the course of the proceedings. Let me make it clear that the background to the Presidency's recommendation is that, in the opinion of the Presidency, it is impossible for the Stortinget to act as the State's representative in a legal dispute. And that's what this is all about, it's not about other categories of things. When it comes to representing the State in a legal dispute, Stortinget has no competence to do so. There are two proposals. It is the Presidency's recommendation that the proposal of Mr Carl I. Hagen not be taken into consideration, cf. Paragraph 28(e) of the third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure And that's Carl I. Hagen's proposal that the case be referred to the Justice Committee. The President proposes that there should be an alternative vote between the Presidency's recommendation and that of Carl I. Hagen.
