ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e48	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e55	This provision concerns one of the paragraphs of the Act on the Marketing of Alcoholic Drinks, etc. This paragraph, the second paragraph of Section 3-7, regulates the power of attorney of the municipalities in relation to the times at which beer should be allowed to be sold in grocery stores. The majority want to keep the legal text of the day, which empowers municipalities to allow the sale of beer until noon. 20 on weekdays. A minority of the Progress Party wants to extend the authority of the municipality, so that the municipalities can decide for themselves the sales times for beer without the legal text restricting the action room of the municipalities. Another minority, the members of the Workers' Party, want to amend the law so that the municipalities are authorised to allow the sale of beer until 9.00 p.m. 21 on weekdays. I assume that the majority and members of the Progress Party themselves justify their position. I will therefore briefly limit myself to justify the Workers' Party's position in this matter, which is probably not among the largest we have dealt with in Odelstinget. In this case, we in the Workers' Party agreed that the municipalities should be able to sell beer until noon. 21.00, i.e. as long as the opening time law allows grocery stores to be open on weekdays. Our reason for this is that we believe that today's regulations are impractical. Shops must put in place a number of practical measures to prevent the sale of beer from hrs. 20 to 20 o'clock. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Such schemes can contribute to what we believe would be a weakening of the public's understanding that beer sales should and should be regulated. Our proposal therefore leads to harmonisation between the opening time law and the alcohol law. Then I am aware that the government has announced a change in the opening time law that might complicate this picture. However, it is difficult, in my view, for both the Committee and Odelstingen to deal with possible legislative changes to the opening time law before any such proposal has been promoted by Odelstingen. That is why we in the Labour Party choose to deal with today's opening time law and propose harmonisation of the provisions of the alcohol law and the opening time law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e73	Of the two minority proposals presented in the vote, what is identical to Document No itself. The 8th proposal, the most far-reaching. To let the municipalities determine the time for beer sales will initially only mean beer sales one hour longer. However, this proposal by the subsequent removal of the opening time law, for which it is likely to be a majority, will be able to open up beer sales around the clock. The working party proposes to extend the possibility of selling beer until noon. 21, on the grounds that they don't want to risk beer sales around the clock. The proposal is supported subsidiaryly by the Progress Party. Both of these proposals are linked to the famous curtain that covers the beer boxes at 4 p.m. 20 in the shops that have opened until 8 p.m. 21st Last@item: inlistbox Some had thought it would have been natural that even the Right had supported this proposal. Possibly it would have been. But there are things that are more important to the Right than giving people the opportunity to buy beer one hour longer, namely removing the entire opening time law, so it's up to each business to keep open as long as it wants. It will lead to a more open and accessible society for consumers in a completely different way than beer sales can provide one hour longer. Right went into the brink of a more open society at the beginning of the 1980s. In 1985 the old law on closure was replaced by a new law on opening hours. The right is concerned about continuing this policy, and regards public-determined opening time laws as an premature interference between those who act and those who offer goods. In a society, diversity is needed. With a strong emphasis on services, it is not possible to assume that everyone should work and be free at the same time. There are different needs both in the population and in the different municipalities. The Sem Declaration states that the Opening Time Act should be removed. While this has been passed on to the Right, there is agreement between the government parties not to extend the time of beer sales. Call it a compromise, but in that case it's a compromise for which what the Right got through, is far more important to us, and has far more importance for people than being allowed to buy beer one more hour. In addition, the beer curtain will in any case be lost when the opening time law is removed. I want a store open till noon. 23:00, the beer curtain must be in place. 21.00. Thus, the Labour Party's proposal would only expose the beer curtain for one hour. Moreover, the Workers' Party's care for those who want to buy beer for an hour longer, is quite hollow, when the party is at the same time opposed to removing the opening time law, which will increase the availability of groceries without alcohol to consumers. But the position is not particularly surprising. The Labour Party has never been known to work for a more open society or to be specifically user-oriented in its policies. By removing the Open Time Act, we will provide citizens with a more open and accessible society with fewer regulations. At the same time, by keeping provisions on selling time in the alcohol law, we will avoid the possibility of selling beer around the clock. Once local authorities have restrictions relative to outlets, it is better for them to be in the alcohol law than in an opening time law. Finally, it must also be added that trade in goods is not only free of opening times, which are intended to provide a more user-oriented society, including opening times for, for example. different public offices and cultural institutions need to be adapted to people's everyday lives and working days. They'll be open when people have the opportunity to visit. Although there have been improvements in many places, there are still too many who have been open only when most are at work or school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e90	I have a great deal of understanding that the previous speaker angled his post against the opening time law, which we have not yet had a case about for Stortinget, instead of talking about exactly this proposal. I understand that very well as the representative represents the Right in this Chamber and not the Christian People's Party. The background to the proposal that we have promoted is that this seems to be a law that has expired until those degrees. The law of opening hours and the laws on the placing on the market of alcoholic beverages are related. The normal selling time for beer is from 0 p.m. 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 6 p.m. on weekdays, but then the individual municipality can extend the sales time to 6 p.m. 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. 6:00 on Saturdays. This will continue to be the case for the majority of this House. They will not extend and harmonise, as the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was at, the time of today's opening time law and the law on the marketing of alcoholic beverages. So you still want to keep this curtain, or the plastic bags that cover this item, this last hour that companies in the grocery store are allowed to open. I must say, I am very surprised to hear the argument from the Right, that they refer to the opening time law. For my part, I am from the Sem Declaration and from a statement by the State Council Victor D. Norman held in this Chamber, aware that there are changes to the Opening Time Act. It was announced that there would be a proposal to repeal the Opening Time Act, but it does not yet exist in this room, and we have to deal with today's reality and not something that will come in the future. In this case, I will actually praise the Workers' Party for what they have done. They do not want to go as far as the Progress Party, namely that it is the individual municipalities that have to decide for themselves when to transfer this legal product and at what time. They're sitting at 4 p.m. 21.00 as a deadline, and I respect that, and that is why I will also vote subsidiaryly for that very proposal from the Labour Party. It has to be inside of some of the Right People in this room, who are going to sit and vote against this proposal here today. The Council of State might also come up with that, and I would like to ask: is it right-wing policy that they will now continue to maintain this curtain? They call it an alcohol policy position, but what's the consequence of that? Is it this hour to be the right place to limit the marketing of alcoholic beverages? Why the clock? 8:00 p.m., why not? Nineteen? You should have as short opening times as possible if you want to follow that argument. I just have to say that in this case, it seems as if the Christian People's Party is holding a damp hand over the Right. When I sat in this room in the last period, I cooperated with the Right on some suggestions in these areas, but now they turn the other way around in these matters and say that this is how it is now Right wants it. Among the Right People out there that I've talked to after this proposal was promoted, there's at least a lot of headshaking. They simply cannot believe that the Right of the Storting will go against this on the grounds that sooner or later it comes into the opening time law, because if that is what is the argument, they could actually have voted in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party has presented here today and to which the Advance Party will give its subsidiary support. What is also interesting is, of course, the letter that the Minister of Social Affairs has sent to the Committee, where she, among other things, is. says: «When this is said, I agree that it may seem unfortunate to a system where beer outlets, according to the Opening Time Act, can stay open until noon. 21.00, but under the alcohol law, only beer can be sold until 2:00 p.m. - Twenty. I also believe there may be several reasons for looking at the opening times for beer sales in the alcohol law.’ In the form of letters you speak for the proposal, but when you come to this room, you vote against the proposal – of course because this is the Christian People's Party that rules, not the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e114	The setting in this case shows that there is a plurality of Stortinget that not only rejects the liberalisation proposal from the Progress Party but points out that the total consumption of alcohol has to be reduced and that access has to be reduced. The same majority consider it to be very positive that the Department of the Evaluation of Alcohol Laws is more occupied with the large increase in alcohol consumption than with tourism and district policy. When one knows how important these two policy areas are to the parties behind the plurality, these comments have to have a value beyond this. An alcohol policy that reduces access and thus also reduces use and subsequent harm is more important than the availability of alcohol in each country as a whole. The opening time is one of many means of limiting access to alcohol. The step-by-step team wants to open up the possibility of having a daily alcohol outlet. It is difficult to understand that a party that is very high on the ground in other areas of social policy, in a positive sense, does not seem to take inward links between increased access to alcohol and increased harm to individuals and to society. The Workers' Party also jumps off the plural at the end, as they go in to expand the opening hours by one hour. From the Christian People's Party's side, we record with great positive interest that the Socialist Left Party is united with the government party in proposing that the document be rejected. And so does the Center Party. With the guides that the same parts of the image have left behind, one way or the other. I look forward to cooperation in other relevant areas. There is someone who is trying to score an hour from that. 20 must be subtracted for e.g. a curtain to close between beer stores and other goods. According to the contributors, it should have no function other than irritating people and creating more work for grocery stores. It's actually not for the purpose. We do it because all available secure data tell us that the greater the access to alcohol, the greater the consumption and the damage. Alcohol-related damage is the biggest social problem we have in society. The Social Committee has recently been in France to find out more about their health care centre. They said a lot of good things, but something they didn't say, that the large consumption of alcohol in France, 16 litres per year. person, causing each other’s infirmity to be occupied by patients with alcohol-related injuries. Those who have been on text television in the last few days have been able to register it. We have also seen that studies and assessments in Sweden tell us that an increase of one litre in alcohol consumption leads to a considerable increase in the damage caused by violence. The opening time and the alcohol laws are one of the elements we can click on to limit these damage. I think it is commendable of the Right, in cooperation with the other government parties, to have come to a compromise in an important matter for which there are then pluralities in the Storting and which actually provide good opportunities for a positive and active alcohol policy in the future. Contrary to the representative Nesvik, who held a Christian People's Party hand to be a bit clumsy in alcohol policy, I can assure you that as long as the Christian People's Party gets to say something about alcohol policy, it becomes a warm and good and responsible alcohol policy, to which I should like the Progress Party to join. It takes responsibility for society as a whole, including those who have problems with alcohol use. And this curtain that's so problematic: I could give it the idea that one could make it in a little bit of fun colors and a little bit of color glamorous, so it could be an attraction when the evening was getting tired and they went running the curtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e131	The document we are discussing is a proposal to amend the alcohol law, and the alcohol law is about regulating the availability of alcoholic beverages. In the debate so far it has been argued very much for some peripheral things, I think. There have been substitutive motives and arguments. The party of progress in this matter suddenly becomes very concerned about and responsible for district policy, and we rarely hear that elsewhere. The right most talk about the opening time law, and the Labour Party also has a somewhat unclear and ambiguous assessment between the alcohol law and the opening time law, in my opinion. The representatives of the Workers' Party express their views, inter alia: that they: 'provides that the purpose of the Law of 2 June 1989 is to: 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. significant emphasis is placed on the assessment of the opening time law.’;» I'm a little concerned that the Workers' Party here is in danger of committing itself to the mast that will have the dome of the ‘Opening Time Act’ at the top, and that a very rough approach is being taken to the law to assess the availability of alcoholic beverages. You're going to have to do that in the next round. There is a majority here, consisting of the government parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, who reject the proposal of the Progress Party, and we agree with the Social Minister when she points out in her letter of 25 January this year that the proposal of the Progress Party provides an unfortunate link between the provisions of the Opening Time Act and the Alcohol Act. We know that the Government, through the Sem Declaration and also through signals given in this Chamber, is working on the opening time law. The signals so far are, of course, that the opening time law should be abolished in the case of regulatory decisions. I guess we'll hear more from the Ministry of Children and Family about this matter later. We think it's unfortunate to link these two things up. The alcohol law is an important law when we look at what the alcohol can lead to. The representative from the Christian People's Party pointed out a little to what other countries disagree with in terms of alcohol-related diseases and the pressure on health services in this context. We also have the same thing here in Norway and should therefore at least be careful to increase availability in such a way that we get even more problems. I think it's going to be a bit easier for the proposers to say that the legal system we have today has only one function: irritating people and creating more work for the grocery stores. I think it's very easy to use arguments in this context. We believe it is important to have a restrictive, tidy and completely crystal clear alcohol law, which cannot be messed up with other legislation so that we have unfortunate situations. If you want to follow suggestions for opening hours from the current government, according to what has been signaled so far, we will get an opening time law that at least on weekdays, if you link up the sale of beer to it, probably can lead to a get sale of beer, and now also Brussels, all day long. We don't think that's acceptable. I am therefore pleased that a majority will reject this Document No. The 8 here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e151	Norway has really little to be ashamed of when it comes to the alcohol policy that has been pursued and for which there have been traditions in Norway, even when looking at its results. Compared, for example, with France, which was brought forward here, or Germany, the incidence of alcohol-related harm has generally been much lower in Norway than in the continent. We have now seen developments that go more in the direction of continental drinking habits in combination with consecration, for which there has been tradition in Norway, and it is seen that the adverse effects are being more pronounced as a consequence of it. It's not been very many years since you described in Iceland that you hadn't seen a shrink liver. In order to teach medicine, it had to be imported to see it at the pathologist's table. This was also because they had other types of drinking culture and restrictions in relation to giving. And then we see how part of these differences are gradually being evened out. You can go inside and ridicule the extension of the opening time by one hour and ask what it can matter. But in sum, if the consequence is 24 hours opening time in terms of the sale of alcohol and a general availability that is much larger than today, that means that the adverse effects become more and more like those we see on the continent. There is often a picture – on one occasion also by the wine-paltist in the Evening Post – of a kind of Ola Dunk mentality in Norway, where we are blinded to how to enjoy our alcohol culturefully and that we have a lot to learn from how it is happening on the continent. What is interesting to see is that both Italy and Portugal now have legislation related to alcohol sales where the elements of the legislation are related to the one we have had in Norway. But we also see how much more difficult it is to get back into countries that have had a very liberal approach and a liberal culture related to alcohol sales. We also see how the initial age of alcohol use is much lower in those countries. Therefore, SV has been an aid player in relation to a relatively restrictive attitude related to alcohol sales. I disagree with the Progress Party when it is presented as if Norway is already very restrictive at the outset. Compare with, for example: In the United Kingdom, pubs often close at 23 hours, while Norway has longer open than very many other European countries with which it is natural to compare. It is absolutely necessary to set up a type of external framework for the provision of alcohol, to discuss the means of action further and not to abandon the means of action we have now had and which have also had an effect. Nevertheless, some of us recognize that this means that on the way forward we give up some of the tools we have used, and then you have to look at others to replace them. For SV, it has been important to limit the placing on the market of alcohol in terms of where alcohol is to be sold — for example: We are in order to maintain the monopoly of wine. We have also been in favour of limiting the sale of beer in grocery stores, precisely because studies show that beer purchased in the evening, especially in late evening, is often purchased by the groups that are struggling with their alcohol consumption and therefore buy it at that time. Consumers who otherwise have planned purchases will be able to purchase it without difficulty within a normal period of opening and without being restricted in relation to the use of alcohol for that reason. It's about understanding which groups are particularly affected if we become increasingly liberal. What is the consequence of this also going to be purely healthful? And how can we take those consequences inwards when we are going to create legislation in this area? The SV's starting point to support the government parties here is to maintain the external constraints already in existence today with regard to the marketing of alcohol in the food business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e166	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e169	What got me to take the floor first was that in my first post I forgot to take up the proposal we have made in the vote. I'll do that. But the debate has also created the need to comment on a couple of issues that I might think some representatives are a bit perplexed. Magne Aarøen has an article that is marked by the need to limit availability. I'm not going to argue that there's a connection between availability and consumption, but there's another very important alcohol policy instrument in addition to availability, and that's price. As far as I know, the government that is now sitting has clear ambitions to reduce the alcohol tax in order to make alcohol and wine cheaper. So to the extent that you hit your chest in terms of availability, you also have to recognize that the other main instrument is you're set to weaken by making alcohol and wine cheaper. That they planned it, was also seen in the treatment of this year's government budget, where the Christian People's Party put in government and made sure that the liquor fees in Norway went down. If you are to take credit for one thing, you have to take the whole of the policy with you. The second thing that made me respond was the post from Ballo, which is also clear in ideology, in the sense that SV is hard on limiting availability. But what strikes me then is: has Ballo forgotten that the committee now has to deal with a proposal from two SV repressants – in line with SV’s programme – that involves opening up a number of new start-ups of alcohol and wine sales in Norway that we have never seen before? [[Hanssen]] It will provide us with alcohol and wine for sale in all the municipalities of the country, according to an experimental scheme where – according to the proposal – SV wants to sell alcohol and wine over the same discs that also pay social assistance! Then it takes a certain degree of freeness to go to the pulpit of the Storting and say that you are the party to limit availability! At the same time, when it is stated that the wine monopoly system is to be maintained – it is apparently a taboo for SV – there is a proposal in the Stortinget which requires the law to be amended and which opens up for the first time in history for wine and spirits to be sold by persons other than the employees of the Vinmonopolet. SV is the only party that has so far made a proposal that in practice significantly weakens the wine monopoly system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e185	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e188	I think the last speaker's moment in relation to SV is essential to take with him. One doesn't have to talk so awfully loud about it. However, I would like to ask the representatives to be a little more careful about harbinging each other's views and attitudes. I've lived for a while, and I come from a town in the West called Stryn. There it was forbidden to sell beer in shops in their time. There any one had to go to Bergen to get alcohol, and at best a few could buy cashiers with beer if one went to a beer monopoly. That arrangement was subsequently terminated, and beer was allowed to be sold in shops. I am among those in Norway who believe that the alcohol is a poison that should initially be banned. But when it is now available for sale in stores, as a majority in the Stortinget has decided, we must also accept that it is allowed to be traded. Information and attitudes I think are important tools to tell both the growing family and the older importance of the alcohol and its effects on the body. I believe that the debate on whether or not we should agree to give authority to local government to decide how late this could be sold is not the most important debate we have been going on in this house, which the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, was also involved in his opening speech. What also surprised me a little bit was the representative of the Christian People's Party, who said that when that party got to decide, it was a «hot and good» alcohol policy that was conducted. I would like to remind you that a few years ago it was a visit to Bergen that was a warm and good beer policy. But now it's accepted. The comfort of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party will be that in a few years it may be the policy that we are now championing, that will be the warm and good policy, also for the Christian People's Party. Time will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e201	We are now probably debating the most dangerous hour of the day. It's talkin' in an hour! It is quite interesting how far some people are drawn to the high levels of alcohol policy when we discuss whether to buy a legally traded item, which most municipalities have in the grocery trade, until 20 or 21, and whether it is a very important alcohol policy instrument. I would also like to say a little bit about what the representative Ballo was talking about. He said that those who don't have an alcohol problem, they have no problem buying goods until noon. 20, it's primarily those people who have an alcohol problem who want to buy the goods after 8 p.m. 20. That is interesting – especially when you see it in the context of the proposal that SV has made, which the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also mentioned, that we should now open up the possibility of selling wine monopolies at public service offices! Where a person addresses problems with his or her family economy, has drug problems, needs to take action, needs help, or needs to seek social assistance — so it seems to be a good idea to have a polut sale. Then, with the Advance Party, you have a lot of harem, which wants to have this in the shops. That is quite correct, in fact, the Progress Party is involved in its party program – we believe that we will also have beer and wine and starch in the shops. We don't have any trouble with that. I thought there was another party that stood for it in its party program, but it's clear that there are more problems here with one's partner in government cooperation than following one's own party program. I have to make a little comment to the representative of the Aarøen of the Christian People's Party, who spoke about his warm hands and his warm alcohol policy. Then it's a little interesting that in Ålesund City Council a week ago even the Christian People's Party said that it's not enough to fight more against beer sales in the shops, and voted for all the sales appropriations for beer in the grocery store in Ålesund. I think it's a little important that you maybe stop raising your own policy, that it's not necessarily the very best in all areas, but maybe it's also thinking a little bit about the traders. I also don't think it's those who have a lot of alcohol problems, who will necessarily buy beer after 1:00 p.m. 20, and I think that sooner or later we have to admit that in terms of this curtain that we have, no matter what color it is on it and how funny it is, there's a law clause that's expired on date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e212	Will the representative Harald T. Nesvik put forward the proposals of the Progress Party? The possibility is there now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e215	I would like to put forward the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e220	The representative Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e223	I can't see that I've had a bit of a hustle and bustle with any other parties or in any way I've tried to do it. I've given a reason for SV's position. Several have put forward the proposal for a mini-pole under consideration in the Committee. We are now in the middle of the process of treatment; we have not even commented on the proposal. But what we're going to make clear is that, first of all, this is about a trial plan, and second, there are very strict restrictions attached to the conditions for selling alcohol. But it is a misunderstanding that this should be about the sale of alcohol by social security offices or social security/labour market seats. That's not what it's about at all. The thing to be aware of is that alcohol is currently delivered to post offices through the ordering system through the Vinmonopolet. In line with this, the pilot scheme will be a similar sale of alcohol under the auspices of the Vinmonopolet, but outside the usual premises of the Vinmonopolet, and of course a system must be in place to ensure that this is done professionally. It will be quite unimaginable – and we will also clarify that in the form of a comment – that this should have anything to do with social affairs. I record that several people are drawing it out, but there has never been any intention or suggestion that you should. We will also come back to that, as well as strict requirements for competence. When it is said that there is an experimental mechanism and we are also taking into account the objections made by the social minister regarding the consequences of pilot schemes, I think they will see – I don't know if it will reassure them – that the Progress Party is putting so much pressure on the system that many of the objections that some have raised here today will be met. And then we get to take that experience, if it becomes the majority of the system, which it gives us as to whether this is a good or a bad proposal and something you might want to go on with. We'll take it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e234	We are still debating rushing and psychiatry, especially in relation to children and young people. We know that alcohol consumption has increased in Norway, especially among children and young people aged 15 to 20 years. Do we not have a special responsibility in this Chamber in relation to those problems? The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, says that the Workers' Party wants to harmonise the laws – the opening time law and the alcohol law – because the removal of the closing law is not yet a reality. Does this mean that the Workers' Party will continue to harmonise the law if the removal of the closing law becomes a reality, in other words, have the sale of beer in the shops 24 hours a day? I believe that the Labour Party in many ways contradicts itself when they are involved in the Committee's comments and by a clear majority say that they want to ‘limit access to alcohol in order to reduce total consumption and underline the need for increased prevention’. In addition, they believe that the regulation of alcohol sales times in the alcohol law ‘is one of many means of limiting access to alcohol in society’. It's pretty creepy, I think. As a right-wing politician, I don't turn around in the hall today. I'm not doing that, as the representative Nesvik said. On the contrary, I believe from what I have said here in the case of children and young people, that it is time to stop. We have a responsibility to stop and reconsider alcohol and drug policies in general. Of course, as a politician, I know what we have in our program, but there's no reason not to stop and think about – what are we doing, where do we want? Just for the sake of the many children and young people who have problems today, I stand for what the Right and the Government have been involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e243	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e246	It is at least nice to hear that the representative Nørve does not turn around in the hall today. But when you hear the argument that she even – I was saying – is taking a break from her own party program, I'm starting to get a little worried. It is clear that representatives from the Right are changing their positions on alcohol policy. You talk about prevention, which everyone agrees on. It's actually an area for which all the parties in the social committee have joined. The strange thing is that the party that is alive for this hour is a party that actually has in its program that you want to sell wine at the shops. Unfortunately, no longer do believers believe that this hour can be so unbelievably dangerous to the Right Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e253	I understand that this is more than me from Stryn! Maybe both of us who are from Stryn have followed in the evolution that has happened since the time one had to travel to Bergen. I'm not sure everyone traveled to Bergen before either. I am also not sure that the alcohol problems in Stryn and the social office that can tell from Stryn and other municipalities have gone into a positive path. It's getting so bad. It was a debate earlier today on wage settlement. What the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen ran on was that the state had to enter and prevent – shouldn't the state prevent? When it broke down the payroll, he lamented that the state could not be a passive auditor until a damage had occurred. It was very important to be out early and contribute. When I embarrass the zeal of the Advance Party in this matter, that one should be out early and prevent damage from their angle, it becomes very strange and I wonder when the Advance Party in the Alcohol Policy seemed to want to wait until the damage has happened. They won't be there. They will have the most open, the cheapest possible access. It's still a mystery to me when I hear the Progress Party's ideology that everything should be available at all times, when one at the same time knows about the enormous damage that alcohol causes to groups, young groups, family osb. Is it not wise, then, to use the same adjective as Carl I. Hagen used earlier today when, as they wished, it was a good idea that one is a leader and is not passively accommodating to free access? Wouldn't it be a good rule to bring with you here too?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e263	It may not be the biggest thing we're discussing here in the hall, but right now this is the topic. What's a little amazing to me is that we have so little faith in local authorities, which I really perceive is the matter, so it's the local local local government that's going to decide this topic. So the question is, are we going to move authority from the hall out here to the municipalities and let them judge what their field of interest is? Since we are colleagues from the municipality of Stryn, I would like Stryn Municipal Council to decide this, to have the authority to determine opening hours. I ask the question: Who has a monopoly on understanding? Are we the ones that are debating here? Or are there people in local environments who have the basis for setting opening hours for the sale of alcohol? We are of the opinion that this must be decided by local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e272	I think we have discussed this matter long enough. But it was the last post that made me ask for the word. It's now become a part of Stryn's municipal policy, and that's okay enough. But it's a little wrong if we're going to start talking about limiting local autonomy because of what we're discussing today. Local self-government is there, and maximum times are completely within the scope of the law. What matters today is to extend the maximum time or not to have a maximum time at all. These are the maximum times that central politicians are responsible for setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e279	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 156]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e295	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e304	I'll try to make an article on this matter that makes it not take off the debate. On 3 October 2001, the Stoltenberg Government concluded an intention agreement with the social partners on a more inclusive working life. Its purpose was, among other things: reducing sick leave. Ot. pp. No 29, which we are currently examining, contains the necessary proposals for legislative changes in the field of sickness benefit in order to implement the Memorandum of Understanding. The legislative proposals concern: introduction of obligations on workers and doctors respectively to provide the necessary information to employers as regards the performance of employees with regard to the functional assessment requirements of the medical certificate for the introduction of medical leave to provide instructions on the organisation allowance for the intra-corporate reinsurance of sick pay paid during the employer's period when the worker is sick on grounds of maternity and relocating to other work in the establishment is not possible; It is a unanimous committee that has stated that this commitment agreement between the social partners is very important in view of ‘stopping the very worrying increase in sick leave that has taken place for a number of years’, i.e. sick pay payments. It is also worth noting that the Committee further states that: ‘set up measures to improve the business environment so that workers with reduced working capacity, who are able to do so, can make the most of their residual working capacity’. The Committee is essentially in agreement with the proposed legislative amendments. But at one point a unanimous committee has proposed to change the content of a paragraph. This applies to the fourth paragraph of Section 8-7, which is proposed to be replaced by the following: ‘Long-term obligations in cooperation with the worker to further assess the worker’s performance.’ In addition, the majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties outside the governmental parties, has proposed that: «The government considers increasing the amount of the organising grant in addition to the proposed NOK 250 to increase the amount of the grant in accordance with the actual costs of such organisation for each employer». This is also in line with the feedback provided by the LO and NHO during consultation within the Social Committee. On a few points, the Progress Party has chosen to stand outside some of the majority’s comments in the vote – this is because we have agreed with the Government’s proposed proposal, or because the issues raised are caught up in other laws. However, I find reason to link some comments to something that has arisen along the way. This is a letter issued by the Ministry in connection with this Act to individual enterprises. In this supervisor, which has been developed, it has been decided, without any prior conference with the Stortinget, that this should apply from 1 April. What turned out was that the case rapporteur, when it had first been suggested how the case was to be dealt with, was made aware by the NHO that it had already been developed and sent out a supervisor referring to the date of entry into force, 1 April, without the Stortinge had dealt with the matter, without the Stortinge had taken a decision when the proceedings were to take place. Nevertheless, such a plan was sent out to the companies. I think you should be a little careful with this. It seems like you're just cutting off Storting's treatment. So finally, I want to commend the social partners and the state that has reached this agreement. Now we have to make the agreement work, get to work for a while, and then you get back to new things if it turns out this isn't working. Among other things, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have decided that if the intention of the agreement is not fulfilled, it is necessary to return to possible changes and regulations. I hope that with these changes in the law now, and when the agreement is concluded for a while, we can see a different development in the payment of sick pay, so that we get better organized jobs, lower sick leave and thus lower costs for both companies and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e354	A broad effort is required to achieve the objective of an inclusive working life. We need a change in the attitudes of employees and in the attitudes of employers towards the participation of older workers – not least participation from those who cannot always provide 100 pst. effort. The right of disabled persons to work has not been realised. The cooperation agreement between the social partners is a very important instrument for reducing sick leave and dampening disability. Few European countries charge employers with health money expenditure as little as we do in Norway. Norwegian enterprises pay nothing after 16 days of absence. French enterprises pay on average half their wages for 200 days. Dutch employers pay full wages throughout the first year the employee is ill. The entire Committee also stresses the employer's obligation to organise and organise work with regard to the individual's performance. For the Workers' Party, there is no need to levy taxes on sickness for Norwegian workers. The sick pay scheme is to be maintained, but it is natural to demand improved efforts from the employer in order to reduce sick leave. This must apply both to prevention and to facilitating the faster return of the sick to work and, last but not least, to the provision of appropriate work to workers with long-term disabilities. The employer, employee and doctor must now work out together what the employee's function is. What are the strongest aspects of employees? Diagnosis and treatment are still equally important, but it should no longer be the morbidity that should be in focus, but the functionality. In order for the Norwegian health system to be able to implement the agreement, its competence and treatment capacity must be strengthened, in particular, in the case of musculoskeletal and mental disorders. Women's sick leave is generally slightly higher than men's. In fact, a rapid follow-up of NOU 1999:13, Women’s health in Norway, could contribute to a further reduction in sick leave. The State has the largest costs of sick leave and disability leave and should therefore actively contribute to the wide-ranging efforts of the social security offices towards the enterprises. Everyone, except the Advance Party, agrees that this effort requires the recruitment of competent personnel, and that this must be firmly added. The parties and the State have come to the conclusion that an effort of about 600 annual works is needed. 80 of these are transfers of the employment service from Aetat to the new employment units of social security offices. In addition, the Government has proposed to recruit only 80 more in 2002. This is, after the Labour Party's opinion, a too weak start. Recruitment of staff should be much higher. Its more people who join early and gain experience, the safer we are to achieve the goal of reducing sick leave by 20 pst. With such a puzzled follow-up to the agreement, a question may arise as to whether the Government at all has a real desire to achieve the objectives of the agreement. It is good that the Committee wishes to assess the need for higher organisational grants. And last but not least, there is now a refund for sick pay paid during the employer's period when sick leave is due to maternity, and when intra-corporate redeployment is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e371	The background to the proposition is that some legislative changes in the field of sickness benefit are needed in order to implement the Memorandum of Understanding. Sick leave has increased sharply over many years. It cost people's money $21.8 billion in 2000. The strong and worrying increase in sick leave and the large growth in the number of new disability pensioners was the background for the Sandman Committee to be reduced. The committee proposed measures to strengthen the accountability of both employers, employees and public services. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to slow down the growth in the number of deaths, which in 2000 was almost 280,000 people. Every tenth adult in Norway is unpensioned. The number has increased by about 30,000 new cases each year. Fortunately, several disabled people have both a desire to work and some ability to work. In 2001, the National Agency for Social Security started a systematic work aimed at all 18- to 50-year-olds to look at the possibilities of bringing them back to work. This Christian People's Party seems to be a very positive measure. We also think it is very positive that the social partners have concluded an agreement to strengthen the working line. For most people it makes sense to have a job to go to even if you are not able to be there 100 pst. A lot of pensioners are crazy and can imagine a more flexible transition to retirement life. The intention agreement provides for such an opportunity. The objective of reducing sick leave by at least 20 pst. is very ambitious and challenging. If one is to succeed, everyone must contribute to commitment cooperation. Recent figures from the Statistical Centre and the National Agency for Social Security last week show a slight increase in sick leave. If the trend is to be reversed, more employment enterprises – IA enterprises – must be established than the 155 already established. IA companies are provided with easier use of active health care services, extended self-announcement for employees, own contact person in the social security system and own cost of occupational health services. The agreement also allows for the purchase of several sick persons free from the hospital queues. Grants are granted to employ people with reduced working capacity. Since many people are sick because of musculoskeletal disorders, it is important that a person organises the workplace ergonomically. Many can also be prevented by looking at different factors of well-being. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on Employers’ Obligations to Organise as a result of the information provided on the functioning. The doctor shall make an assessment of the employee’s function regardless of whether an employer’s request exists. An important message of happiness in the proposition is consideration for pregnant women. The proposal to cover the cost of sick pay during the employer’s period when the cause of sick leave is related to pregnancy and relocating to other work is not possible will make it easier for pregnant women to get a job. The Christian People's Party wishes that maternity work leave be carried out differently from normal sick leave, as pregnancy is not a disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e397	The high rate of sick leave and disability is clearly worrying. At the same time, one must be careful to maximize this crisis in such a way that no light can be seen in heaven. In Ot.prp. No 29 from the Government is not up-to-date with figures for 2001. We haven't gotten the complete figures for 2001 yet, but at least we have the figures for the first three quarters. They suggest that the cost of paying sick pay is over DKK 1 billion lower than the 2001 budget. Similarly, the cost of social benefits in the event of disability seems to be over 500 million. kr lower. Those are happy numbers, and we have to take that with us. A majority of the Committee has also said that the Government should use these positive developments to propose constructive and concrete measures that can further reduce sick leave and disability. Furthermore, there is a need to note the report from Rogaland’s research, ‘Global competitiveness’, an analysis based on the Kverneland Group and the Kverneland Group’s enterprises in four countries. It states that the sickness benefit scheme is favourable for Norwegian enterprises when compared with those in several other comparable countries. The study shows that it is much cheaper for Norwegian companies to have sick workers than it is for, for example. German, French and Dutch holdings. It really underlines that the sickness pay scheme is good for more parties in the world of work than only for the employee, as it has been produced. We are quite clear that the Memorandum of Understanding concluded between the Government and the social partners on 3 October 2001 must be followed up with accountability from all parties. This applies to the employer, to the employee and also to public bodies responsible for this, and must be done in an appropriate and good way. The legal adjustments made in this case today are made to meet this and make it work. I think it is important to remember that there is a part of this that rests on the public and on the state. It is now important that health services, specialist services in outpatient clinics and hospitals are offered the fastest possible treatment and return to working life, and it is also important to ensure that developments in the training institutions move in the right direction, so that quality and good treatment leading to the fastest possible rehabilitation and return to working life. In the past, we have had a round of public responsibilities in particular in the area of responsibility within the social security system, and there was a discussion in the context of this year's budget on the provision of sufficient resources in this context. There's still some disagreement about that. We tried to add at least some more funds from the Center Party to that post, but we hope now that the Social Security Act is able to remand its offices and its external office in such a way that it can be followed up from that side as well, so that it will be a proper implementation of this. Among other things, the NHO has pointed out that it is important to get a reinforcement here, regardless of the commitment agreement. It is also important for us to establish that future healthcare messages should not only have a purely medical basis, such as today, but that, in addition to a medical diagnosis, the health care message should also be based on and have an assessment of the functioning of the sick worker. The majority of the Committee wanted to clarify this in the legal text. We have also mentioned that the proposed organisation grant for enterprises of NOK 250 should be considered increased to cover the real costs incurred by the employer in facilitating this. Furthermore, it is positive that the position we are dealing with today provides a basis for covering the costs of sick pay during the employer’s period when the cause of sick leave is related to pregnancy and relocating to other jobs at work is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e417	The intention agreement has called for some legislative changes, which the Government has followed up on the proposition here. Reduction of sick leave is one of the major challenges facing us in today's society. The objectives of the IA are ambitious and, in order to succeed in this task, it is necessary for both the social partners and public authorities to each contribute in their own way to supporting the basic principles on which the agreement is based. There is a broad consensus that measures to prevent sick leave and disease-related exclusion should be anchored in the labour market and that it is important to stress the importance of cooperation between workers and employers. In order to facilitate effective follow-up at the workplace, it is proposed that the worker contribute information on his own functioning and cooperate on appropriate measures. Such participation will have an impact on the right to sickness benefits. The employer’s obligation to organise the work is set out in the Working Environment Act. The Ministry of Labour and Administration will assess the need for further clarification and clarification in the law. I note that the Committee is also concerned that it is important for the employer to follow up by facilitating in line with the information on functioning. In the proposal, it is proposed that the employer should be able to ask the treating physician to provide an explanation of the duties which the worker can perform despite the disability. The Committee has proposed that the physician carry out an assessment of the employee’s function in the event of an appeal, regardless of whether an employer’s request exists. The Committee's proposal is based on the opinions of the social partners, and I take note of the change. With regard to the proposal for reimbursement of sick pay during the employer's period when sick leave is related to pregnancy and resettlement is not possible, I note that there is a broad consensus on this. In its proposal for a decision, B, the Stortinget Government is asking the Government to consider increasing the facilitation grant in addition to the proposed NOK 250. The Memorandum of Understanding decided to increase the intra-corporate recycling framework. In this proposition, the Ministry has proposed the introduction of a regulatory body to provide an organisation grant. The draft regulation has been consulted. The main content of the proposal, as mentioned in the proposal, was that the facilitation grant may be provided at NOK 250 per year. Day for a maximum period of 24 weeks. The Hearing Officers were very positive about the organisation of organising grants, but considered, among other things, that: the rate was too low and the period of benefit was too short. The Ministry will therefore consider a higher maximum rate, as indicated by the Committee’s signals, and quickly come back to this. The aim is also to extend the grant period to 36 weeks. The facilitation grant shall be available both during the notification and as a precautionary measure. I am pleased that the Committee has given priority to this matter. It has been important to me that the changes in the laws required by the Memorandum of Understanding can come into force at the foreseen times. The process of cooperative agreements between the social security system and inclusive work activities is now well under way. I am impressed by the efforts and cooperation shown by the parties in this important process, and look forward with great optimism to further development. To the representative, Mr Olsen: I think this must be due to a misunderstanding about the facts, because it is per. now employed 160 in relation to the work to be done and employment is still in progress for the realisation of the Memorandum of Understanding. I would also like to mention that the first contract of intent was concluded on 21 January, and I myself was present. In other words, the agreement has worked for just under two months. The first agreements have now also been concluded between enterprises and the social security system. Per. So on March 5, 155 contracts have been concluded involving 42,225 employees, and another 416 companies are ready to enter into contracts in the near future. The employment centre of the social security centre is established in all counties and the recruitment is as mentioned in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e448	We have also had a debate earlier in this Chamber on the need for new jobs in the social security system as a result of the Memorandum of Understanding, and we have operated with a need of 600 new posts. We had that debate in connection with the treatment of the State budget for this year. I understand that the government is now ready to require 600 new jobs in the social security system, but that this is a different phase in of these jobs than the government provided. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Can the Council of State now confirm to Odelstinget that she is firmly committed to the need for 600 new posts and that these should be phased in as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e455	It has been assumed that 600 new posts are needed for the new follow-up service. It's also quite right that they added 187.5 million. kr in the budget for this year – subject to my right to remember – and that this is a later phase-in, among others. because, at that time, the social security system was unable to accept all of them from 1 January onwards. So it's a later phase-in, and there's a recruitment going on. It's already employed 160, so it's going on too full.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e461	A little bit in the extension of the previous question: As far as new employment in the social security system is concerned, as far as I know, the agreement has been reached with 155 companies. Then you have 400 on the other stairs. This means that you have approx. 600, which would be equivalent to one year's work in the social security fund per. an undertaking which has subscribed to this agreement. Then you can make some comments about it, but I won't. I should also like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions: Is it not reasonable, given that this is a temporary agreement of intent, to turn as many of these positions as possible into project positions in the social security system? Or does the Minister for Social Affairs think that it is good practice and good policy to raise the number of employees in the social security system by 600 years of work without considering the consequences of this if – and now I am talking about – this agreement would not work after the intention? So to question number. two on the organisation grant. Government parties are the only parties that do not support the proposal to ask the Government to consider increasing the organisation grant in addition to the proposed NOK 250, so that the grant is more consistent with the real costs incurred by the organisation of each employer. This is precisely to safeguard the interests of both the sick worker, who is to enter the enterprise again, and the employer, as an incentive to receive the employee and to facilitate it. And when we also ask the Government to ‘assess’, I am a little surprised that the government parties are not involved in this proposal. Is it true that the Minister of Social Affairs believes that NOK 250 is a good enough sum for business organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e471	To the first question — whether or not these positions can be converted into involvement and thus become temporary — it is to say that an agreement is an agreement, and it has the social partners committed themselves to follow up. It shall be properly half-assessed in 2003. But I think this is an appropriate way of working anyway, because the point of reducing sick leave and getting more people doing more work back and having a greater degree of inclusion in work, will be a goal that I expect the parties to agree on no matter how the evaluation and final settlement might be. As regards question No: two, I think I stressed that the hearing bodies were very positive about the arrangements for organising grants, and that they among other things. felt that the rate was too low and that the period of benefit was too short. When I say that the ministry will assess the higher maximum rate, as the signals from the committee say, and quickly come back to this, I think it's the citizen that I'm positive about evaluating it and have taken the signals from the committee – and then the matter comes back here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e478	I also have questions about this with return to work and rehabilitation. First, a small question about instruments. The company's internal refurbishment scheme, BIA, was cut off at the end of the year as it was transferred from Aetat to the social security fund. Does the government want to do anything about it? There's pretty strong reactions to it. So to a special group that has trouble getting back to work. That's for those with mental problems. The last issue of Velferd says that the workline is only on paper for those with mental problems. It's so that of them with the diagnosis anxiety is just 18 pst. back to work five years after they have exercised their sickness allowance. Half are in bad shape. Psychiatric disorders have increased more than other diagnoses in the last four to five years. About 17 p.m. of the female beneficiaries of sickness benefits suffer from mental illness. Especially among young people, there is a huge increase. Replaced days of mental illness increased by 120 pst. for those under 30 years. For those under 40 years of age, mental illness is the most common cause of disability. 45 pst. of the new disability pensioners under 40 years of age have a mental illness as their main diagnosis. So researchers at the Institute of Labour Research say that this group in particular has huge problems getting back to work. Has the government looked at this problem in particular, or will you look at this now, as it focuses on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e485	I just want to stress first that there is a close and close cooperation between the departments under the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Social Affairs in the process of achieving the commitment agreement. For reasons of serious illness or other disability, the intentional agreement does not specifically distinguish whether the suffering is somatic or psychiatric. Regardless of suffering, the goal is to reduce sick leave and keep the whole human being in focus. That's the same thing about the degree of disability, where we also know that there are complex disorders. It is both psychological and somatic, but it can also be either – or. But for any reason, we focus heavily on both.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e492	The council did not respond at all, as far as I can see, to the question of salary subsidies at the company's internal reintroduction. The BIA wage subsidy gave companies the opportunity to get 50 pst. aid for compensation of employees to a person for up to six months and thereafter for 40 pst. of wages and salaries for up to six months, in order to be able to enjoy paid employment and to use residual working capacity or to try to return to work through such a scheme. There are strong reactions to this from several teams. I hope you look at this, which is perhaps as important as the one-time grant we have discussed in connection with the matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e497	As far as the salary subsidy is concerned, that is quite correct. I have also received many enquiries from both employees and companies that have been affected by this. When I did not reply, it was simply not because it is not an important matter, but it belongs to the Minister of Labour and Administration. But I am going to take it up in connection with the enquiries I have already received.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e502	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e505	Hopefully, by making the legal changes to implement the Memorandum of Understanding, the first step to reduce the high level of sick leave will have been taken. It has not been given that this agreement will lead to a fall in sick leave, but it is absolutely worth a try. The agreement is supported by both sides of industry, and positive instruments are used to reduce sick leave. Some attention has been paid to the fact that a majority of the Committee has stated in a comment that if the objective of reduced absence is not met, legislative restrictions must be considered. But there's no drama in this. For the government parties, this is exactly what we expressed in the budget. In addition, it should also be lacking whether there is no opening for restraints if sick leave continues to rise. At the same time, it is important to stress that the agreement needs time to work and that no one has to expect miracles in a short time. The assumption in the agreement on increased participation in the social security scheme has been followed up by a planned extension of the social security scheme to 600 posts. It is important that the agreement has the best framework conditions to achieve the objective, but at the same time it is not possible to hire 600 new people overnight. Enlargement can also be achieved not only through the allocation of additional funds but also through the efficiency and re-priorityisation of the social security system. It must also be a matter of course of gradual manning in line with agreements concluded. It is positive that the agreement provides for an increased emphasis on the employee's function, and a unanimous committee is in favour of a legislative amendment that tightens up the original legal text. Government parties note that both the NHO and the LO appear to be too low the organisation grant to encourage employers to facilitate workers with reduced working capacity and that the grant period is too short. However, the agreement states that the grant shall amount to a daily rate of approximately DKK 250 and that the grant period may be extended. This wording allows the Government to adjust the daily rate if it considers it necessary. In addition, the Minister of Social Affairs has now announced that the Government will assess this further. Finally, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the agreement has a positive effect on a group that some employers can today experience as an additional burden, a group that is productive in a double sense, namely young women. As you know, they may become pregnant and many become ill before the start of the leave period. The fact that public health is now to cover the cost of sick pay during the employer’s period if the disease is related to pregnancy will make the situation easier for both pregnant women and the holding. In particular, this is currently a problem in smaller and women-dominated enterprises. A majority of the Committee see this as a first step towards dealing with the absence of pregnant women in social security legislation other than through health absence legislation. Pregnancy is not a disease, nor should the resulting plagues be considered a disease. We depend on as much as possible at work, and we need more children. The circumstances then need to be arranged in such a way that employers do not refuse to hire those at risk of becoming pregnant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e530	The odelsting shall vote on case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e537	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party The President will propose that the vote be taken as an alternative between the vote and proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e554	The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e581	The proposal from the Workers' Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e722	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e732	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-19-lower.ana.ud2646e743	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
