ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e63	The representative of Raymond Robertsen shall apply for sick leave from 17 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative Åshild Karlstrøm Rundhaug is called to meet during the leave period.3. Åshild Karlstrøm Rundhaug is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Raymond Robertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e81	For those representatives who wonder if it will be an evening meeting, the President can tell you that it will be, and it can be quite far if you want to spend the time on the debates that all the committees have planned. It depends on the representatives themselves how long we're going to last tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e95	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e106	I would like to start this article with a poem by Hans Børli called ‘there is’: ‘There are times when all words are grey; because the grief is a vision of the harvest: a viscous silky fronds stuck in the ice on one o'clock. There are times when everyone words are small; then happiness is a spring vision: a sung artist in a dripping dog who say along a straw.’ We are lucky to live in a country like Norway, which is so rich in natural resources. One of the most important resources is nature, which gives all opportunities for natural experiences and recreation. The value of walking in nature, experiencing animal and plant life, experiencing silence and tranquillity cannot be measured in crowns and ears. It can only be measured in higher quality of life for the individual. We need something to live for, not just something to live off. Giving people a good opportunity to do outdoors is really giving people something to live for. In addition, outdoor life is preventive health work in practice. It is also a low-threshold option, i.e. everyone can participate in open-air activities if the conditions are set. I also believe that clean and fresh nature where people can relax and enjoy peace and quiet becomes one of the benefits of the future. For many, outdoor life is a bag on your back and long trips in the mountains. That's what gives relaxation and recreation. But for others, it's hunting and fishing. For some, there's a bike ride in the field. Others prefer the beach in summer or snowboarding in winter. We're all different, we all have different needs, and we have to make sure that anyone who wants to do it can be as much out in nature as possible. I am pleased that a unanimous committee through words expresses the importance of investing in outdoor life, even though part of the parties separate layers when there are concrete proposals. I'll come back to that. For the Workers' Party, the right of all persons and the free movement are important and a fundamental support in the open air. The problem is that the examples of the curtailment and weakening of all-man rights are too many. Then it no longer serves only with fine words and good intentions. In that case, we must be careful not to take decisions which take care of the public's interests. The development of beach sonals is a good example in an area where the rights of all people are still weakened. The recent report of the National Audit Office, which was transmitted to the Stortinget, shows that from 1982 to 1999, more than 8,100 exemptions from the ban on construction have been granted in strandsona. This applies to new buildings and replacement buildings. Then it's completely incomprehensible to me that the bourgeois majority is just bothering to ask the government to come back to the Storting with a briefing on the situation. The information we already have is, in my view, more than enough to see that there is a need to tighten up the law on planning and building. Besides, it's just taking a trip along the coast to see how the free movement is constantly being weakened. Therefore, the majority’s lack of willingness to do something about exemption practices cannot be seen in any other way than to want to weaken the rights of all persons, as the majority also opposes making clear decisions in favour of the free movement of the 25-metre belt in the coastal zone. Here, too, the examples of fences that prevent free movement should be enough for the Storting to have a basis for making decisions now. Outdoor life is, as I've been told, health prevention and provides many of us with increased quality of life. And not least, everyone who experiences the value of outdoor life also sees the value of protecting our environment. The goal must be that as much as possible take part in the joys of outdoor life. We therefore have a responsibility to motivate and facilitate it. The Committee has also been involved in its work on the message. I would like to highlight in particular the Committee's reference to the importance of motivating children and young people to use nature. It is important for them to become healthier and healthier, but also for them to become active outdoor people as adults. I'm absolutely sure that children who learn to like nature, to be out in nature from their small state, become nature savers for the future. I'm startled by several studies that show that children down to the age of 9-10 have muscle and skeletal disorders or other diseases because they're sitting too quietly inside. That's when the alarm bells should ring. If we're going to be able to get more children and young people into nature, we're going to have to do it in many different ways. Natural kindergartens and natural schools are good examples. We have to get more of these, and we should have them in most of the municipalities in our country. It is regrettable that the majority does not want to commit to more than good intentions in this area. We also have to give children the opportunity to experience nature in leisure. Therefore, we need to make sure that we have green areas in the residential areas to a greater extent than now. We have to give the children a hundred meters forest, too, in reality, not just in the books about Ole Brumm. Greater emphasis should also be placed on the areas of schools and kindergartens that can be used for this purpose. I also want to beat a blow for children's free play. Leave a few trees in which the children can climb – even in residential areas. Let's leave some green areas where the kids can play and cut. Let children and young people run outdoors on their premises. A majority of the Committee, that is to say all except the Advance Party, wants a national initiative to free up green areas. The same majority also say that more activity and education are desirable in line with the framework, as is done for example. at Hamar and Lundswagen natural schools and in the natural children's gardens. But it's just the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that make it clear that more economic instruments are needed to achieve this. Many young people want tension and to make boundaries. Young people’s open-air life therefore has a different content than traditional open-air life. I think we need to be positive that young people are using new outdoor activities, whether it's climbing, rafting, cycling or similar. It is our task to facilitate such activities in a sustainable way. The Storting message from the government Stoltenberg suggests that 16- and 17-year-olds get free fishing with handcuffs. Only SV support this in addition to us. I am absolutely sure that this had led to more young people experiencing the joy of hunting and fishing. I find it sad that the majority does not strike a blow on this point either for children and young people to be able to live outdoors, but rather to stand on the side of the landowners. We are constantly experiencing pressure in fields near our cities. For this reason, together with the Workers' Party, SV has proposed that a separate law be created to better take care of these important areas. It is important that we see it as a national responsibility that all those living in cities, and especially in Oslo, have good access to recreational areas and beautiful natural pearls, such as Oslomarka. We don't want Oslomarka to be eaten up bit by bit. We want, as I said, everyone should have the opportunity to be out in nature. This applies, for example: The elderly, and this may be especially true for disabled people, where we have a long way to go in many places, because the disabled are a group that often does not have as good access to natural experiences as the rest of us. The entire Committee supports the setting up of a rapid-working sample to look at how to better facilitate people with disabilities. I want to take this opportunity to give praise to the outdoor organisations and everyone else who spends countless hours on leisure time working for the outdoors. I would also like to commend the outdoor organisations for the great contribution they have had in the preparation of this big message. It says respect. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are of the opinion that the Government should come back with a separate case concerning the strengthening of the outdoor organisations financially, and other outdoor activities, inter alia. by increasing the allocation of funds – in addition to and not as a substitute for the money currently transferred through the Ministry of the Environment’s budget. As rapporteur of the case, I wish we had succeeded in reaching more agreement on such an important matter. I had also really believed that when we started working with this message. I was very optimistic. The Bondevik II administration was known as the message promoted by the Stoltenberg administration, located in the Stortinget. Minister for the Environment Børge Brende spoke very positively about several of the proposals that were there. I therefore took it as a matter of fact that the government parties here in Stortinget were behind their own government. It would turn out in many ways not to be the case. On the contrary, they choose to defeat their own government on several important points. That's what I think is alarming, and I think it's surprising, because it hasn't lacked any positive signals along the way. For example, I can. mentioned the chairman of the committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, his opinion in the evening post on 6 November last year, where, in the context of exemption practices from the building ban in the beach zone, he said: ‘This shows that we need a tightening, so that valuable beach areas are not lost’. Nor has Minister for the Environment Børge Brende been detained in his opinions. In a speech at the Nordic Conference on Outdoor Life in January this year, the Environment Minister said that Regeringa, among others. would: ‘To review and make necessary changes to the Outdoors Act in order to clarify and strengthen the rights of all persons, including: propose a new rule in the Outdoor Law on movement in the coastal zone where the distance between sea and cabins is more than 25 metres’. I could have drawn up many more examples from this speech and other statements by the Minister for the Environment, which were intended to indicate that the government parties were willing to strike a blow to the outdoors and to the public's rights and interests. It's a shame it doesn't seem to be like this, especially for the hundreds of thousands who use our nature. I also think it is a rather unsustainable situation for – in this case – the work of the Energy and Environment Committee not to know whether the government parties are behind their own government and their own environmental protection minister. I hope the example of working with the outdoor message is an exception. Otherwise there's still some hours until we're going to vote, and nothing would have pleased me more than if it could become majority for more than that as it per. Now it's on. And the mountain-wet rule that says, "It's no shame to turn," also applies here. It must be possible to talk together beyond the day. There should be a basis for increased attention to outdoor life. The message also mentions a number of other proposals on which there is a broad consensus, and I assume that the Government will work actively to implement them, so that our work on this matter is nevertheless a step forward on «A road to higher quality of life». Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Labour Party with other parties in the vote, and also recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e181	The representative has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e186	It was the government of Stoltenberg, where the representative of Brustad was a prominent and capable member, who made the outdoor announcement. It is therefore understandable that she would like to see all the proposals in the communication adopted. When the government parties do not follow up the proposals on a few points, it demonstrates the difference between the Workers' Party and the parties that form the Cooperation Government. Not many countries in the world have as much nature and opportunities to travel in mountains and forests as Norway. There's a lot of possibilities, and we're doing very well that way. The representative Brustad only focuses on the fact that in some cases it has become more difficult to travel everywhere because of landowner restrictions. The question Brustad should ask is: is this such a major problem that we are once again going to set up departments in the capital to create more laws, more regulations and more guidelines, with the risk of increasing the level of conflict between users of nature and landowners who believe that they also have requirements for a certain private zone around their home? The representative, Brustad, took this up with the dispensations. Then it's important to look at the 8,100 cases. What was that about? I think the feedback we received the other day – which was also received by the representative Brustad – was quite reassuring, where it was said that there were many minor changes that were considered to be a full exemption. Obviously, we don't have to exaggerate this problem, although it's true that a few places are some fences that are set up and something that makes it difficult to travel. I'm against it. But we can't shoot sparrows with guns. We must not now start work on a new regulation, a new legislation, which only helps to increase the level of conflict around an otherwise very good message about all the benefits of outdoor life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e195	Let me first thank you for the praise from the representative of Onarheim. I think the representative of Onarheim is undermining the problem, for example. with the developments we see in the beach zone. When we find in an area where we actually have construction bans, that there are over 8 000 exemptions in a very short time, that means that the public's rights to travel along our pearls, along large parts of the coast from the Swedish border and down to Agder, are hindered by most people. So the representative of Onarheim says that we must not now initiate investigations of laws that will increase the level of conflict. This is based on the fact that there is no level of conflict per person. today. That's it. What the civil parties want is for the government to follow up on the situation, if necessary make new investigations, and then come back to the Stortinget. I mean, we know enough. We have documentation from the Riksrevision. We can just take a trip out to Oslofjorden or elsewhere and see what it looks like. And then it's not just talking about that there's replaced some window panes on some cabins, or similar. No, it is increasingly being built all the way down on the shores of cabins, houses, fences, fences, fists and whatever it may be, which prevent people from moving freely. Then we get to the basic question, because it no longer lasts with fine party speeches. If one believes that it is necessary to guarantee the public's right to move freely in the forest, to the mountains, in green areas and in the coastal zone, a choice must be made. I record that the Right, as the Right often does, lands on the landowners' side and not on public rights. But then a jam says it also in the parties, and don't say one thing and do something else in practice. Here, there's a total lack of consistency between what the Right says, and what the Right does in practice. I think we know more than enough to now make decisions that make the free movement real, because it's not in our beach zones today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e206	The tourism industry is doubtful about being deprived of the possibility of further investment in winter tourism after the Minister for the Environment postponed the implementation of the amendment to the Motor Travel Act, so that the tourism industry does not have the opportunity to apply for business with tourists even outside the regular loops. This was a question that the Labour Party representative Eva M. Nielsen raised on 30 January in the Questionnaire. Other employee party representatives have also raised questions about the use of snowmobiles, and I would like to refer to Torny Pedersen, who submitted this written question in January: ‘The Minister for the Environment has stopped the efforts of the Stoltenberg Government to find sensible solutions and make snowmobile driving regulations more consistent with developments in today’s society. Twice in the last period, Stortinget has asked for a change in snowmobile driving regulations. Among other things, Stortinget points out that municipalities wishing to set up their own loops for snowmobiles should be able to do so.’ – Then she comes up with a question to the Minister for the Environment. Since there are different and unclear signals from the Workers' Party also in this matter, can the representative Brustad explain what is the actual view of the Workers' Party? Or is it that you've also used the partisan in this case to sort out your own sequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e220	Now the Workers' Party does not have the habit of using partisan, nor has it happened in this case. I believe that one of the most important qualities of outdoor life and being in nature is that you get silence, that it's calm, and that you have time to think and relax. And as I said in my main post, I think it's one of the future's graces. This does not mean that the Workers' Party is opposed to scooter driving, but that means that we support State Council Børge Brende's proposal to complete the trials that are in the eight municipalities, which are signalled. I want to stress that it is important that these trials become real, and then we get to evaluate these before we decide what to do next. That's our point of view, and we're satisfied with that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e227	I would first like to thank the case manager for a well-worked job. I don't think we can place the responsibility on her because it doesn't seem to be a positive result. I very much agree with the analysis made by the case leader here, that the government party in Stortinget has not followed up the signals given by the Environment Minister in various contexts with natural and outdoor movements. My challenge to the case leader is in an area where SV and the Labour Party often separate layers, where the Labour Party in a way has the capacity to increase the volume of energy consumption, while SV tries to think: How can you save energy? How can a saved area be saved? How can a system ensure that energy policy does not undermine open-air policy? That's where the Working Party jumps off the load. It may be because they have a lot of energy projects that they want to realize. But what SV lacks is that one tries to see that everything is related to everything, as a well-known party colleague of the case spokesperson has said. The building of large cabins requires more power. The fact that one does not streamline planning and building laws also means that one gets a higher energy consumption and thus also weakens outdoor interests. I simply have to ask: what is it that does not make the Labour Party bigger the proposal no. 16 and 18, from SV, which is just concerned with the soundness of environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e238	Let me also give praise back to, among other things. SV for constructive cooperation. On the important issue raised here by the representative of Langeland about energy policy, and in this context related to outdoor life and cabin construction: the fact that we do not vote in favour of these two proposals referred to by the representative here does not mean that we are against the idea that we should take that debate, but we believe that this debate belongs better in other contexts. There is an important debate that SV and the representative Langeland are travelling around energy use in some very large cabins, or houses, as it might look like, and how much energy it takes. There is a debate that I think is right to take, but we have thought it has not been right to take it in this context. We should continue that discussion, and that is the Workers' Party open to do, but we have, as I said, thought that we should do it in a different context than in connection with this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e245	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e249	The open-air message we are dealing with today has the sub-title ‘A way to higher quality of life’. That's exactly what outdoor life is all about for us in Norway. We are given the opportunity to enjoy amazing nature for recreation and experience. But it also gives us knowledge and humility for the ecological cycles in nature. For our children, this is an important part of growing up in this country, because nature is so close to us and because we have established legislation that makes this possible. To a far greater extent than in many other countries, proximity to nature is a common value that is an important part of being Norwegian and a natural part of our children's growth. And outdoor life is so much. That's why it's important that we give people the opportunity to exercise their outdoor activity on their own assumptions. This applies both to outdoor activities and to physical assumptions. This implies that both disabled and mountain hikers with maps and compasses, far from path and cabin, must be given the opportunity to cultivate their outdoor life. The need for extreme expansion in some and the cuddly walk on planned roads is another dimension that needs to be taken care of. The Committee agrees on a great deal, and in particular on the emphasis being placed on the simple outdoor life that gives new forces and often has a health-threatening effect. Even though there may have been a big political disagreement about the open-air message, I would argue that that is not right. The Committee strongly agrees on the open-air policy, where the practice of open-air life comes into line with the fundamental interests of the landowner, in particular those of the coastal zone, that the disagreement becomes visible. The Outdoors Act, which regulates outdoor travel, also along the beaches, and all-man rights, is an important premise for the free Norwegian outdoors, which is unique in relation to many other countries and which we must ensure and take care of. The open-air life of Norway is exercised in a fine balance between people’s accountability to other people’s property and the limitations of ownership, which are regulated, inter alia. in the Outdoor Act. I think most people have respect for and mutual is their responsibility and their liberality consciously. Of course, it's an exception, but we can't arrange the legislation so that the exceptions are governing, and not the reasonables of ordinary people. Therefore, it is very important that we as legislators are aware of this and not introduce new conflict-making measures that can only serve to destroy the mutual understanding of general traffic, which we all have in this country. That is why our policy in this area must be anti-conflict and not conflict-making. Everyone's gonna be worth it. In particular, there are two proposals that have received considerable attention in the debate: the proposal for free movement rights in the coastal zone and the proposal for a reduction in municipal dispensation access from today's building ban in the 100-metre area of the coastal zone. It is claimed that the Right goes on the scandals against the Minister of Environmental Protection in this matter in order to protect property rights and old privileges, as it is said. Both parts, of course, are wrong and fall on their own unfairness. The government parties show their right me, I think Sylvia Brustad has said. Yeah, that's right. Also protecting private property rights and respecting the traditions and historical values associated with this, I think the Workers' Party would have stood by – to be more conscious. During the whole process of the message, I have not received a single demand from individuals to support the Workers' Party's and SV's far-reaching proposal for movement in the 25-metre belt – however, a storm from people who respond to this on the basis of their reasonableness. The outdoor message was promoted by the Workers' Party Government. Because the current government is also committed to safeguarding the interests of the open air by ensuring universal access and public access to natural areas and the coastal zone, the communication was not drawn when the Cooperative Government took over last autumn. This does not mean, however, that the current government parties agree absolutely with all that is stated in the notification. In addition to emphasising the importance of outdoor life as an important value for recreation and experiences and for health prevention, the Right is also committed to defending private property rights – not to protecting old privileges, as claimed, but because private property rights are often a prerequisite for sound management. The ownership of natural areas is not reserved for a privileged elite. In Norway, there are almost 360 000 cabins and summerhouses. Holidaying in a cottage or summer house where you can be in the vicinity of nature is a significant quality of outdoor life in Norway. This is also very often the very starting point for outdoor activities, and not least for children and the elderly. Unfortunately, it seems that the previous government forgot when it wrote the message. The housing and owner-occupancy interests are not mentioned, at least not in positive order. We need private owners who have a personal interest in managing their property in a long-term perspective, so that the values are kept in claim and can be left to the next generation in at least as good condition as today. This is a pleasure for yourself and for people who pass by. We can only see how things went ashore that abolished private property rights. Here, not exactly natural values were managed in a natural and environmentally friendly way, to say it carefully. Even in our own country there are unfortunately many examples that when the government has taken over the administration of an area, it has not been done as well as under private ownership, simply because the public does not want and can feel the same personal responsibility as one who manages its own property. Therefore, it is alarming that the government of Stoltenberg hardly mentioned private property rights in a word when it wrote its outdoor message. This will be corrected by the current government parties. Today's construction ban in areas less than 100 metres from the beach edge is such an intervention in private property that needs to be managed with discretion and wisdom. Fortunately, municipalities have the right to grant exemptions from the general construction ban if they believe that they are allowed to build on their own land and do not have a serious conflict with the free movement of the public. This is a decision The right opinion needs to be taken locally, based on local knowledge of the consequences of an exemption from the construction ban. The construction ban includes a wide range of cases, ranging from large new buildings to minor changes to an existing building. Of course, it is not that changing windows or expanding the cabin with a room or two extras conflicts with the free movement. We have actually confirmed this from the department. And there were these dispensations Sylvia Brustad was concerned about. In Oslo and along the south coast, measures that dominate are reported by the ministry. That's why we believe that this is a practice we can continue with, to the mutual delight of this part of our building culture being maintained. Therefore, the right does not want further tightening of the access of municipalities to grant exemptions from the construction ban. It is clearly managed at reasonable discretion. Another suggestion in the open-air message Right is critical to, is to give general access to travel in the beach zone where the distance from the sea to the nearest house or cabin is at least 25 metres. There is already free movement along the shore edge of the outland, such as svaberg, forest star etc. But many will feel threatened by privacy if there is access to free movement through one's own garden or in a refurbished area. It would be unreasonable for strangers to walk freely — even ri — through one’s garden. I actually think that most people don't want such a right either, based on fundamental respect for privacy. Today, there are few conflicts between the concerns of the landowners and the public's desire for free movement. In most places this is solved by taking account of each other. Increased legislation in this area will therefore only create unnecessary conflicts where there are today long traditions to adapt in a considerate way. The consequences of such a legislative change have also been reported very poorly. The whole idea is described on half a page in a 135 - page document. Therefore, it is also alarming that the Workers' Party, together with SV, chooses to go even further in its proposal than the one described in the message. We note that there is no majority for any proposals related to this and will therefore request that the proposals No. 9 and 10, from the Right and Christian People's Party, is transformed into a transmission proposal – with the necessary correction in the introductory wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e291	The representative, Mr Halleraker, did not address another proposal to which the Right co-sponsored. I'm thinking of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox Does that mean that others will address that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e294	Proposals Nos. 9 and 10 have been converted into transmission proposals, and proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party, is hereby taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e301	Øyvind Halleraker has then taken up the proposal he referred to and made the proposals No. 9 and 10 on transmission proposals. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e306	The right – with State Councillor Børge Brende at the head – has announced a new course in environmental policy. Prime Minister Bondevik says that environmental policy and district policy are examples of areas where you can have a majority with the Workers' Party or with SV. In this case one had an opportunity to do so, for the previous government, the government of Stoltenberg, provided a message that was bragged by the environmental movement, and especially by the outdoor organisations. They boasted much of the content of the message, but also that there had been a good process in the preparation of it. What then does the Right and Christian Party choose to do? Yes, on page 5 of the setting they say: «These members further point to St.meld. No 39 Outdoor activities. [[2000-2001]] A road to higher quality of life was developed by the government of Stoltenberg. The Co-operation Board shall base its policy on the Sem declaration.’;» This can in itself be said to be okay and reliable. But it's alarming, because common practice is that it's the message, along with the setting and debate and the decisions that are being made, that add the further leadership to a government policy. But with this note, it can almost seem as if the Right Party and the Christian People's Party dissociate – two hands in relation to – the message. And that's going to be confusing at best. If the Bondevik administration had been horribly disagreed at first, it would have pulled the whole message. It didn't. But then it seems that the members of the Right and Christian People's Party on the Energy and Environment Committee think it should have done so anyway. That is why I would strongly urge the Right to seize the opportunity that today's debate offers, since it is the debate and the decisions that ultimately decide, to meet the outdoors and to say that, of course, it is the message together with the vote, the debate and the decisions that will form the basis for the government's policy, and that we do not reject the starting point for the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e320	Let me first thank you for the brilliance of our Environment Minister. He's honestly deserved that. He's doing an excellent job for environmental protection in Norway. It is not as the representative Synnøve Konglevoll suggests that the Right does not accept the environmental and nature protection policy contained in the outdoor communication. As I said in my post, where this message comes into support of property and land ownership interests that are claimed and historically and traditionally conditional in this country, we must have a different opinion than that written by the Workers' Party. It is known that the Workers' Party has never set the private property right particularly high – nor in this context. Therefore, I would say that this is not about open-air policy or environmental protection. This is about the Workers' Party's attack on ownership in Norway. I actually think I'm going to venture to say that what we have to call a modern Workers' Party, here is powerful in spite of people's perception. I want to refute that we do not have a good environmental policy. We have that absolutely when we join large parts of this message. But, as I said, where it makes unreasonable claims to ownership, we have to make a reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e331	I have listened with interest to Mr Halleraker's posts and noted in particular what he said about the proposal for a new 25-metre rule in the beach zone. I have recorded that unfortunately this is bad with what appears in the setting. A number of Right-People, both inside and outside this house, have given clear notice that an introduction of such a new rule will not be relevant. In addition, the right has tried countless times from this pulpit to present the party as the best defender of private property, and it was confirmed by the Halleraker representative here today. Despite this, the right behind the motion for a resolution No. 10, which just asked the Government to issue such a proposal. I and many people with me have great problems understanding what the Right really means about this. In this case, there is obviously a big difference between life and learning in the party. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Halleraker, to explain what he really thinks about the 25-metre rule, and at the same time to ask for a reasonable explanation as to why the Right does not support proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party, if the Right is really against such a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e340	I think it is nice of the representative of Vaksdal to draw out that the Right has the tradition of defending private property in this room. That is right, and we are pleased to note that we often agree with the Progress Party on that, as well as with other parties. The representative, Mr Vaksdal, asks how we can propose an investigation of the 25-meter rule, and why we do not vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to put this matter to the vote. There's two reasons for that. Firstly, the representative will have noticed that we are working with another government party in this context, and we believe it is right in this matter to also meet other interests and also our cooperation partners. We believe that this is too poorly described in the message with regard to appropriate movement in the 25-metre belt, which can be considered to be negligible. That is why we want this matter further investigated by the Government. But there must be no doubt that the Right will never be in favour of any proposal that would involve an intervention in developed areas and in the ownership and historical tradition of landowners in this 25-meter belt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e347	SV has been in and around this Minister for the Environment as a person who seems to want to put environmental protection issues properly on the agenda. We have supported the Government in not increasing its ability to run snowmobiles everywhere. We have actually supported the Government and cut for multiples in that area. We were ready to support the government in this matter too, because we listened to what the Environment Minister said at the Nordic Conference on Outdoor Policy on 28 January. There he said that action was taken to ‘strengthen the building ban in the 100-meter belt’. He said that ‘I am intensifying both planning and dispensation practices in the coastal zone’. SV replied: OK, they're going to get multiples for it, and they're going to get multiples for anything that can bring environmental and outdoor interests in the right direction. So one feels that the majority of people go against what the Minister of Environmental Protection signaled at this conference. There's no way to understand it any other way. One cannot ignore the fact that one today is not involved in strengthening the building ban or in tightening up the planning and building practices. This is a direct quote from the Minister for the Environment. So Halleraker says he hasn't had any reaction to this with dispensation practices in the beach sona. Hasn't he read all the hearing aids you've received? Has he not read today's Evening Post, where Inger-Lise Skarstein quite clearly expresses disappointment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e356	Once again, it is nice that the qualities of the Minister of the Environment are drawn from the parties in this Chamber. He will have the floor later in this debate, and will be able to answer for himself in many areas that he wants to know. It falls on its own unreasonableness, as I also said in my post, when the SV and the Workers' Party are so unaccountable, and to me as a new representative it is alarming that it is possible to write something like this in an attitude to the Storting to which these parties have agreed. I really must say that I didn't think it was possible. And of course, that's totally wrong. I almost want to say it so that the representative Langeland comes with incorrect information. He should know better since he has finished reading these documents to which he refers, the Minister for the Environment's statement and talks at the Adult Box, which I was also present at, among others. Langeland, and I heard well what was said. He referred to what's in the open air message. I have also done so, but I have indicated that in the Right and Christian People's Party we have a more nuanced view than the message on these points. That is why this matter should now be resolved once and for all. There is no disagreement between the government parties here in Stortinget and the Minister for the Environment as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e369	Having heard the debate so far, I shall not promote the so-called qualities of the Minister of the Environment. I think that would be embarrassing for many in the Right to hear about. The possibility and access to natural experiences are important for people's natural understanding and environmental exposure. In our view, today's outdoor life works mainly well; it's also well integrated among the population and little conflict. In most cases there is no conflict between the public's desire for free movement and the protection of the ownership of landowners. Publicity also has a responsibility to move in a considerate way, both towards the environment and towards landowners and rightholders. Landowners, for their part, have a responsibility to ensure that no obstacles are placed in the way of natural free movement. Both landowners and the public share a shared responsibility for combating conflicts and, in our view, conflicts should be resolved locally and in accordance with national laws and regulations and local adaptations. Private ownership is the best way to ensure the proper management of natural areas. At the same time, it is important to ensure access to the free movement of land and to ensure access to natural areas, as is traditional here to land. Private owners of land have clearly personal interests in managing their properties in a long-term perspective, so that values are maintained throughout their lives and can be left to the next generation in at least as good a condition as before. A number of coastal municipalities have come up with good and voluntary solutions to ensure universal access. Therefore, we believe that it is important to work to ensure that there is sufficient beach area available to the public, without weakening private property rights. The Progress Party has a great deal of respect for private property rights, and under no circumstances will we go in to force the 25-metre rule into the beach zone, as Mr Børge Brende and the Government wish. In our view, it will help to weaken private property, to reduce the value of the properties, to greatly reduce the potential for use on own property, and not least to lead to conflict in areas where there has been no conflict in the past. Often it is presented as if owners of beach properties are doing their own good when they build boathouses, cabins, houses or brews on their own property. Almost everyone who builds in the beach zone has actually received official permission from local authorities. The fact that in some cases it is illegal construction is correct, but it must not result in the law being tightened up so that local authorities along our long-distance coastline can no longer provide and provide for lawful construction in the coastal zone. Many owners of beach properties now feel that a political majority, authorities and bureaucrats undermine their rights, thereby interfering with the ability of ordinary families to plan their lives and freely use their homes, gardens and huts. We therefore propose to refrain from proposing a new rule in the Outdoor Act that where the distance from the cabin or house is at least 25 meters, the public can travel. Norway is a long-distance country with scattered settlements and with great variation in the building pressure along the shoreline. Therefore, in our view, cabin and dwelling construction needs to be adapted locally without a rigid, central law, which is the 100-metre construction ban. The 100-meter ban is really a huge seizure of property, without any kind of compensation. We are of the opinion that the municipalities themselves have to decide where to build cabins and houses in the beach zone. That is why we think the ban on building in the 100-metre belt is very unfortunate and should be lifted, as we also propose. Outdoor life is something that stands high in the course of the Norwegian people. Motorised outdoors have long coastal traditions for boaters. Some use a boat with an engine also on inland water, on lakes, and many use a car to drive to areas that are suitable for outdoor life. The Progress Party wants an open-air policy that balances different considerations and also provides spaces for motorised open-air life using snowmobiles. Snowmobiles are an enrichment for many people and give them good natural and outdoor experiences. We are of the opinion that the use of snowmobiles should be subject to sensible regulations that allow use to take place without creating problems for others or creating irresponsible pressures on nature. Today's very restrictive snowmobile policy leads to increasing illegal use of snowmobiles. Since it is fully lawful to buy snowmobiles, authorities should also make much more provision to facilitate the use of snowmobiles. Therefore, it was with great disappointment that we recorded that the Minister for the Environment stopped the changes in the rules that were announced by the Workers' Party Government, and that the Workers' Party did not follow up what the Stoltenberg Government announced. I understand that the snowmobile people today are listed above the Right and Workers' Party. They have good reason for that. The organised snowmobile people in Norway do not want a situation of conflict with other interest groups. Furthermore, other groups should not have exclusive rights over the whole of nature and work unilaterally against those who want a motorised free-air life. Efforts should be made to find solutions that all can live with. We have large enough natural areas to take off, so it really shouldn't be a problem if it was political will for it, which unfortunately isn't. It should also be an objective to become a nationwide loop network where one can travel on snowmobiles in properly regulated forms. For example, Sweden and Finland have succeeded in its liberal snowmobile policy, primarily because of the fact that legal driving takes place in a highly well-organised system, where municipalities and snowmobile clubs jointly solve the challenges. In addition, it is important that a form of regulation is found that is generally accepted by the population. In Norway, there has become a fundamental problem that there is a significant gap between the legal regulations to which snowmobile traffic is subject and the general legal perception. Conditions come easily out of control in a situation in which many believe that public regulation is unreasonable. The Progress Party wants to open up the possibility for each municipality to set up its own specially marked snowmobile loops. Of course, these loops need to be set up in cooperation with the individual landowner. We also believe that it should be possible to open up motor traffic on forest roads and on icy watercourses where it is possible to drive a boat during the summer. We in the Progress Party believe that municipal self-determination regarding the use of snowmobiles is a good example of how municipalities can contribute to local involvement. We believe that the Government should facilitate the conditions as soon as possible for municipalities to have greater control over their own land, where private property rights are of course to be respected. In the future, it will be important to facilitate the mobility of people with disabilities in nature. That's why we're happy to set up a working group to look at these issues, and I'm excited about the results that come out of that work. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e414	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e419	The progress party says they're the party for most people. There are many examples of the fact that the Progress Party is, on the contrary, a party for the richest, and the outdoor policy is such an example. For here it is consistently that what takes up the Advance Party is the consideration of private property rights and the interests of landowners. For the Progress Party, the rights are for those who can use between 8 and 10 million. kr to buy an attractive beach plot in the South, more important than that most people should have free movement. For the Progress Party, it is more important that landowners should be able to take tens of thousands of dollars — perhaps more — to rent out fishing and hunting rights. In the Advancement Party you are most concerned about those who have a house or a cabin, and weigh over their property. Therefore, you do not want to open up increased traffic for people on bicycles. And I have to say that when the Progress Party – otherwise together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – writes that "the right to property and the right to have an area where one in freedom, without traffic, can enjoy outdoor life in its own land is essential to many people", yes, they are almost touching in their minds. But to say that it's for most people, you can't do that. Another important issue for the Progress Party is to reduce public bureaucracy. Therefore, the Progress Party, like the Government Parties, cannot go in to change the Planning and Building Act in order to improve access to green neighbourhoods, so that they can be accommodated for children, the elderly and the disabled, so that they can have access to areas in their neighbourhood and operate outdoors in their daily lives. But in another area, the Progress Party is certainly not so concerned about reducing red tape anyway. We in the Workers' Party and SV believe that fishing with handcuffs should be done free of charge for young people up to the age of 18, thus raising the age limit from today's limit of 16 years. But the Progress Party will not be involved in this for the sake of the landowners. So the Progress Party probably understands that they don't have such a good case, so they're in favour of introducing a discount card for young people between 16 and 18 years of age. The question is, how can this be done without creating more bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e432	The representative of Konglevoll really points to what is the difference between the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. We want to defend the rights of the private owner of the land as enshrined in the Basic Law §104 and 105. That the Workers' Party really wants to weaken the rights of the private owner of the land, actually gets their point of view, but I see in this line that there is almost some sort of envy policy behind the views of the Workers' Party. If there's someone who has 8 to 10 million. I want to buy a house, a cabin, a car, a plane or a boat, they must be allowed to do so! We don't need to regulate exactly that kind of thing. This Easter I have been walking around a bit – I went skiing a lot and drove a lot of cars. What strikes me is that those who don't have houses or cabins in the districts, and who want to go out into nature, have to lodge in crowded campsites, because that's the outdoors they're offered. Everyone knows that in Norway it is almost impossible to get permission to build their own house or cabin. Not to mention that it has become an impossibility to take out plots on large properties. That is why we have a policy that means that what is available for the sale of cabins around Norway is gradually going at quite high prices. It should be a goal for the Workers' Party that as much as possible was allowed to use their properties to bring up cabins, so everyone was allowed to participate in the fine outdoor life that we have here to land. In the case of 16- and 18-year-olds, there should be some limit on buying such fishing licences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e443	I want to clarify what is actually the Progress Party's open-air policy, because now I listened to much of this post, and there was a very concentrated increase in motorised traffic. I then interpret it in such a way that an important point is to facilitate increased motorised movement in the open spaces, and thus also increase the organisation of noise and rabals – in order to say that. Then there's something I'm fooling about. There are four proposals from the Progress Party, and the Progress Party is not included in any other proposal. Two of the suggestions just come up with what I'm saying: motorized movement. This means that a very central element of the Progress Party's open-air policy is that there should be more running in the various open-air areas. The second thing I'm wondering about, is for the other two proposals that the Progress Party has. They're just going to sit around so you don't have to move on private property, and there's going to be more private property. There is one way to read the two suggestions. Thus, public access to outdoor activities should be reduced. If it is to limit access to the open air area, I wonder: What will then become the seventh and last open air policy? Finally, a number of Committee members have joined forces to strengthen the facilities for schools and kindergartens in order to be able to operate outdoors in the neighbourhood – this applies to green space and so on. This does not support the Progress Party either. Does it mean that a young person wants to grow up in the most natural way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e454	Basically, as I said in my post, we want an open-air policy as we have today. Of course, there are some changes we could have thought of. The removal of the building ban in the 100 meter belt in the beach zone is one of the things. The other thing we want is that there's going to be possibilities for using snowmobiles in regulated forms. We don't want a policy where there should be free driving with snowmobiles, but driving in regulated forms. And according to the proposal we have put forward, which is based on a document No. 8 proposals we made in the last period, it's up to the municipalities themselves to regulate these loops. The municipalities can also say that they don't want any bishops. We also accept that, because we are a democratic party that takes inward decisions that are being made. But we want to set things straight. Indeed, many municipalities want it, because it provides large incomes. It provides income in the form of tourism, in the form that there are people who want to use the loop network and the facilities that can be connected to the loop network. It'll also be an excellent way to get disabled people into nature. As pointed out in the message, it is a big problem. There's a job committee set up to look at it. Earlier, when there was a more liberal policy in that area, the disabled had the opportunity to get into nature in a straightforward way. Now it is presented by the representative Langeland as if all landowners in Norway were behind their fences and refused to go over their properties. That's not the case! The basic owners really accept a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e463	Very often, when we have debates on both outdoors and the environment, it is largely the same issues that remain when the representatives of the Progress Party have their say. But from our point of view, many of the same lines are also constantly recurring. We are not really getting any further, and that is because the Progress Party is probably standing still. I have a comment on the statement by the representative of the Progress Party and, to the extent, on their comments in the vote, and it is that they are far on the way because the Progress Party has a different reality from the majority. In particular, two points have been raised by Mr Korsberg. There are conflicts in the coastal areas related to both construction and traffic, where he says there are minor conflicts between different interests. I think you have to be in the Progress Party for not having recorded that those conflicts are actually very real, and that they are quite significant. That is why I am pleased that the large majority – at least in word – demonstrate that we have a reasonably common understanding of some of the issues associated with this. I want to ask Korsberg to substantiate the claim that this is relatively conflict free, because it doesn't at all match what I think most of us have perceived. So Korsberg says there are some people who have to find themselves living in campsites. It almost sounds a little poor. But I think there's actually a lot of people who thrive in campsites around, where they have their caravan and can drive around a little bit. The fact that it is impossible to build your own cabin does not at all match the construction activity of cabins in Norway. How can Korsberg prove that it is impossible to build a cabin in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e474	Let me first take the opportunity to give a last answer to Hallgeir H. Langeland, who asked if we want the kids to grow up on as much asphalt as possible. It must be a responsibility that the parents take to a great extent, but you register afterwards, with the low bet that is on the road budget, that there will be little asphalt left. But it gets to be a different thing. In the case of coastal zone problems and conflicts, it is clear that in some areas there is a greater degree of conflict. Around the inner Oslofjord and a little bit beyond, there are some conflicts. It says itself, because the amount of human beings down here is increasing quite sharply, and there won't be any more beach zones to share for people. In some places there are conflicts – that’s quite right. But when we have a debate and make decisions here today, it actually applies to the whole country. I come from an area that does not have those conflicts – from Troms. And I think I can say for North Norway that it's very little conflict to live and travel along the shoreline. That there are people who want to stay in campsites is quite right. All respect for them! I think they should be allowed to. But there are also some people who live in campsites because they do not have the opportunity to buy or build themselves a cabin at an affordable price, and that is what I am thinking of. And then I think of all the landowners who have large properties that really don't have any value because they can't sell land, either to people most or to their children in some cases. It's also a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e486	Let me first record the SV's suggestions – they're all about us. The other speakers have taken up the matter. Let me first thank nature, environmental and outdoor organisations and the Outdoor Councils who have really tried to contribute to the informed owner-interest service, but also to our knowledge, to ensure that we arrive at a result that could best serve the natural and outdoor interests, and, in the opinion of SV, thus also future and the interests of future generations. Today could have been a jubilee day – it should have been. It is possible that something is happening in this room today, as two of the proposals for the co-operation administration have been withdrawn and transferred to the Government. There may be a signal that an actual wants to get on a slightly tighter line than what you've done in the committee, and it looks like SV is expecting. This means that we still hope that more proposals than the SV’s proposal on increased organisation for the use of bicycles can get more. So it's the only proposal of 19 that gets a lot of people today, unless the co-operation government gets together and stands for the policy that, among other things, is. the Minister for Environmental Protection has preached. It is not to be concealed that SV has been very clear in its positive speech by the Minister for the Environment. That is why it was also expected to hear his contribution on 28 January of this year at the Nordic Conference on Outdoor Policy. I was there myself. This is where I need to clarify some of the misunderstandings of Mr Halleraker's right-wing representative. There was no misunderstanding in what the Minister for the Environment said: ‘I have in a letter to the National Audit Office just before Christmas... among others. set out the measures planned or already in place to strengthen the construction ban in the 100 metre belt.’;» In other words, ‘strengthen the construction ban’! And on the other hand, «Last, but not least, in a short time I will send to the municipalities, county councils and county officials along the coast a letter in which I inculcate both planning and dispensation practices in the coastal zone.» It is directly quoted from the Minister for the Environment's speech. Then you have to ask yourself, is this happening today? It could happen. There were many outdoor organizations present at this meeting, and they cheered and applauded. That was also done by this SV representative. Yes, in fact, I was told to the Minister for the Environment as well as to the Assembly that SV is ready to support any proposals that would strengthen the outdoor interests. It's easy for the cooperative government plus SV to make up a multiple. That's what helped the government in the scooter case, when one wanted to maintain the restrictions that were there. So the co-operation administration knows that it can get multiples for a better outdoor and environmental policy with the environmental party SV. The expectations held us together after the meeting at the Adult Box. We also read the Sem Declaration on securing universal access and public access to natural areas and beach areas. We also knew that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were positive about this. But when you look at the proposals that have now been turned into proposals for transmission, one does not say as the Minister for the Environment that one should strengthen the building ban in the 100-meter belt, but one says that one should come back to the Storting with an indication of the situation. Is that some kind of backup? Do not delete! The government party here on Stortinget does not agree with what the Minister for the Environment has said. It's just reading the difference, and it can also be done right here on the Storting. The difference between the Minister of Environment's flagging a policy that benefits the outdoor interests, and the weakening of the interests of the Right and the Christian People's Party is thus evident here today – even revealing that a former Right-Representative goes into the Evening Post today and regrets that this is happening. They want concrete measures. The Landsförbund of the Outdoor Councils states: ‘The situation is screaming for action to take care of the remaining parts of this unique resource for outdoor life and biodiversity.’ So they're not getting this action today, and it's sorry for SV. The same thing as a do in relation to the beach sun and the 100-metre belt, one can do in relation to what the Minister for the Environment said about tightening up the dispensation practices now. So that problem pushes the multiples in front of it. So today we can sum up the following: the Minister of the Environment flagged on behalf of the public interest and the public interest is not being properly followed up by the government party here today. When one tries to cover up that one needs more knowledge, we have to ask where one has been in the hour. We've had earrings, we've had a seminar, and we've got a break with recordings from outdoor and environmental motions that clearly say to the Right and the Christian People's Party that here needs a tightening, here needs a tightening, and here the outdoor interests need a strengthening. And so these parties here on the Stortinget – the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party – gave way to the requirement that comes. I'm sorry! In their proposals, SV has focused on bets that we know about, i.e. children and young people coming first. That is why we are making proposals, some with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, on strengthening natural childhood gardens and natural shrouds. And that these things have a positive effect on children and young people's interest in nature protection and the environment, we all know. Therefore, SV also makes proposals for an extension of the clay ball supply in the base ball, because we know that this has our future good of. We know that this will lead to an emerging generation thinking more about the future than a part of us does. So we're going to have a generation of more environmentally-conscious, nature-conscious and open-air youth if we make sure to bet on this. Finally, a little bit about economics. Outdoor organisations and environmental movements have repeatedly heard politicians talk about how great things are going to be. But the SV, the outdoor movement and the environmental movement experience that words are lacking in action. When the budgets come and the concrete measures are to be adopted, please do not include them. That's the way it is today. The Labour Party and SV have specific proposals for measures to strengthen the economy of the organisations involved in the open-air economy and to buy out free space, which means that they are getting together. I would like to express a wish that we have a vote tonight that strengthens our natural, environmental and outdoor interests. They have fortified it, and it can do something about the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e534	I think it's nice that Langeland defines the environmental party SV as a party that has a lot in common with the Right in environmental policy. We also aim as a value-conservative party to have an environmental policy that we may be familiar with. On the other hand, when we come into ownership, the distance between SV and Right is significant. I also think the commitment to Langeland was clearly shown. Yes, he was actually quite excited when he was in on this theme. There is no doubt that in the case of the cultural landscape – and then I also include buildings that have been built, for example. in the coastal zone of this country – everyone, including SV, wants to preserve it through protection. But this is not created by the public, but by the labor of generations of private owners, and maintained through generations of the same owners. The view of ownership has also today been a theme that has made a clearer distinction between the left-hand side and the right-hand side of this hall. The left, with the SV at the top, has also pointed out in various contexts that property is the theft of the people and that property rights create the inequality that socialism is to eliminate. In the most extreme cases, the view of the left has led to the confiscation of private property in the name of the people. Is that why this is a disguised argument we get here from the SV in the field of open-air policy? One does not have to be a Right-Man to believe that the outcome of what has happened in the countries that have undergone these experiments has been far from pleasing to these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e545	Let me first say that it is not that SV necessarily has a lot in common with the Right in environmental policy, but we have said that we will at any time support the Minister for the Environment if he has the government party with him to create a better outdoor policy and do something that could improve environmental policy. We're always ready for that. But it seems to me that the back coverage of the Minister for the Environment isn't what it should be when he comes to this house. It bothers me in this matter as well. So I thought that the Right vetted a lot of the problem by just talking about ownership as if it were sacred, and in that way saying that the outdoor interests are not so important. Only it and it will keep their own property, and the world will be saved. This is how it works when you hear Halleraker. But then the question is: does a government audit report fail to infuse itself with the fact that one in place, from the Swedish border to Rogaland, and now it is spreading, is destroying just the access of open-air interests and general public to the natural area through the exemption practices and through an excessive focus on private ownership? According to SV, it is worrying. It is also worrying that the Right does not in fact take in the criticism that comes from the various outdoor organisations that one has to think more of the rights of all people than necessarily of private ownership, as stated in the Evening Post today by Inger-Lise Skarstein of FRIFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e556	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e559	Every day many thousands of people benefit from the diverse and rich nature that we have in Norway, to go for walks in the vicinity and in forests and land, to stay by the sea, to fish sports or to go for trips in the mountains, on foot or on skis. Some also perform extreme sports and wear permanent borders. Ways to use nature for outdoor life are many. The time is over when outdoor life was synonymous with red anoraks and crackers and backpacks with coffee boilers, although some of us still use both red anoraks and backpacks. Well, we can all be a few in that we have a particularly good starting point for doing outdoors here to the country. This presents us as legislators to new problem settings when setting a framework for outdoor life to adapt today's requirements. Storing message "Freelance. A road to higher quality of life includes measures to ensure that nature can also be used for recreational and outdoor purposes in the future. In the debate on this big message, the Christian People's Party has focused on the following three main objectives: 1st@item: inlistbox The use of Norwegian nature for recreation, natural experiences and trim shall be increased further.2. The rights of all persons shall be guaranteed at the same time as the rights of the owners of the land have to be respected.3. The level of conflict in relation to the use of Norwegian nature should be maintained at such a level that the open-air people, governance and landowners can come up with constructive solutions to the challenges that a rich open-air life can pose. The Christian People's Party believes that protecting all-man rights is all-important. In the main message, various measures have been signalled to ensure this. In order to ensure public access to the proper movement in the beach zone, a proposal was made to propose a new rule in the open air law that, where the distance from the cabin or the house is at least 25 metres to the mid-altitude, the general distance may move carefully beyond the edge of the sea, even where the plot extends all the way down to the sea. This is later referred to as the 25-meter zone. But what consequences it will have is far from being properly distributed. The Christian People's Party believes that the authoritative principle must be to secure the right of all persons, at the same time as it must take care of – and show respect for – its fundamental owners' rights. Deepening the different pages of these two aspects into a single column – on page 55 of this message – is not advisable. It is not possible to bring content and background through such a thin representation. When examining the message in the committee, we asked a lot of questions that we did not get answers to. I am surprised that representatives based on the message can give the sloping answers as to what follows it will open for general traffic in the 25-metre zone and go in for changes that, in my opinion, we do not know the consequences. But for all things, the Christian People's Party is aware that areas in the 25-metre zone along the shoreline can be used reasonably for the most possible. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party therefore ask the Government to come back to the Storting with an assessment of various measures aimed at ensuring public access to the beach sonals. A 25 meter rule, if any, may be a way of ensuring this. The reason why we do not support it now is that this proposal has created so many unclear issues that we have seen the need to assess this point further. The work of securing the rights of all persons in beach areas is not accompanied by uncertainties about consequences and high noise levels. Founders, powers of government, and the open-air people must find solutions that everyone can live with. In this regard, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have, in my opinion, built up under a conflict that was already large enough. In the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, a Government is asking for amendments to the outdoor laws in the case of the 25-metre zone, ‘so that everyone can move freely in the beach zone’. If you insert this phrase, it will automatically cause a conflict to occur in my assessment and conflict will delete a part of the mind by experiencing beach sonals. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party, on the other hand, will build up the conflict, and this goal is best achieved by going one more round. Another proposal is to intensify the section of the Planning and Building Laws that applies to building in the 100-metre zone. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the evolution with continuous more expansion in the 100-metre zone from the edge of the beach. In particular, this applies to several areas of the coast from the Swedish border to Hordaland. But we don't think it's the law that's the problem, but, as you might say, the practice of it in some areas. It is important that the municipalities themselves have the right to grant a derogation from the general ban on construction in the 100-meter zone. I assume that there is as much knowledge among local politicians as with politicians at the centre. Local politicians are best aware of their local needs, and they must be able to take responsibility for what can be done within their own municipalities. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party are asking for the Government to return to the Stortinget with an overview of the building in the 100-metre zone. In the committee setting, we ask that the Government ensure that the dispensation practices in the municipalities are exercised in accordance with the intentions of the current laws and guidelines. We don't think having a general rule about how this is going to be treated along the whole coast is a good thing. The situation is very different along our long shoreline, and we believe that a better overview of the situation along the whole coast will help us to get targeted measures so that the coastal zone is not built up but becomes available. The Christian People's Party is concerned that outdoor life should be – and organised as far as possible – simple and unbureaucratic. Volunteer organisations do a very important job to ensure that people can benefit from nature, both along the coast and inland. An example of this is the Tourist Association's effort to make our mountain resort more accessible to pedestrians through the cabin operations and marking of trails and tourist paths. In the debate around the message, it is in the form of a comment that the outdoor organisations should be awarded the tipping agents. The Christian People's Party is for the outdoor organisations to get good terms, and we're not initially disagreeing with this goal, but we think that this cannot be decided now and in this matter. It is particularly important that children and young people use nature for outdoor purposes. This will give them better motor skills and physical birth. Being in nature alone is an amazing experience. It makes them used to fishing, walking in the mountains, and in the woods and fields, and using all the positive sides that it means to be out in the open air. There are many measures that can add to this. The Government Party takes part in the setting, among other things. provision for landowners to offer young people up to the age of 18 youth cards which will provide a significant discount on fishing licences in accordance with more detailed rules. We believe that this proposal is better structured than increasing the age limit for the right to free fishing from 16 to 18. To use nature in different ways for recreation and exercise and through this experience, is something that we in Norway have a unique opportunity to do. A varied and diverse nature facilitates it. The outdoor organisations have provided a good service to our use of nature. And the supply that they have, the way they mark this and themselves participate, is with us and stimulates us to use nature. There is no doubt that this will also cause us to forget some of the stress and thus build us up to meet many of today's challenges. It is therefore important that the decisions we take today are correct, so that the most possible access to the privilege we have received through Norwegian nature. And as an extra gain, we can get a viable use of nature here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e596	During the examination of this matter, the Committee should have been on an inspection in Blindleia east of Kristiansand. It was a very bad thing we didn't get there. But it was due to bad weather and storm, and that's why we didn't see things that I think the bourgeois parties and government parties had been very good at seeing. At the Political Quarter today, the Chairman of the Committee spoke about strengthening both the free movement within the 25-metre zone and tightening up the construction ban in relation to the 100-metre limit. When you see what's going on today, you see that it's empty talk. Conflicts arise mainly when there are unclear rules. The working party and SV today propose a law tightening to clarify the rules. This will lead to fewer conflicts. But not only that, it will also lead to that ownership will actually be stronger. So it's not going to be part of the government's party. They leave to the Minister for the Environment to decide what to do here. And compared to what he said earlier, it's disappointing to see the result. In concrete terms, what does the representative of the Minister for the Environment of Lions think must be done to improve public access to what they have today, and to talk to government parties not only to talk but also to action?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e607	It is clear that Rolf Terje Klungland, myself and the Christian People's Party have a very similar view when it comes to the rights of all people. And in my post, I stress several times the importance of the rights of all-man and the general right to experience the beach areas. It was stupid we didn't get a visual in Blindleader. Personally, I've been there before, and I've also looked at some of the fences that are there. But I've also looked at the accessibility. And I have my own visitors and have experienced being in the beach zone in this area. But with a further presentation, we could have gotten even better information. Our starting point – which I also mentioned in the article – is that we should be able to strengthen the rights of all persons in the 25-meter zone. But starting from a message that mentions on a very half-page what the consequences of any legislative change will be is not advisable. If there is something that creates conflict – and I have already heard and otherwise been informed that there is a legal basis – we need to be able to have a dialogue. There is no memory in areas of conflict level. This will be a process. We have a focus now that we think will be very lucky with that part right there. The same thing applies to the 100-metre zone. From local authorities it has become clear that there is no legislation in itself, but the practice in some areas is unfortunate. There's a lot of people who see, and I think most people admit it. Therefore, the practice that a person now has to do is have to do something with. We're going to follow up on this. Unlike the representative of Klungland, I am not concerned about the Minister for the Environment's environmental exposure. On the contrary. It is a pleasure to see that he has such a great environmental exposure and is also busy securing the rights of all people. We believe that this will be the right way to move forward, so that he can come back and show both how the legislation and the planning and building laws in the 100-metre zone should be practised, and how to strengthen the rights of all persons within what is now called the 25-metre zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e618	Urban land is a community and play area for children and young people. In the Oslo area, Marka is the main source of outdoor life and natural experiences for one million people. The mark is about 1,600 square kilometres, and the outdoor organisations have been able to organize more than 3,000 kilometres of winter paths and summer paths here. 65 pst. by the population of Oslo uses Marka actively. 70 pst. indicates that they are using Marka just to experience silence. Today we have no law to protect Marka. Outdoor life is not a criterion for protection. Paradoxically, we cannot protect nature that is close to cities and towns because people are actively using this nature. Today, Marka is managed by 5 counties and 19 municipalities. This means that it is difficult to coordinate and difficult to coordinate. Outdoor organisations should be able to use all their forces to facilitate outdoor activities. Instead, we see that they have to guess 19 local governments and 5 counties to prevent the Mark border from breaking. As is the case today, the mark-up must be achieved every four years. Does not the Christian People's Party see that a law on the protection and sustainable use of urban land can secure Oslo land for the future, and ensure that we are able to concentrate on managing Marka in such a way that it is best organised for outdoor activities, for children and young people, so that this pearl in Oslo and the surroundings in which we are so happy can be secured for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e629	It was interesting to underline the value of Marka, as the representative Heidi Sørensen did. There's no doubt that for those who live in the 19 municipalities and in the respective counties, for the Oslo people and also for those who come, it's a great area, and I'm impressed with all the trails and areas that are prepared for use. And then naturally comes the question: why does not the proposal that came up with the tame of the committee? I have given one of the key chords, or perhaps the most important key in this round: the proposal was raised at the very end of the committee treatment, and it was almost not distributed at all. We who were in the committee, and who got it in written form, at least got it all on the tap. Now we know that the Law on Planning and Building facilitates the protection of both the Marka area and cities that have the corresponding area, even if it has a different concept. I have to mention that as a new wholesaler, I am a little surprised at how quickly it is possible for policymakers to make proposals without having the local contact, and then promote it in the form of the law. I mean, I have a lot of respect for the level of knowledge and experience that local politicians have, and the planning and building laws are a good tool. In the same way as elsewhere in the country when it comes to creating national parks, natural areas, etc., it involves a long process in which everyone shares it – that is, the 5 municipalities, the 19 municipalities and others – must first make recordings. And then the question is, is there a need for the Storting to make special legislative decisions in relation to this? It's going to be interesting to follow this. We've had contact with the Christian People's Party in Oslo, and their posture is all on the line with our attitude to this. We have not taken a position on the matter as a matter, but we expect it to have a proper and solid settlement. I miss that for my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e640	Let me first clear up a public misunderstanding. The suggestion for Oslo marks was submitted as one of the first SV proposals. So it is wrong to say that this was delivered at the end. Furthermore, it is also right to draw the attention of the Christian People's Party to the fact that the Left has said that they should support this so-called late proposal. So there are clearly some parties who have had time to get involved in this, and then it will be a good idea to try to get this submitted too late. It has been a massive pressure from environmental and outdoor organisations to agree on that proposal as well. Let me just also say that we have got a new recording after the release of the setting, where it actually says that the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party and the Center Party on the Marka is actually a weakening of the Government's proposal. In other words, proposal No. 5 a weakening of the setting to open-air law, and one should then perhaps also forward this proposal. That's my first question to the Christian People's Party. Stavanger Aftenblad has a notice that the cottage owners ‘are eating of the beach zone’. Such a look-up can be found over it quite south and northwards and westwards. Then is my second question to Liones: when the Riksrevision, when the media, when outdoor movements, can all prove that there must be a strengthening of practice here, and when the Minister of Environmental Protection has promised this, why will the Christian People's Party fail?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e654	I appreciate the environmental exposure that Hallgeir Langeland has, and in many fields we are some. We have a common goal, but it's obvious that there's been a conflict, and in some cases I actually think it's a little bit of a shin, if the means of action we're going to use. For the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that we should have a proper process, because there are so many interests inside the image, and it's very unfortunate that one in the process should make mistakes, so that it can actually weaken all-man rights. When it applies to the process in relation to Oslo marks, it is correct that the submitted came from SV, and it was read quickly, but it is not mentioned in the message. And if you know the processes that have been associated with the creation of national parks or securing other areas for the public, it has a completely different time perspective than a few weeks, and it was decisive for us. And as I said, we have been in contact with the Christian People's Party in Oslo in relation to this. That the government's party would weaken the government, we've heard a lot of times, but it won't be right for that reason. It has been a close and close contact with the Minister for the Environment and with the Government otherwise, so that we are moving in a direction that is in line with what is going to happen. This – as the representative Langeland also mentions – has been a part of the unfortunate practice of the rules of the so-called 100-metre zone. That's exactly the practice we're referring to. And there was also a letter from the Minister for the Environment in March with instructions to state officials and the municipalities that they should now tighten up the rules. I see that this is even clearer for those municipalities that have not followed their intentions as they should, in our opinion. So it's practice that has to be tightened up here. And if that doesn't work, we're set to a new round, but then we need enough information.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e673	It has been said about the open-air message that ‘the message is similar to the large-scale messages marked by good formulations’. That's also the first condition. It must also be correct to say that the message is reasonably accurate on many points. In the short version, it can be highlighted that one emphasises the simple and natural outdoor life, the health and well-being aspect and the importance of recruiting children and young people to good outdoor habits. All-man rights stand strongly both in lawmaking and in people's consciousness. The centre party believes that it is important that the rights of all persons are upheld and not weakened. A balance between private ownership and the right of all-persons incorporated is largely working very well. The public has a responsibility to move in a considerate way, both towards the environment and towards landowners and rightholders. The landowner on his side is responsible for ensuring that no obstacles are placed in the way of free movement. However, the centre party considers that greater scope and new forms of organised movement over the years may make it necessary to limit such movement by amending the Outdoor Law. A clearer distinction must then be made between organised commercial activities in the field and traditional all-man rights. It would be right in view of the fundamental interests of owners; furthermore, it is very important that the possibility of exercising simple outdoor life is not impaired. Hunting and fishing are too many of the most important outdoor activities, while these activities may be a necessary part of the nutritional basis for each landowner. Young people's fishing card is a theme of the outdoor news. A clear majority of the Committee acknowledges that the fishing rights belong to the owner but encourages the issue of a Youth Card for the 16-18 age group. This scheme has also been discussed with the parent organisations. They welcome this as part of youth motivational and recruitment measures. Otherwise, the beach area problem is much described in the message. General construction ban in the 100 meter belt is of course at hand. On the other hand, the Center Party will not be involved in the so-called 25-metre rule that would allow everyone to move freely when there are more than 25 meters between the house and the sea. This has to do with respect for private property rights, and in fact also with respect for privacy. But for the future, of course, it is very important how the coastal zone problem is handled. It is clear that the beach zone is being subjected to pressure in several places in the country, especially in parts of the Oslofjord area. This area, with its own national policy guideline in place, extends from the Swedish border to Telemark. The coastline from the Swedish border to Rogaland is about 10 pst. of the total coastline in Norway. Large parts of this could be called press areas. For the remaining 90 pst. the pressure is varying, from quite strong to completely absent. So in some areas it would be loving if there was a cabin or two. I'm not going to go this anymore, but my point is that there are great local variations. The regulatory framework should therefore be differentiated so that guidelines and rules of dispensation may vary in content and practice according to the country in which it is located. It is the municipalities that are responsible for spatial planning, and it is an important part of the local maritime administration. And it is also important that the provisions are taken as closely as possible to those concerned. Local maritime administration is also the main reason why I do not support any of my own Marka laws. In addition, the Centre Party wishes to practise multi-use principles in these areas. It's very positive that we have plenty of access to outdoor life even in the vicinity of Oslo. The proposal for a Marka law was, as far as I know, promoted for the first time 20 years ago, and it has actually been very successful without a law of its own. Finally, a little about the future — children and young people. Better provision shall be made for green areas. It's especially about school and playgrounds. The importance of camp schooling is also emphasised. For the Central Party, it is important that camp attendance is free of charge. We are in favour of encouraging the establishment of several natural schools and natural kindergartens, and we refer to good examples of Hamar and Gausdal. The open-air message setting provides a good basis for ensuring good natural and recreational experiences to the general public. The aim is to ensure future generations as good access to natural experiences as we have. The possibilities are there. It's just using them – not just talking about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e697	I was in and surfed the Internet the other day, and then I came across some questions and answers from the representative, Inger Enger, from the Center Party, about the red-green policy. There it was asked why it was not such that the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre could form a block in the Stortinget that could lead to a better policy than the one being led now. To the representative, Enger said that in many cases it was actually that the parties voted for the same thing in the Stortinget, just not in the agricultural policy, because there was the Workers' Party and the Right who were overthrown. I would like to make it clear that agricultural policy is something far more than the amount of transfers to be made to the peasantry each year. In this process, the centre party has joined forces with the landowners' parties and proved its true self. Nevertheless, they are included in a note that says: ‘The Committee considers it valuable that young people choose hunting and fishing as a hobby and want to stimulate it.’ They also realize that it is important that the threshold to use nature is as low as possible. This leads me to the following question: What is the reason why the Center Party does not want free fishing for young people? Is there any extra resources to secure the agricultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e709	First of all, I would like to say that it is nice that Klungland is able to find me on the Internet – it is probably not in so many ways, I think! That the centre party, in this case then by me, is positive to the red-green policy in many contexts, is raised beyond doubt. I'm not going to go further into it, because I don't understand which side he refers to. Klungland said that in agricultural matters it was the Right Party and the Workers' Party that decided. He was also engaged in land ownership, private ownership, and mentioned this by hunting and fishing. It's raised above any doubt, the Center Party is quite clear in terms of private ownership. This applies not only to agriculture, but also to people's private gardens, whether they have to vote SV, the Labour Party or the Right. We're clear on this. In terms of hunting and fishing, we argued that it would be an extension to the 18-year-old limit to obtain free fishing licenses. When the parent organisations say that a youth card is okay, we are fine too, but it is an important principle that the basic ownership rights are private and stand firm. I also have to add that I think that in the case of the incentive work around this with cheap fishing licenses for 18-year-olds, most of it is probably done. Motivation can be important for young children, but I think when you're 18, you've decided on your interests largely. As I said, we agree with Klungland in some contexts, but we did not meet in this area. I think it can go well anyway. If Klungland doesn't get a youth card, others can get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e720	The centre party is often a good member of the environmental policy for us in SV, but with some exceptions, for example. in matters of private ownership. In energy and climate policy, however, constructive input from the Centre Party has often been made, and it was therefore with surprise that I registered the comments of the Centre Party that they did not seem natural to address issues related to power consumption in recreational homes as part of the open-air policy. I will come back to this in my post, but I would remind you that this is actually a question that the ministry has raised in the notice. Yes, it should also be pointed out in the introductory part of the Committee's opinion that there is a need to provide municipalities with a better tool to ensure more efficient use of energy, and that land use and energy use should be seen in the context of developing a more environmentally-adapted cab policy. But maybe it's just this relationship that exists between the energy and the area issues, that triggers the central party's landowner's backlash?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e725	I thank the Vaggen Malvik for this. There's a number here that we're not concerned about energy policy, since it's in the message. It was only SV who wanted to address this, and the reason is that there were plenty of themes to deal with. I think it is more natural to come back to this in an energy policy context and not to stress it in the matter of outdoor life. In fact, it may have to do with ‘A way to improve the quality of life’, but they all, most of them, felt it was unnatural to address this issue in this context. It is absolutely right that SV and the Center Party very often find each other in terms of energy use, and I think we'll agree on this later, too, whether you're a landowner's party or not. The center part also embraces people other than those who specifically own a lot of land. So that shouldn't be a problem. We're concerned about energy use, we've been busy with two-prices on electricity, and I see the absolute need to look at this also in connection with cabin construction. It has to be a goal for us to bring down the total energy consumption, and then there are a lot of funds that can be used. You can't just pull something loose in the context of an open-air message. Let's get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e741	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e744	TV 2 complained a few days ago that the Minister of Agriculture was indebted to Springlord in agricultural policy. He did nothing but point out, of course, that Norway, by nature, does not have the best intentions in Europe to produce cheap agricultural products. TV 2 will also have to report that the Left “Sir Lord” because Norway has the best intentions for a good and active outdoor life. This has been shown by the Nordics to appreciate and benefit from for a long time, and we have traditions and abilities that many can envy us. The left sees outdoors as an important part of good life and an important part of a good and forward-looking environmental policy. We learn to enjoy, benefit and take care of nature. The Left's Minister of Environmental Protection in the Central Government, Guro Fjellanger, took a strong interest in these issues, and we are pleased that the work has been carried on by her successor from the Workers' Party and by the Minister of Environmental Protection in the Cooperation Government. The progress game again uses the ability to see itself as a powerful anti-environment party. It is most unlikely that the party will be able to join to present such a profile. A few years ago, the party leader proclaimed that the party should pursue an environmental policy, and Kurt Oddekalv became involved in helping. And then we didn't hear about it anymore. With this exception, the Left feels that there is a great deal to do about outdoor policy, and there is a lot of good in the big message that the government Stoltenberg presented. On some points, it is really unsavory, but it is disappointing to read the settings in question. For the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, it is clearly very important to run participative games rather than to gather about important plural remarks for the outdoors. It is a shame, but the Left will not participate in this symbol game about phrases that have no other purpose than to create artificial opposites and games for the gallery. I join the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in their surprise at what kind of comments the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party are making themselves write in a big-time position, cf. page 5 of the configuration. Visual awakening is also the mixing of the two parts and the Centre into the Åker Island sac in this setting, and the way it is done. Firstly, the matter of handling is in another committee. Secondly, the issue of non-compliance has nothing to do with the right of all persons. Rather, it's probably the way that eelment gets easier access to a leisure building than it does where people live all year long. Thirdly, these parties make a statement that ‘this case is said to create precedent’. Who says this? A higher precision should be required in a higher calibration. This is not about a new policy, but about following the legal system. It is said to see if a new review in the ministry produces another result. This issue has nothing to do with it, however, except to try to score reasonable political points. It is an unworthy and unblemished game. To the left, the plural comments like Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind. We also echo the comments of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. For example, in the question of the beach zone, these comments and the proposed proposal are enough to take care of the rights of all people, as the Left is particularly concerned about. At one point we want to support the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. It concerns the issue of the market boundary, proposal No 8. We do not see that this is contrary to the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, and will therefore vote in favour of this as well. In addition, the Left will support the intention of proposals No. 9 and 10, which is now being transformed into a transmission proposal. We want to vote against the others. We might be sympathetically inclined to some of these, but there's a set of statements that we can't agree with, for example. to forward a new distribution of ticks before finding cover for the funds for research which will then fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e766	Today, we are dealing with the big message "A way to higher quality of life". This message has been submitted by the Workers' Party and continued by the current government. Nevertheless, there are 20 proposals to be voted on and there are disagreements here in the Chamber. The government parties come with pious desire to tighten up for the benefit of the public and the environment. I've said it before, and I like to repeat it when I have occasion: the current government is doing a lot of talking and little action. At least they are not supported by their own parties in Stortinget. In this case, I would say that it is regrettable. For a while I was at the Voksenåsen and listened to Minister of Environmental Protection Burnde. To be a Right-State Council there was no way in his interpretations of how important it was to take care of the environment. The 100-metre belt along the coast had to be protected, and he was quite clear that the 25-meter belt for free movement would be implemented. Of course, we from the Workers' Party were overjoyed over the Right turnaround operation. Finally, the Right had realized the importance that most people would have access to our natural pearls. They were no longer to be reserved for rich people and landowners. When the government parties in Stortinget started processing the message, we discovered that the Council of State spoke only empty words. I travel a lot on vacation by boat in the summer, both westward and eastward. It's a delicious experience that I admire all. On a fine summer day, Blindleia east of Kristiansand must be one of the most beautiful places on earth. The first time I came to Blindlead, however, I was shocked. If someone like a boat tourist is going to be there more than going through, one actually has to bring a draft to find areas to anchor on. If you are unlucky or careless with the anchoring, you are quickly chased by angry lodge owners. And of course, no one can chase you from an anchoring position. No well, I say, but do we think that boaters travel on vacation along our coast to argue with many millionaires about anchoring? Beverly Hills in Blindleia, the fatherland friend called it because local politicians couldn't resist the pressure of the multimillionaires and their lawyers to facilitate swimming pool and tennis courts in the 100-meter belt. The South is becoming a holiday paradise for rich Eastern people, where the local population is ordered to stay away in the summer, but is allowed to be the janitor in the winter. The government's attack on the housing obligation merges into this pattern. The Minister for the Environment will continue to give talks. But when it comes to political decisions, reality is different. What is happening here in the Chamber today must be a great defeat for the Council of State. None of his pronounced bets are followed up by the government parties. Such a policy will be transparent. It's not a matter of length to pursue politics with pious desires. Politics requires action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e785	This debate shows that outdoors are engaged. And that's good. The Committee setting also shows, which is even more important, that although outdoor life is multi-faceted, there is broad political consensus on the vast majority of objectives and instruments for making outdoor life and natural experiences available to more people. The notification describes four very central areas – also four types of land. One is urban land, the other is green lungs, the third is mountain areas, and the fourth is coastal zones. I noticed that the case rapporteur, the representative of Brustad, said in his statement that now it is important that we move from fine words and good intentions, to action. I fully agree with that. Let's take the four challenges and start with the urban field. This government has been acting where others have been holding their hands in captivity for many years. In the course of a little six months we have protected, through two protective plans – the last is just around the corner – 15 000 dekar – in Oslomarka! These are important nature reserves, they are important landscape protected areas, and it is important to preserve biodiversity in the area so that people in Oslo, who have an upland of nearly one million, can also have the same opportunities for outdoor life in the future as they do today. This is ‘from word to action’. This plan was completely overdue, and I speeded it up after I took over the Ministry of the Environment. Then to the other, green lungs. In the Ministry of the Environment, there has been a plan for several years to be ready for transmission, linked to better land-use planning in Norway. It hasn't been promoted. The environmental organisations and the outdoor organisations have requested it. In a few weeks' time, the government will promote its own growth message about a better environment in cities and agglomerations, going through the whole planning process. So the Committee is given the opportunity to deal with this message, which is about how to ensure that our children have access to green lungs, and how to secure green tracts and green corridors from cities up to the ground, so that those who have asphalt outside their home can more easily get on a bicycle ride or walk up to the ground. This will now be dealt with in Stortinget – and the case was over-mature. I'm glad to get it out of the drawer, where it's been lying for too long. From word to action! So to the third ratio, related to mountain ranges. Fortunately, more than ever now use the mountains for active outdoor activities. And what has this government done? So in six months we have established the first national park in Norway in ten years, Forollhogna. The case has been lying and incubating and incubating in the department. There are many who have not wanted to take the burden of running a protective plan, in my own constituency, a protective plan that is very important, important for preserving seat valleys, important for preserving wild clean. We're just showing here that we're going from word to action. What have you done in the ten years when you haven't promoted a single national park? You haven't gone from word to action. But this government has done so. And on top of that, after it is the first national park in ten years, on 1 June, with the King at its head, we will open the expansion of the Dovrejell National Park. The Committee is also cordially welcome. It'll be a big event, as well as a follow-up of the Forollhogna. This is open-air in practice. In the course of the year, we will also extend the Svalbard protection area to the biologically richest areas, and we will establish a protection plan for the Bear Island. Other factors are also mentioned, including: you've been in for fish. So what are we going to do, for example? to protect the Atlantic wild axis, to protect the fish that this is about? We have had a strong effort to stop a gyro-infected plant in the Bullare Valley, so that not the entire Halden watercourse loses its wild axis due to gyro infection. There we are in the process of achieving goals in relation to the Swedes, I hope. We also need to put forward further measures in relation to the wilderness axis. So for outland motor travel, which is a big and important chapter in this message. There the previous government had planned to promote changes to the regulations, before the trial project in eight municipalities had been completed! But it is obvious that when the Workers' Party again ends up in Stortinget, the party finds reason to clean up its environmental profile. Of course, it was very unwise not to carry out a test project with local administration and have it evaluated before changing the regulations. And now I am very happy that the rapporteur-in-Office, Mr Brustad, also supports what I have put forward on this point. Another important element of the open-air message that is going through! Another piece that is also essential is cultural memories, the experience of cultural memories in the context of outdoor life. 1 pst. our cultural memories are disappearing. What has this government been doing in six months? One thing that has also been lying for a very long time in the department's drawers is the protection of the Yttersø farm – a pearl of a garden in Vestfold, with 25 covers around, which the government protected just before Christmas, to deliver it just before we entered the United Nations Cultural Memory Year; it is also the years of the mountains, with which we are familiar. We want to revitalise Norwegian environmental policy, and we have also shown that by taking important steps in the field of outdoor life. Then, of course, there is someone who doesn't have a very strong sense of private property rights, and who has had a hard relationship with it for many years, which makes two relationships, linked to the 25-meter belt and the 100-meter belt, to the big thing here today, and I understand that. With such a lack of results in all the other areas, I would, with such a weak argument, also raise the vote on the two points. I understand the strategy, but it's not right that what the government parties in Stortinget have done here is some kind of debilitating outdoor life. On the contrary, it has also been pointed out quite clearly that if you want to have a good outdoor life and have a proper protection of important areas, you depend on private property owners and those who own houses and land and cabins to take care of their areas properly. In addition, what have the government parties done? It has been said that in the case of the 25-meter belt, you are willing to assess it, and send it to the Government, you have not said no. Now it seems that the majority will not even participate in a transmission to the Government for further review. But I have noticed that the Workers' Party has also here left the arrangement of the previous government. In an article in the newspaper on 7 April, the rapporteur expressed the desire to travel in the said 25-meter belt. But what the previous government put up to, was that you could just have traffic right along the edge of the beach. There is a lack of clarity in relation to the definition of inland to land. I'm willing to go through this in a proper way. I hope the opposition takes that challenge and lets me review it. In the case of the 100-metre belt, I understand from the case rapporteur that it is enough, now we have to go the law. In that case it is also a rather tough judgment of its own efforts over many years. The rapporteur also said that there have been very many exemptions in a short time. The aim is then to investigate the Riksrevision. In a short time — from 1982 — 8 100 exemptions have been granted. It's gross, one also includes e.g. the rebuilding of burned-down houses and ready-to-fall houses. I have conducted a survey of the counties, which shows that few exemptions have been granted to new buildings in the Oslofjord area in relation to the other counties. Of course, there is a difference between a factory in the West that is closed and that is converted into an open-air area, including cabins, and the area along the Oslofjorden, where there is a completely different pressure. I think you should bring that with you. Our review of what has happened in recent years shows, for example: that Vestfold reported that for the first half of 2001, there had been a total of 77 dispensations cases in the 100-meter belt, of which 60 were granted and 17 were rejected. Most of the exemptions concerned the extension of existing cabins. Two applications for new cabins were rejected, but several permits were granted to demolish old cabins and reintroduce them. As we see, therefore, it is not the construction of new buildings that is the main problem here, but, on the other hand, smaller measures such as building up etc. important elements in this. But what have we done in this area? The previous government didn't write any letters to the statesmen and municipalities. On 8 March I explained that we initially have a ban on the construction of the 100-meter belt. This should be very noted on the part of the county councillors, and the county councillors can exercise their right of objection, even in relation to regulatory changes and waivers from different municipalities. This has not been done since 1982, but perhaps you should start with it before you go to the law and take responsibility away from the municipalities, which have the primary responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e822	I have to say it's really weird to listen to the Environment Minister who keeps saying one thing when he's in one place, and says another thing when he's in another place. So the first message should perhaps be that the Minister for the Environment should agree with himself and say the same, whether he speaks in one or the other assembly. When the Minister for the Environment was at the much-mentioned open-air conference at the Voksenåsen, the Minister for the Environment explicitly announced that a clear rule was to be made in the case of the 25-metre belt. The Minister for the Environment expressly announced that he would strengthen the building ban in the 100-meter belt. From the pulpit here today, we heard an environmental protection minister minimizing this problem, and his party traps here in the Stortinget are making the very opposite of what the Minister of Environmental Protection said at the waxenåsen. It was even very strongly underlined by Højre's chief spokesman, Halleraker, who in a number of speeches today has stressed that for the Right it is the private property that is the most important. Halleraker even went so far as to say something in the direction that the Right will never take decisions that mean interference with ownership. What, then, is the intention to submit proposals to the Government to investigate 25 meters, 100 meters or what it might be? Firstly, it is clear that the Minister for the Environment has been crushed by his own. There is no agreement between words and actions of the Minister for the Environment, although in this post he tried to speak completely away from what we are really discussing today, from what is really the issues of conflict here today. This is about value selection. This is about us having something to live for in this country too. I have to say that fine words about outdoor life don't hold, it's the act that counts. And I'm not impressed by the efforts of the bourgeois parties here today. The problem is that every time we come to a choice between landowners' rights and public rights, the bourgeois parties land on the landowners' rights. Yes, but then the Minister for the Environment gets to say that, if that's the party's policy. Does the Minister for the Environment find it problematic that he is being bullied by his own people, and what does the Minister for the Environment really mean in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e829	I'm at least at the tip of my ears when the representative Brustad speaks out with great weight about talking about one thing one place and with another starting point somewhere else. In this respect, the Labour Party has quite a lot of professional expertise. As for what I said at the much-mentioned conference – I was actually present at it myself as well – and what is most quoted here, I have found the script. Of course, I made an appeal. This is a very good script, and we distributed it afterwards. I'm in charge of everything that's standing there. What it says is a colon, and then it says two points that describe what's in the message – just so it's said. Here's someone quoting me from what's in the message. But I don't have a problem – we didn't draw the message. As I said at the outset as well: at all, most of the points we see that the message was very good, and in addition we have filled the message with content, not just a framework around. Now, when we're talking about a choice of values, and now we kind of have to man up to do that, that's what we've done. The government has revitalised Norwegian environmental policy. The previous government made up for a total glare in relation to the motor travel regulations. We have now carried out a test project in relation to that. We've created the first National Park in ten years. We've gone into the maybe most difficult cultural memory that was on my table. We protected 15,000 decks in Oslo-marka. This is not just words, this is actually action, it! So you're doing two small, trivial things in this message to the superstitious case. And when I say "minor," it's relative to what's the difference between what the government parties stand for, and what SV and the Workers' Party are doing. We are willing to send over proposals for the 25-meter belt, and we are also willing to use the law that already exists in relation to the 100-meter belt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e840	The representative Brustad referred to the different signals that the right sends about private property rights, and that requires clarification. Private ownership is a fundamental right that guarantees the right of individuals to own values, and it is, of course, protected by law. But it's under attack -- it's still gone. Many good reasons can be given for why I or someone else should be able to walk over, camp on or even dispose of the property of another person: Perhaps the owner is too rich, has inherited too much, or otherwise sends out signals that make some parties think it legitimate to propose to cut off their right to dispose of their own homes. Now it is those who live near the beach, who are being attacked and to be taken. Tomorrow it may be those who live near mountains and woods. The day after tomorrow, there may be everyone with a private plot. Because you don't have clear principles about what's right and what's wrong and yours and mine, there's no end to how far you can go. Can the Council of State assure any person who owns a house, cabin or other property that he will give high consideration to private property rights and will not contribute to the kind of impairment that free movement in the coastal zone involves?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e851	When you discuss outdoor life, there are a lot of people thinking about mountains and going into the field. But I think it's important to bear in mind that also an important part of outdoor life is the possibility, for example. now in spring to take the kids and pick the shells on the beach and also go in important beach areas. This is why the Government has an active policy here in relation to ensuring general law in those areas. We're very positive to e.g. archipelago parks and old defence facilities that can be converted into important areas for children and families, including those that do not necessarily have shoreline property. I think that is also a principle that the Progress Party should follow. I also believe there are people in the Progress Party who enjoy going out with the kids now a beautiful spring day. But I don't see this in any contrast to ownership. Since 1965 we have had a ban on building in the 100-meter belt. But there has been dispensation, so that it is allowed to use the wit in relation to this. Now it also turns out that it's not in the areas that are the most heavily burdened, for example. along the Oslofjord, one has the largest growth in relation to new buildings. It's in other areas where it's not a similar pressure. Of course, this is a balance sheet. That is why I have also written letters to the statesmen that you should be very aware of new buildings that happen in the 100-meter belt, and you should start using your right of objection, which many governments have not used for many years. You have to use it where you think there are strong public interests that speak for this not to happen. But in other areas – replacing a window on the cabin, possibly creating a small addition if you have had a family increase – I actually think it can be quite reasonable, within a reasonable framework. So there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin also at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e864	Some comments from one who has no professional expertise in not doing anything, such as the Minister for the Environment used as an introduction in response to a reply earlier, but who are concerned with obtaining results for the benefit of the environment, nature protection and outdoor life. This is precisely the starting point of SV – constructive cooperation to achieve what many say: action. It's like the State Councils say: what's needed now when it comes to the beach zone and the 100-metre belt is no more evidence; it's action. ‘The situation is screaming after action to preserve the remaining parts of this unique resource for outdoor life and biodiversity’. they say and refer to the National Audit Office's report. This is where one of the problems comes in, and Brustad was there. SV has taken the Minister for the Environment very seriously. We have all tried to support the Minister for the Environment when possible, with regard to improvement for the environment. But then the fatal thing happens in relation to what is said at the Nordic Conference. And there is no hint from any message – it's about me stepping up the planning and dispensation practices, "I" will strengthen the building ban. There is no reference from any message, it is Environment Minister Børge Brende who is referred to, and there is a problem when we look at the result here today. Finally, there are two proposals on urban areas. That is proposal No. 5, which according to the outdoor organisations will weaken the message, and there is proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and SV, who are in favour of an urban law. How does the Minister for the Environment feel that it is best to secure the open-air interests associated with the urban areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e878	The best way to strengthen the city is to do what the government has done so far, and will continue. In a very short time, we have protected 15,000 deer in Oslomarka, nature reserves, important pearls of biodiversity, areas that you can't run flat on any more, have come within coniferous protection. I'm proud to deliver that. This has not been uncontroversial, but it is absolutely necessary. I think that's a good protection. The seven years I was a municipal councillor in Trondheim, I was really a proponent for the mark border to be sacred, but I am glad that there is also a local debate related to this. However, the State must also use its right of objection in some contexts in this way, and many of the cases actually end up at the Minister for the Environment's table as well. So there's nothing wrong with the legislation today, but of course you can look at the practice of it. Then I am glad that SV again repeats it with constructive cooperation. I think that several of the parties – I can also mention the Labour Party in this context – have cooperated constructively with us on several of the points, and with the Progress Party on the budget. So it doesn't have to be misunderstood, but I'm a little stated when two cases are made to the very comprehensive, when the outdoor message is about so many other points as well: the provisions of the Motor Travel Act, we've established the first national park in ten years, we've been willing to also look at cultural memory protection in that context. That's positive. And then there's a certain shade in what's now associated with the 25 meter belt, and what's going on on the 100 meter belt. Then there's reference to the conference at the Grownåsen – "I" will. Yes, I said that, I want to tighten up the practice. On 8 March, the Ministry of the Environment sent out a letter saying that the county councillors and municipalities must now begin to deal with the legislation relating to the 100-metre belt. It was not done since 1999, under the Bondevik I government. The Bondevik II government followed up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e887	Norway has an unusually long coastline compared to the population. We're gonna be happy for that. I'm going to talk a little bit about the beach zone problem, because there's been a theme here today. There is a lot of healthy and good outdoor life across the coast across the country — including inland waters for that purpose. And there are local variations. In some places there is pressure in the areas, in other places there is actually a lack of pressure. Now I wasn't at the conference on 28 January at the Adult School, so I can't talk about it. But I've been trying to read a little bit in the National Audit Office's document in order to have a little bit to hit the table with me, too, which is not the truth witness from this conference. The National Audit Office has submitted a report on the construction of the 100-metre seat belt along the sea. It's been mentioned sometimes today, and there are large numbers, but I think it's very important that we look at the assumptions for the numbers. For the National Audit Office, a definition has been adopted saying that each building is seizing 8 decks of the beach area. So if you had picked a different number, up or down, the percentage would be different. If, for example: calculated one measure, which is not an unusual size of an empty, would reduce the built-in area to one eighth. Based on the definitions mentioned here, the report says it's 50 pst. of the area of Akershus and Oslo that has been built. I do not want to minimize the beach area problem in any way, and I have agreed with the Workers' Party and SV – I am willing to spend money on buying land if necessary. But my point is that it's important to know what you're talking about. Does the Council of State consider that one with the chosen assumptions gives a realistic picture of the situation, and will the Council of State also contribute to the regulatory differentiation for different parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e896	The regulatory framework is, of course, already differentiated by the fact that national policy guidelines apply to the Oslofjord area, where there is stronger pressure than it is in other regions of our country. The representative of Enger is quite right that we have an unusually long coastline, but the pressure is higher from the Swedish border and down to the South than it is along the West and northwards past the Trondelag. But I think it's right that you also nuance the numbers that are presented. When the National Audit Office says it's been 8,100 new builds since 1982, it's gross. Those numbers also cover reentry of houses that are torn, or have burned down. It is also true that within the figures that are reported to me semi-annually, i.e. 1000 changes within the 100-meter belt, even outside the scope of national policy guidelines, there are quite a number of shades. East-Agder – from which I have also obtained an example – had 105 applications in the first half of 2001, of which 82 were granted and 23 rejected. Several measures concerned new buildings, but mainly these were garages and sea lodges. Two new residences were allowed to be built, but no new cabins. So here, too, we see that smaller measures dominate. At the same time, I believe that one must be very aware that a reconstruction should be prevented. Therefore, it is important to make the municipalities follow the intentions of the Planning and Building Act that there is initially a building ban in the 100-metre belt. And this I myself believe that I have made a strong contribution through my letter of 8 March to the county officials, county councils and municipalities. It is also important to enforce the provisions of the Outdoor Law on the right to move. And there's the Directorate of Nature Management playing an important role. They have developed a manual on closures and how municipalities should deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e906	The Minister for the Environment made an offensive statement in relation to issues that the Government is going to promote. But the case we're dealing with today shows that we can't see what the Right and Christian People's Party really means until the cases are also dealt with in the Storting. If, in the future, there will be greater agreement between what the Minister for the Environment believes, and the Right and Christian People's Party is in favour of the Storting, it will be joyful. But in the first major case of the Ministry of Environmental Protection that the Stortinget deals with during this period, it is what characterises the setting that the Right and Christian People's Party elects the Advance Party in front of the Workers' Party and SV. Together with the Progress Party, the Right stresses several times the ownership and importance of private ownership. Together with the Progress Party, the Right argues that there is no conflict between the free movement of general law and the protection of the ownership of landowners. However, together with the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party wish that consideration for those who have a house or a cabin and a way over their property should go ahead, and that we should therefore not strengthen the free movement of people on bicycles, for example. Together with the Progress Party, it is said that the need to simplify public procedures must take precedence over the desire to facilitate outdoor life. That's a pretty eye-catching remark really. In order to be able to implement a good environmental policy, it is a fundamental recognition that many of the environmental problems we are seeing today are the result of many small individual decisions, which may not be so dangerous by themselves, but which in total have consequences for the environment. And if you're going to do something about this, you sometimes have to limit it, even if it might lead to bureaucracy, and even if it can be difficult and stupid for someone. Because it may be unpopular in the short term, but in environmental policy we need to be able to think at least 50 to 100 years in advance, and think about how we can today make decisions that serve future generations. In today's Chamber, the Supreme Court has been the private property. [[President clubs]] I wasn't supposed to ask the question!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e919	Of course, it's always hard to answer a question that's not asked, but I'll do my best. [[muttering in the hall]] The replicant said that you can't just deal with what you're going to do; with this Environment Minister you have to look at what's being done, and as I said, I have a very good conscience in relation to it in the field of outdoors. I said we've promoted the first national park in ten years, Forollhogna. It is true that I also said that we should create a national park – an extension of Dovrefjell – on 1 June, but since I have also invited the king there, I expect a certain understanding that we should implement it! It happens. We also need to expand the protection zones of Svalbard. We've changed the motorcycling law. We have said no to a dramatic reversal of the provisions of the Parental Code, to which the previous government submitted, and the Workers' Party has now agreed that we should carry out a test project – an important and very important chapter in the Workers' Party's open-air message. But you don't want to talk about this. You've taken out two points where you haven't had your throat broken right now, but where you want to figure out, and where you want to tighten in a slightly different way. But I understand you don't want to talk about it. I understand that one does not want to talk about cultural memory policy, which is also an important part of being able to enjoy outdoor life. There this government has decided a very important thing. 25 decks are protected around one of the country's most beautiful pleasure parks in Westfold. I can continue: 15,000 deacons were protected in Oslomarka. Nature reserves are amazing! [[Laughter]] This is really a gem that we're taking care of and that you'll also value in 50 to 100 years. But that one then discusses the pope's beard today, i.e. two small differences between the government parties and the Workers' Party and SV – I understand that it's because you need something to stick to, but the big lines are offensive open-air policies with this government, and more offensive than the one that's been in the past few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e930	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e933	It was interesting to see that the representative Langeland almost took the wave for the last answer from the Council of State! Outdoors and access to natural experiences are too many an interesting way of using their leisure time. In today's stressful societies, many people are looking into nature to relax, and that's good. That's how we're going to do it. It is therefore important that we have a policy that facilitates the use of nature in a sensible way. Over many years we have had very good experience in Norway with the essentials of today's legislation. The ownership of landowners and the public's desire for free movement have been to a small extent conflicted. And where there have been conflicts between these two interests, it has largely been resolved. I therefore think there is reason to ask questions as to whether there is a need for major changes in today's legislation as long as it works as well as it does today. Protection of private ownership is what we in the Progress Party are the best defenders of. However, this does not mean that we should prevent an active outdoor life, but that we are largely of the opinion that today's legislation does this in a good way. What I think is surprising in this case is that there is a Council of State from the Right who is in favour of the erosion of private property rights, which we have also received from the Council of State today, and I am thinking in particular of his reply to the reply from the representative Morten Höglund. This happens despite the fact that the Right's representatives from this pulpit have for many years tried to present themselves as the strongest defender of private property rights, which the Halleraker representative has also tried to do today. Right-wingers, both inside and outside this hall, have assured that some introduction of the 25-metre rule in the beach zone is not at all relevant, and so has the representative Halleraker said from this pulpit today. However, we see that the right is behind the proposal in the position asking for an examination of such a proposal. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get I know a lot of people who've been spinning and saving for years to get a cabin. When they have finally managed to obtain what they have dreamed of for many years, they have spent vacations and other leisure time maintaining and caring for their place. But now the government is going to take away this opportunity to enjoy privacy on its own cabins. In the Progress Party, we take such an envious mindset away from. We'll never be involved in an erosion of private property in this way. I want to make sure that the Progress Party will always defend private property even if we stand alone, as we do in this matter today, and we will know to use this for everything it is worth in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e955	One of the main instruments we have in environmental policy is the Planning and Building Act. This applies not least to open-air policy. By means of the Law on Planning and Building, municipalities can facilitate the possibility for citizens to ‘residence and free time physical activity in the open air for the purpose of environmental change and natural experience’, as defined in open air life. One of the challenges of environmental and outdoor policy is related to cabins and cabin construction. Although the cabin for many represents a starting point for outdoor life, it is not going to get away from the fact that it represents interference in nature and that it seizes areas. In particular, in recent years the forest belt has been exposed to increasing pressures, through increasing land and energy-intensive cabins, road development and other technical interventions. This forest belt is the habitat of many endangered species in Norwegian fauna and represents in many places in the country large, seamless areas that are important for biodiversity. SV clearly sees the need to strengthen the Planning and Building Act by developing new land use categories, including cabin construction, so that it takes more account of both open-air and other environmental considerations in spatial planning than at present. In addition to providing a better tool for the regulation of cabin construction, this could also facilitate the organisation of open-air areas in more densely built areas, such as roads. in the vicinity of major residential areas. The definition of cabins has changed in recent years. While in the 1950s and 1960s we talked about small, powerless buildings outside of all colors, and of course without a highway, in the 1990s we got cabin palaces à la Smoke which have both year-round and winter roads, preferably with electricables outdoors to let go of the annoying snow mowing. Indoors we find the same standard that you are used to from home, with washing machine, dishwasher, TV, video and CD player, and where the inserted power is almost a matter of course. The Ministry has pointed out in the Communication the need to provide municipalities with better tools to ensure more environmentally efficient energy use and the need for a better knowledge base on both land and energy consumption related to cabins. We fully agree with this and will refer in this respect to the document No. the 8, promoted, on the development of better indicators for energy consumption in municipalities. Support for this proposal could provide the municipalities with a badly needed tool, but, in isolation, a better data is not sufficient. In order to be effective, it must also be used. In addition, it is therefore necessary to make changes to the Planning and Building Act that provide municipalities with greater power management. This is the background for SV to suggest that you make the necessary changes to this effect. In addition, we believe that a differentiation from the price of electricity is also necessary, and will therefore require the Government to assess models that can provide greater differentiation between leisure homes and all-year homes in terms of electric electricity charges. There's no point in, in our opinion, having the same or even lower electricity prices than the people most pay for their basic consumption. By increasing the price of this type of electricity consumption, we'll hopefully also make it less attractive to build large, land-consuming recreational homes connected to the ordinary electricity grid. Because it is also worth remembering that electric current transmission is very land-consuming. SV's outdoor policy is based on an overall understanding of environmental problems. The potential for general land movement, natural experience in non-interventional areas, biodiversity and reduced greenhouse gas emissions are interrelated. We are pleased that the Labour Party has signalled in the debate a desire to take this debate on the whole, but we regret that the Labour Party will not be involved in taking a more offensive approach to precisely energy and land consumption in relation to outdoor property. When Storting's approach suggests that issues such as the open-air message, the message of biodiversity and the climate message are addressed separately, it is up to us as representatives to be able to see the links and make these links visible. If we constantly postpone this debate, the result will be that it will never be taken. Through the proposals that SV has made, we invite the other parties to contribute to a more holistic approach to the environmental challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e976	I will try to summarise some of the main features of the debate that I have noted down the road. Let me first say that some of the things you're left with as the main impression is that parts of the opposition have been more concerned about going through the process between the government parties on the Stortinget and the Council of State. It has actually been such a big part of the debate itself that we have got the impression that that process has perhaps been more important than the policy itself. That, I believe, has been the basis for this, because when we read the setting of the message, we see that it is essentially an aggregate increase that is behind the main orientations of the open-air policy. But there are two-three points that have been raised in a way to be a commodity or not for Norwegian outdoor policy. If one does not immediately reach a 25-metre zone, all open-air policies in Norway fall into ruins. If you don't get a new law in relation to the 100 meter belt, everything falls to the ground in terms of the possibilities for the public to access the beach zone, even within 100 meters. That's not how it is. Now, over 20 years, as the Council of State also pointed out, according to a law, we have found that we have had an aberration in relation to national policy objectives, and we have had too much construction of certain parts along the coast. But it is dispensation practices in relation to the law that are wrong, not necessarily the law. Those who have not been able to ensure that the right of derogation has been exercised in accordance with the guidelines are, in fact, the Workers' Party, which has been essentially in the hands of the government in those years. What we are doing now is following the Council of State's requests for a tightening up, and the intensification is simply asking the Government and the Council of State to ensure that dispensation practices are followed in line with national policy guidelines. It's in itself an incision. So you've been dealing with the 25 meter rule. It is, as the representative Lioness said, mentioned in a few lines in a message on 136 pages. The consequences of it have not been fully discussed in advance. But what we're saying from our side is that we actually want a broader approach to the problem. That is why we also write in our proposal, which we have now turned into a transmission proposal, that we ask the Government to investigate various measures, including a possible proposal for a new 25-metre rule. We go further in our approach to the problem than what the Workers' Party and SV do. But we don't necessarily agree that it's a law of a 25 meter zone that will now ensure that we get more access. With regard to this area that has to do with nature and the environment, we are in conflict – I do not know if this is a parliamentary expression. But at least we have a huge amount of conflict material lying around this whole issue. We have it in connection with predatory policies, we have it in connection with the establishment of protected areas, natural parks, etc. There we see that there are different interests that are opposed to each other. The question is, how long are we going to accept to live with such a high level of conflict? I don't think we can do that without disturbing the whole debate. Our assessment of what lies here from the Workers' Party and SV is that it will help to raise the level of conflict to heights that we cannot accept. When we adopt a broader approach to what has been the challenges of this debate, it has one main objective, and it is to find measures that can mitigate the level of conflict with regard to the different points of interest. So we've been attacked in the cold water by this because we're actually taking in, that there's something called property, that there's something called landowners, and there's something called publicity. It's these interests that are offensive to each other. When, among others: The Labour Party hastens the fact that the government parties actually also take this into account, I look forward with excitement to the forthcoming debate on predatory issues. What interests should be determined? Are these fundamental ownership rights or are there environmental challenges related to maintaining and ensuring diversity? Finally, I would like to inform you that we are making our proposal No. 5 to a transmission proposal, based on the positive signals that the Council of State included in its statement and in the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e995	The representative has then made proposal No. 5 to a transmission proposal. It shall be amended in line with that before the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e998	For most people in this country, getting into the woods and fields is fine recreation from everyday wear and strain. You get to use the body, clean the hard disk, and you get natural experiences that aren't many bad to experience. But in order for us as adults to use nature as recreation, we need to get the natural experiences while we're kids and young people. The fact that you're taken on a mountain skiing in the Passover while you're young makes you learn how to use nature. Not just skiing, but oranges and cocoa are part of the experience. Being in a boat along the coast in the summer and fishing crabs from the swabergs in the south and hedge herring on the fjord in the north gives good memories for young minds. Here in Oslo, trips in Marka are popular, so it shows that everyone, wherever you live, uses the outdoor opportunities we have in this country. The Norwegian Tourist Association has long claimed that as adults we should have a relationship with forest and land, the interest must be aroused when you are small. That must also be the starting point for politicians. The working party now wants to have the key changed, so that the tipping agents only go to sport and culture. This will provide more money for measures for children and young people, so that we get more to installations, but more importantly, there is more money to build up natural paths, marking and refurbishment of trails, free areas with opportunities for free activities, and, of course, some gapholes here and there to the dome under roof. I believe it is important that the environment and culture play a greater role in the future, in order to really facilitate a natural, good and safe growth for our children. There are many activities located in the boundaries between sport and outdoors, where outdoor organisations have important tasks to perform. Not all young people want to participate in organised sporting and cultural life, which is partly competitive, and these young people also need to be given some opportunities. Here nature is good to have. I think we're doing this together, but some things need to be physically organized. Some people say that forest, land, mountains and water are there, and can't understand why you're going to spend money on this. – It was just a small greeting to the Progress Party. I would say, there are citizens in this country who build cabin palaces, and who use helicopters to get there, while most of us take our legs when either we're going to use our own little cabins or unattended cabins in the mountains. It is therefore important that the prosperity and availability are good for most people, and we as authorities must contribute to this even though more and more people in this country also buy snowmobiles to transport food and family to their cabins during winter. I hope that the Minister for the Environment will eventually see the need for snowmobile driving to be regulated in a way other than just by a ban, so that the municipalities have the opportunity to solve the problems of this traffic in a fairer and more satisfactory way than today. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary to have this traffic covered by the Planning and Building Act in the municipalities as soon as possible. I know these problems, and it's urgent. At the end of the day, I have to say that it is a pleasure that the setting of the outdoor news has a good focus on children and young people, and perhaps in other matters in this room we should also focus more on these age groups. This could be done, for example, by: This means that instead of repairing in relation to the youth groups, we could actually prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1024	The debate has been very focused on the fact that the outdoor message was sent to Stortinget by the government of Stoltenberg and not drawn by the government of Bondevik II. This is of course because much of the outdoor message was agreed on, but the Sem-Declaration pointed to certain shades of vision, which the government fraction has incorporated in its processing of the message. There is a lot in the message that we can all join. We live in a country with plenty of space, lots of nature and rich opportunities for many to seek the pleasures of outdoors. However, the notification and many of the hearing bodies seem to overlook the fact that several Norwegians spend a lot of money getting a small cabin in the mountains or by the water, where they are looking for disconnection from work, urban activities and traffic noise. With at the base of 400,000 cabins/landings, where the vast majority of people are of normal standard, I think it's by and half a million people who grow outdoors from their cabins. We must therefore not introduce any further attacks on ownership in the name of Freilufts-Norges and believe that it will strengthen the natural experiences in total. When the Committee has not been able to gather on majority proposals – key issues such as the 100-metre belt from water and river, free movement along the shoreline whose house or cabin is more than 25 metres from the sea, and new over-control of the municipalities with regard to land borders – it is precisely to try to mitigate the level of conflict and not increase it. Let me say it this way: I don't have the sense for landowners who set up fences far out in the water to prevent movement, but when the message calls table and hedgehog, flagpole and bridge on the shores of the sea for shickey fences, then we're on the wrong roads. When you fly over our beautiful country in good weather, or as I did last weekend, the taxi boat got to drive along the beach in the Kragerø archipelago, then I can't understand the intensity of the Workers' Party's argument for law change. I can assure you that I saw no fences, but nature wasn't very hospitable if you wanted to go long distances along the beach. There would be a lot of mountain climbing and lots of jumps over deep jumps. Let's make sure everyone's right with the law we have. Let's assure the landowners that we still respect property rights in this country, but that we want a non-disappointing review to be prevented unnecessarily. Let's continue to respect the interior/garden as something other than outfield both in terms of which furniture or other equipment is located there, and the desire for a certain peace of privacy. And let's give the municipalities a certain right to also use their heads when considering deviations from national policy guidelines, even though the fraction agrees with the reminder sent by the Council of State to municipalities and statesmen. Then there's a problem, which I'll say is a pretty small problem, which is taken up and focused on in this debate as well. Should those between the ages of 16 and 18 be free of charge? I think you've come up with an acceptable system by saying that they should get a discount. But after living in a profession in which I have continuously made customer and purchase analyses by age groups, it is not my impression that it is the group that has the most difficult to pay 50-70 kroner to fish for a few days in the mountains or fields. So we must not exaggerate these problems. I think it's more important here to look at the principal sides. So I want to say to the case rapporteur: we all very much agree that to the extent possible, we should let our children have school places, kindergartens and playgrounds where there is a lot of green, where it is possible to climb trees, where it is possible to slide down a hill, and also a loop where it is possible to kick a little football. Wherever possible, it has to be like this. But it's a little easier to do it in Trysil than it is in Greenland or in other urban areas, where it's obviously pretty close and difficult to get. But I agree. Let's keep trying to make sure that children and young people are also given the opportunity to get out and to experience the many pleasures of outdoor life. There's a lot of possibilities. Let's make sure that those possibilities don't get broken. We're in on that, but we don't want to create more conflict than we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1041	Fortunately, in Norway we have good opportunities for outdoor activities. Lack of free space in relative proximity cannot be used as a reason for not being able to cultivate the pleasures of outdoor life. Even I have great joy of experiences in the open air. And even though I live in a press community near Oslo, I have no problem finding suitable areas. Even shell plowing with the children has not been problematic. That's my main point: we can organize a good outdoor life without attacking ownership. The debate has revealed that some, consciously or unconsciously, landowners face outdoor interests and almost blame some landowners for the lack of outdoor experiences — and in particular the lack of outdoor experiences for children and young people has been mentioned. I think this is very unfair. In addition, the representative, Mr Konglevoll, has said that the Progress Party is taking sides for the richest, because we respect fundamental ownership interests. Landowners may also be rich, of course, but it must be allowed to maintain important principles without being accused of caring for one group of income. I find all the attacks aimed at land ownership interests regrettable. The way you express yourself, I feel that I am involved in creating a conflict situation, and does not help to be anti-conflict, as the representative Halleraker correctly pointed out that you should add up. Based on what I've heard, I want to point out that landowners of the beach zone are also people, and that they also have children. Basic owners are as different as other people. I've even seen landowners using backpacks. Landowners are not necessarily more contentious than the population as a whole, and landowners may also have mortgages. I hope that for the future we can talk about landowners in a more inclusive form, and not that they are against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1053	It is with disappointment that I note that the majority of the committee has not chosen to support the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal for a separate law on sustainable use and protection of urban land. The first time such a proposal was made was under the government of Harlem Brundtland in 1981. The proposal was never dealt with and has been in the Storting with the status ‘exposed’. When the matter comes up again in connection with this message, there were many natural friends in the Oslo area who cheered, and many thought that it was really high time. Among other things, Oslo and Omland Outdoor Councils, an umbrella organisation for nature, outdoor and environmental protection organisations, have been strongly involved in the issue. Today, there is great disappointment that the majority chooses to reject the proposal. It is simply too weak that the majority apologises for this being a local responsibility, and is careful to encourage all major municipalities to develop their own governance plan. In the Oslo area, there are 19 municipalities and five counties bordering on Marka. The mark is therefore the main source of natural experiences and recreation for more than one million people. We know that Marka is in active use for the exercise of open-air life. And we know that the people of the Oslo area point to the proximity of Marka and to the fjord as the most positive thing about living there. This particular proximity to large natural and recreational areas is unique for Oslo in European urban contexts. But the pressure on the fields is high, and it's increasing. Housing, cabin construction, sports facilities, and others in and on their own good ends, make Marka threatened bit by bit. It may be convenient for one of these 19 municipalities to say: Just a little bit – for example. golf course or cabin field - nothing can be done. When responsibility for the administration of Marka is left entirely to the individual municipality, without any national, overall strategy, it can be easy for many of the municipalities concerned to think that way: a little bit does not much. But if only one of these municipalities does not follow an overall plan, it will have consequences for the whole region. As far as Oslo is concerned, we believe that we have the knowledge that is needed, and enough space to be able to build homes, without having to challenge the already existing land frontier. A thriving city and urban development will only lead to increased costs both for individuals and for society. So the mark limit, as we know it today, works as a common sense limit. Of course, the most important thing about the protection of Marka is that it uses the area actively as much as possible. A law of its own would create a better basis for supporting non-governmental organisations operating in Oslomarka. Cooperation with these organisations, kindergartens and schools could help children and families to become even better acquainted with Marka and the opportunities for nature and outdoor life there. If the majority today rejects a separate law on urban land, we have significantly waived a responsibility for future generations to have the same unique opportunities for natural and outdoor experiences as we and generations before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1064	There is no disagreement as to the importance of outdoor life for people's health and people's joy over good natural experiences. Outdoor life is probably more important than ever in relation to this. We live in a world with high speed and high demands for each one of us, and precisely nature can help to give us renewed energy and good quality of life. Therefore, I also think that the message’s title, ‘Freedom — A way to higher quality of life’ is a very descriptive heading. Outdoor life and quality of life are closely linked. I overheard a night on the radio for a time back in connection with the beginning of the feast, where the preacher took note that our time fasting might not be like the original fast in which one refrained from food and drink. Perhaps our time should rather be to turn off the mobile phone and the television set so that we can find peace. I think there's some truth in this. We need the tranquillity that not least the good natural experiences can give us. The term ‘free-air life’ may be so lacking. For some, it means being alone on a wide scale; for others, it can be a walk in planned neighbourhoods. The lack and availability are therefore important. We hear in these days about statistics saying that the Nordics in general are getting heavier, and that we are moving less. Over time, this has obvious links with the overall level of health among people. In this context, outdoor activities and outdoor activities are very important — not least for children and young people. The broad consensus that exists around the will to focus on the provision of this group is therefore positive – both politically and not least through the work of voluntary organisations. Barnas Turlag in charge that the Tourist Association is a good example in this regard. Children’s families need incentives and low-threshold services to encourage young people to engage in activities that do not necessarily include a computer screen or a television set. The debate on the open-air communication has partly focused on the balance between the availability of the public and the rights of the landowner. This is not least the case in relation to cabins at both sea and mountain. I think it is important to stress that in Norway we have over 350 000 recreational homes, and that these represent a very important part of the outdoor life. It is not unrealistic to assume that these over 350 000 leisure homes are used by at least 1 to 1.5 million people if we think of a standard family of about four. This implies that approx. each fourth person in that country may be presumed to be engaged in an important part of his/her outdoor activities in the context of cabin life and represents an important element of the quality of life of people. Then it is in many ways a pity that this part is partly negatively focused on in relation to questions about all-man rights. In most cases, the relationship between landowners and the movement of the general public works in an unproblematic way, but then there will always be examples of the opposite, and these would like to get an attention that leads us to believe that the problem is more comprehensive than what is real. This is unfortunate because the qualities of cabin life in outdoor life deserve a positive angle rather than a negative focus. The county council in Rogaland adopted at its previous meeting a coastal zone plan for the county, a coastal zone plan such as the Just mentioning some of the problem areas that have been addressed in the debate on this Communication, namely the coastal zone issue. It is worth noting that this work has taken place in cooperation between the county council, the county council and the municipalities. The work has been going on for many years and has resulted in a plan that reaps many praises. This has happened in collaboration and with a result that is a broad consensus. Online cooperation is important in order to identify solutions that are anti-conflict rather than conflict-making. The rights of the owner of the land must be safeguarded in a balance between safeguarding the rights of all persons. Through this type of local cooperation, we get reasonable approaches that take care of both local conditions and local follow-up of the plan's intentions. Taking into account local conditions is important because, along our vast coastline, we have very different conditions in terms of both pressure, accessibility and views on coastal management. That is why I am pleased that we do not get a geographical extension of the so-called national policy guidelines in the 100-meter belt. The osloford area has e.g. a completely different pressure and a completely different coastal nature from the Western coastline. I'm also pleased that this 25-metre rule is not likely to get a majority in this room today. Because, unlike the Workers' Party, which, in my view, runs a line on these issues that are conflict-making, we want to facilitate a minimum level of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1085	We are now done with the list of speakers as proposed by the Committee, and are now left with the three-minute speeches. We've now spent three and a half hours. The President has difficulty understanding that there are some particular political issues that have not been highlighted and debated so far. The President does not intend to propose any restrictions on the right of representatives to speak, but asks each representative to pay attention to the fact that there are many issues on the agenda to be dealt with before the departure of the Stortinge tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1090	It was a strong request to be short. For the Right, all-man's rights, biodiversity and natural experiences are absolutely central, and we want to protect these essential human values. It's obvious that sometimes everyone's right can conflict with other considerations, but we have a good deal to live with. In Oslo Right, we take some of the credit for having managed to keep the Marka resources as they are, without getting help from government, on a purely local basis: by establishing local values, what is commonplace in Oslo, namely the proximity of the natural areas. We've managed to steer away from the expansion forces, and we're still going to do that, and we still think we're the best fit for that job. In fact, there are a dozen municipalities around Oslomarka that we can see can have different priorities than what you have in Oslo. I can say quite briefly to the municipalities that want to build in Marka, whether it's Oslo or the communities, that they must be aware that then the pressure will be strong, both from the Stortinget and from the population. They should not do this, as this threatens the regulatory ghost in the background. I guess it should be one thing to notice. It's the way Oslomarka and other fields are one of the latest intangible values we have in a society that's constantly affected by consumption, and it's important to keep the scandal. It seems Oslo Right to do so, and I am sure that all the good forces – of course several more than us – intend to do the same. So pretty short to the beach zone and the 25-meter rule. Here the socialists are offering a conflict dimension that is almost incredible. You can almost be tempted to think it's purely conspiratory: that you want that situation, to get a high level of conflict, by bringing the public right into the porch to people. You know that in nature you can't really estimate how much is 25 meters. It could quickly be 12.5, and then we're on the porch of people. Is it really so that when you're going to enjoy nature and wave whelp, we want a situation that plays out both cabin users, neighbors and others who want to use the areas, against each other, so that we get angry people who fight? Of course, I don't mean that this is a conspiracy. I'm just saying that the thought might have sprung and might be going to strip someone. Finally, ownership. In my opinion, we have managed to live well with a combination of ownership and all-person rights, both in terms of the 25-meter rule, hunting and fishing rights and disembarkation rights. The Workers' Party now wants to limit districts' disembarkation rights. [[The President clubs.]] Then the districts should know what the Workers' Party intends to do with the interests of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1112	The President is going to be bone-hard in the case of the three-minute inserts, and recommends that the representatives close when the lamp starts to light.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1115	Outdoor life is perhaps one of the things that we should have striven to achieve national consensus. It is not a pleasant matter for us who burn for the outdoors, that we have such a divided committee as the one we have seen in the hall today. We shall remember that it was the old Fridtjof Nansen who invented the word "free-air life". When he did, he was going to find a word that described the activity we nordics do when we go on tour and use nature around us. He had two alternatives. One was ‘free-air life’ — it did — and the other was ‘natural life’. When he chose free-air life, we should remind ourselves that no other language has this word. Only in Norwegian do we have it. If something were to be national and collective, it had to be open-air. The Norwegian outdoors have roots in the tourist traditions of the urban people, and it has roots in rural harvesting traditions. If we had united these two, it would provide a cultural basis that could unite us about the important outdoor investment. When Einar Gerhardsen came home from German captivity after the war, he pulled straight up into Marka, put his face in the lightning and pulled the freedom with all the senses. And I've come to where I want to: to the field, which can be used by one million people, and for which we have to get a protection. I hear that the Council of State is pleased that he has made four small nature reserves in Marka. I am, too, very happy, at least as excited as the Council of State. But we should be honest and know that these nature reserves are primarily there to preserve biodiversity. For the management of and outdoor interests in Marka, there are other and larger challenges. The Council of State said that there were many overripe cases in the drawers of the Ministry of the Environment when he took over. He's right about that. And – to say it like that – he has a lot more to take off. One of the things that has been lying there since the late 1970s – as Bjørgulf Froyn mentioned – was promoted to the Stortinget by the government of Harlem Brundtland in 1980. This applies to Ot.prp. No 66 for 1980-81 concerning the protection of Oslomarka. In front of it, there were glittering investigations – which lie in the drawers of the Ministry of the Environment – that justify why we need such protection in order to ensure proper management. Unlike Trondheim – as the Council of State knows well, and as I'm not quite far away from myself either – there's a difference in Oslo. And that's that 19 municipalities and five counties are going to try to get to this together. And it's a challenge to have to win this every time. I hope that the Council of State will take a look at the drawers of the Ministry of the Environment, see that Fridtjof Nansen taught us that outdoor life is of national importance, and come back to Stortinget with such a law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1132	Over the last few years, thousands of new luxury products have been built — or we can use the term ‘recreational homes’ — up to the snowfield in many places in this country. 50 000 to 60 000 new recreational dwellings are planned in such areas in the coming years. The new leisure homes are considerably larger than the huts we have traditionally used to in this country. In the Gudbrand valley, one of the local energy plants has estimated that a modern holiday home on average uses more energy than a common all-year dwelling in the same areas, despite the fact that these leisure homes are used for a small part of the year. These recreational dwellings have largely enclosed water and sewage – and road to the door. All of this makes these dwellings require a lot of both land and energy. Many representatives have touched on this earlier today and said that these are important issues that belong to other debates, or that this is something the municipalities or landowners should decide about. It is not that simple, for these leisure homes are not to be built in ten years – they are now being built. The development of leisure housing as we see now has some positive, but also some negative, consequences that the Storting should decide to remedy now. The fact that thousands of recreational homes are now being built on thousands of standard homes as single dwellings in that part of the mountain that people are looking for to get away from stress and mass means a reduction in nature quality and increased environmental impact, both where the cabins are located, and elsewhere. A little simple we can say that the need for recreation on the White Mountain cabin is a direct reason why nature in the Upper Otta watercourse is being expanded, just to provide these leisure homes with energy-intensive luxury. When the cabin people in Hafjell are on a ski trip, they sit in the car and drive up a mile on the snowmobile to avoid going through the cabin area, before the ski gets on. For many municipalities, it is important to allow such a bit for bit-extension in vulnerable mountain nature to obtain money in the municipal register. It says something about the local economy. I shall wisely stay away from that debate now, but for many municipalities, it is a problem that it is not possible to plan more differentiatedly in these areas between the forest and the snowfield. With several land use categories in the Planning and Building Act, as SV proposes in proposal No. 16, municipalities will be given the opportunity to plan where recreational housing and roads are to be developed, where outdoor activities are to be carried out and where specific plans are needed to protect vulnerable species. I would ask that this proposal be supported now, and not in another debate in a few years' time. It's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1149	I think it is very good that there has been such a great and broad commitment to this matter. There is at least agreement on a good deal of things. But – and this is a big but – first to the Minister for the Environment, who now chooses to minimize the problem of the 100-meter belt expansion and also the question of the 25-meter zone and today calls it two small de minimis conditions. The Minister for the Environment has also said that today we are discussing the ‘beards of the pope’, which he refers to these proposals. I cannot interpret this in any other way than that he wants to exonerate that he has suffered defeat at his own hands here in Stortinget, and that there will be no concrete decisions here today. I can commend the Minister for the Environment for the protection and creation of national parks. It is the other governments that have arranged for it. But it doesn't help much to talk about the creation of national parks, which we agree with, when the discussion theme here is the beach zone. So to the claim that it's kind of just the governments Bondevik I and Bondevik II have done something about this. I think that is wrong. Let me be the first to say that there are many who have been too let go for many years when it comes to this thing with the beach zone. There are too many exemptions. Let me also remind the Minister for the Environment that on 27 June 2000, Siri Bjerke presented a comprehensive package of measures to ensure the coastal zone. There she said, among other things: the following: ‘Practice for dispensations in the 100 metre belt of the shore zone shall be included in a new reporting system. The first report is coming to the harvest. If these reports show that the municipalities still grant exemptions in the coastal zone undermining the public's open-air life, the municipalities could lose this right.» And now what we're saying, the Workers' Party and SV, is that the law should be amended. That will not be the case with the bourgeois parties. The Christian People's Party is trying on its side through many excuses today, even at this point, to say something other than what I think they really mean. And it is clearly shown that the Christian People's Party probably does not feel comfortable in this matter, in the company they are in. First, we know enough to make decisions now. If we don't, even larger parts of the beach zone will be inaccessible to most people. We don't need any more briefings and investigations. We need action now. So to the issue of the level of conflict: the level of conflict is high today, and I believe a clear law, as the Workers' Party and SV propose, will create clarity and thus reduce the level of conflict. Despite the harsh words of today, I hope the Government will take our suggestions seriously. I hope, and I think actually also, that both the Council of State Børge Brende and Brother Yngve Rahm in the innermost agree with our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1176	Still, there are representatives who sign up for posts, so it doesn't seem that the President's call fell into any particularly good soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1179	Then I would like to start by informing you that it has been ten years since the last time the Stortinget debated the open-air policy. That's probably what makes a lot of people need to report on the track. Only a few comments relative to Brother Yngve Rahm's post. It was simply what made me think it necessary to take the word again, because Brother Yngve Rahm pointed to an important moment, that, in his opinion, there is a consensus on the main lines. I then interpret the situation in such a way that one actually agrees with the views previously expressed by the Minister for the Environment, to strengthen the building ban in the 100-meter belt and to inculcate both planning and dispensation practices in the coastal zone. If we can come to such an agreement, we're going to have a little bit on our way. When one also knows that the Cooperation Agency has drawn up its proposals, it is possible to interpret it in that direction, and then it is positive. Now let's see what the vote will lead to. I just want to refer to an article in the evening post today, where the leader of the Outdoor Association, Inger-Lise Skarstein, points to some things that are not good enough, but that, therefore, Brother Yngve Rahm suggests that one can now be a few about. She says the following: ‘It is well documented that the beach zone is much less accessible to people than 20-30 years ago’. So there's a need to do something. That's her conclusion. Furthermore, the Riksrevision has revealed that cabin construction is being carried out too fully, and that exemptions are being granted. The leader of the committee says that there is no need for a change in law, but a tightening of practice. I interpret it so that the intensification will now come from the Government, and then in a completely different way from what has come from the Minister of Environmental Protection so far in the form of a letter. It refers to the leader of the Free Air Organisation as follows: ‘The Minister of Environment asked for a circular in March’s municipalities and counties to be cautious about granting exemptions from the ban on building in the beach zone. That's not good enough for Skarstein." It's not for SV either. Let me just conclude that the recording from the committee's leaders thus seems to indicate that we will get a tightening both in the 100-metre belt and in the 25-metre zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1202	The Danish humorist Storm P. has depicted two men in one of his incomparable drawings who conduct a profound conversation. One question: what do you think about the world situation? The other one answers: Nothing, I've got a scratch on my eye. This debate reminds me a little bit of exactly the proportion disorder that Storm P is trying to take on the grain. There is a comprehensive communication here on outdoor policy. As the representative of Langeland pointed out, it is ten years since Stortinget had a similar opportunity to debate outdoor policy. It would be thought that it made it a particularly important task for the Trade Union Committee to organise a constructive debate in plenary that manages to control the proportions and concentrate on the major and fundamental problems. Instead, we have had a debate on the basis of a committee position in which the committee conducts a line change in written form in the committee position. It is generally a little recommendable. But not enough with that: on top of that, you insist to reprise the same line change you entered in the setting, x number of times during a four-hour debate in Stortinget. It may not be necessary to notify with respect. So hunch is not this assembly that you are unable to perceive the point when the fractions have broken down by typing it into the committee setting. I think it is the responsibility of the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to have created a debate that is completely out of proportion, by adhering to what is said to be the promises of the Council of State – I am now quoting the committee position, page 5 – ‘the clear promises of the Minister of Environment to the Nordic Outdoors’. And you have to construct a big debate on that basis. That kind of belonged to my youth in a high school community. At the time, it existed, and it is possible that the reason for now wanting to introduce it as a practice in the United Kingdom is that such debate forums no longer exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1212	I take the floor first because Hallgeir H. Langeland's posts had a clear address for me, where he interprets, possibly interprets or misinterprets, what I had to stand for. I think there is one important recognition that we can at least have in common – it is also recorded in the setting – and that is that we need to be very careful, very careful, and we need action in relation to taking care of the beach zone. We agree on that. The question is, what is the best way to do it? Our starting point is that we have to do it in such a way that we can help mitigate the level of conflict that is as high as it is per. today. Then we believe, from our point of view, that it is absolutely necessary – quite in line with what is also the views of the Council of State here – to take inwards the fact, which I do not believe SV takes inwards, that there are different conflicting interests that are so strongly historically anchored that we need to take the necessary processes to ensure the minimum level of conflict. We'll invite you to. So we recognize that there are landowners, they're there, we recognize that there is a property right, it's there, it's covered in another law, and we can kind of not just pretend it's not the case. And it is based on the desire to reconcile different types of considerations that we take the rounds that are necessary, with the broad approach that is necessary, to mitigate the conflicts. As for the question of whether it is someone who has devalued the main points on which it has been particularly focused – it was Sylvia Brustad who was a little bit involved, and I agree with her – I would say that there is no basis to minimize those challenges, because they are big, and I feel in a sense that a nearly collective committee is giving very clear challenges in relation to those points. It is a problem in some parts of the country that we have a dispensation practice that is a threat to the 100 meter belt. We recognize that through comments. But at first we don't want to use the law. We want to use the law that is already there in a more effective and correct way, namely by ensuring an exemption practice in line with the law adopted by the Stortinget. If we do it – and this is what the Government will now contribute to – it is, in our opinion, an intensification in itself, and it is in itself a step in the right direction in terms of strengthening the consideration of the beach zone. But we have a common understanding that we have a problem, a challenge – the way to do it can be a little different – while acknowledging that we have other reasons to take than just being able to walk freely in all beach areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1221	It wasn't meant to take the word again. I had the intention of following the President's call. But when the case rapporteur, who is a capable and precise politician, reproduced me in such a way that it might be misunderstood, I felt it was necessary to take the floor. Case rapporteur Sylvia Brustad said that I had mentioned this with the 25-meter belt and the 100-meter belt as two de minimis cases. But if the representative Brustad had added the credit, she would have realized that what I said was that there was a de minimis difference between what the government parties had put up to, and what the opposition had proposed. And there's no de minimis difference, I think, to say it carefully. The Government Parties propose that the proposal for the 25 metre belt and its possible implementation should be forwarded to the Ministry for further investigation. I had hoped that the opposition too could have gone for such a transmission proposal. I understand that you may have some problems with that, but ask that you think about it again. In the case of the 100-metre belt, the representative Langeland said that now the government has to do something to strengthen what is the starting point, that it is not to be built in the 100-metre zone. But we have. That was one of my points in the post as well. On 8 March I wrote a letter entitled Sharpening planning practices and dispensation practices in the beach areas. There is a review of the enforcement of this provision. The problem is not the law. The problem is that many governments over several years have not been clear enough to allow state officials and state agencies to exercise their right of objection in cases where it is obvious that this conflicts with the rights of all persons. But of course there are many different things. Some cases may be of a factory in the West to be transformed into a residential area. It is not an obvious matter, where you should then say no that something should happen within the 100-metre belt. So there could be a natural pearl that someone wants to rebuild, where the statesmen of course are going to avail themselves of this right. So now let both the municipal autonomy and the various state agencies try this starting point! In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the rapporteur concluded that there is now agreement on many important points here, and that there are two remaining. And as Minister for the Environment, I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1234	Unfortunately, when I have to ask for the word one more time, it is to answer the unspeakable attacks that came from Inge Wohnung. I have to say that the way the Vice President of the Great is acting – from top to bottom in a way, and where he accuses the Workers' Party of being responsible for creating a debate completely out of proportion, and accuses the vote and the remarks that lie there, to be at high school level – I actually want to have myself asked. I must also say that I have a very good conscience for the job done in relation to this case, and in relation to what the Workers' Party stands for. And I'm absolutely sure SV will say the same thing. However, what is alarming in this matter – and that is what we have allowed us to say, and it should perhaps be in the Stortinget, which is said to know the most, have something on it – is that when a government chooses to leave a message that another government has submitted, it must be because one agrees with the main points of that message. If not, this message should have been dragged, or an additional message should have been created for the freebusy message. What happens then is that the bourgeois parties in this house – despite the signals given by the Minister of the Environment and the Government – choose another way on essential points. Then we have to be allowed to both write in the setting and say from this pulpit that we think it is alarming that this is happening. We have the right to say that we think it is alarming that when it comes to the heel and the choice is to be made, one chooses to stand on some essential points on the rights of the landowners over the public. In fact, I think that a boat should listen to and trust what an environmental protection minister says, and I think it is alarming that this is the opposite of what is happening here on some important points. I think the Right must tolerate that. I also think that we must be allowed to say that, without being accused by the President-in-Office of the Great Britain of holding a debate that is completely out of proportion. It's the government parties that have been acting in a special way here. We have to be allowed to say that. And I would have asked myself to get the kind of accusations that I got from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1245	Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1248	The President shall have the line in one minute, if the President so decides. But there is a member of the Presidency who makes it necessary for me to go up to the pulpit again. It is a little regrettable that in a debate in which there are actually some political contradictions that one could have seen if one had followed in the debate and read the various proposals that have been put forward here today. But we can take that quite calmly. Being over-judges and handing out dice in the debate, one would like to be allowed, but it hardly raises the level of acting in such a way. Brother Yngve Rahm pointed to an important thing. In fact, there are some areas on which we disagree. The working party and SV want to strengthen the permissions of the open-air organisations. The working party and SV want to have more free space. The working party and SV want to bet on children and young people, and on natural gardens and natural shelters. So there's a bunch of things that we can't actually become a few, and that we should become a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1255	The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy say that a representative has the opportunity to speak twice in one case, and if he absolutely wants to have it a third time, he will have the floor for a brief comment. That paragraph of the Rules of Procedure is what the President is dealing with. Except for this provision, the rapporteur and the Council of State of the department of which the case falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1258	I have neither made accusations nor thwarted cubes from the pulpit of the Storting. On the other hand, in solidarity with my colleague, the President, I have pointed out that someone who has followed today's debate may find that there is a disproportionate relationship between the scale and importance of the matter and what has been spent on by the committee. And I've allowed myself to point out that I don't think it's a good thing that professional committees in Stortinget bring in line changers in the setting. But, of course, no one is forbidding it. It is up to the Committee on the ability to clarify consensus and disagreement through the work of the Committee in order to avoid repeating x times on exactly the same line of reasoning in the Chamber. The matter is not better or more important or better explained as a basis for decision by running it over and over again. And I've allowed myself to point out that if you want to achieve something in case of what you're burning for, it might not be the best way to do it in magnifying microscopic differences of opinion to the greatest possible dimensions and making the most noise around them. But of course, we live in a free, democratic society, and in this Parliament, as in other parliaments, all parties are free to choose whether to make noise or whether to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1263	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2252]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1279	Mr Arne Sortevik, representative of the Party of Presidents, has in Document No. 8:17 for 2001-2002 requested clarification and clarification of the calculation basis for water and sewerage charges in the municipalities of the country. It is proposed that a regulation and/or circular be drawn up as soon as possible, stating that the annual cost of capital used for the calculation of water and sewerage charges in the municipalities should be based on the lifetime and calculated interest of the installations and not on financial expenditure. Furthermore, it is requested that the Government intensifies the control responsibilities of the county officials in this area, in order to ensure that citizens are protected against errors in the charging calculations. As the Ministry’s response shows, today’s legislation takes account of the wishes of the proposer, and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will ensure that the necessary information is provided to the municipalities and county councillors. On behalf of the Committee, as the rapporteur, I would like to present the Committee's recommendation to the European Parliament to take the following decision: ‘Document No. 8:17 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1295	The proposer points out that uncertainties in the legislation concerning the calculation of water and sewerage charges and inadequate follow-up by control bodies require a revision of the regulations in addition to a tightening of control responsibilities. It is in Document No. The 8 proposal refers to the experience of the municipality of Bergen, where an administrative audit project has been carried out, where the municipal audit has carried out a thorough review of the calculation basis for water and sewerage charges in the municipality. The conclusion of this report, issued in May 2001, shows that the municipality has not carried out a charging calculation that is in accordance with the principle of self-sufficiency. In addition, the municipality of Bergen has allowed an external consultancy agency to restate the fee base for the above-mentioned fees in the period 1991-2000. The main conclusion of the Agency's consultation report is: ‘The amount of the fees used by municipalities is thus total for the period of 850 million. kr higher than the PWC after-calculation.’;» The supervisory authority has approved all charging accounts and, in addition, rejects both the audit report and the consultant’s report. In my opinion, these obvious deficiencies, which have been identified in the municipality of Bergen and which have been duly documented to the members of the committee, are very serious. There is also reason to believe that such cases may well occur in other municipalities. In a letter to the Committee dated 28 February 2002, the Landesverband of the Houseowners writes that it is a major problem that there are no binding rules on how municipalities are to calculate the cost base for municipal fees, such as water and sewerage fees, construction fees, etc. They continue to write: ‘Therefore, the communities it wishes can raise significantly more money than the actual costs of their service without any consequences or return the money to those who have paid too much.’ I am therefore both amazed and disappointed that the department and the majority of the committee are taking this matter so easily and almost reject the whole issue. The progress party is incredibly alone enough to ask for a revision of the regulations, so that the taxpayers receive a proper fee and not a fee based on a faulty basis. We are also on our own to get a pinch against the country's country's statesmen in terms of their control function, so that similar cases like those we've seen in Bergen can be revealed. I think it is amazing that the bulk of the population quietly admits that the municipalities can still charge excessive charges to their inhabitants without doing anything. I would like to include in the vote the two proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1319	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2254]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1337	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1346	Sometimes there is a shortage of labour. Work immigration is a way to go, as the Government has suggested. However, justification for increased participation in the work of older workers is very important. I think it's going to be popular to add older people in the future. They – or maybe I have to say – have experience, competence and often perseverance and trust, and most people are used to taking a roof. The average retirement age in Norway shall be 58 years, and it is well early to end the professional career. Demographic prospects show that Norway cannot afford such a retirement age. For this reason, the Government and the social partners have also been able to reduce the employer’s pay for employees over 62 years of age from 1 July 2002. In this Document, No: The 8 proposal proposes reducing or removing the employer’s fee for all over 55 years. The majority think it's reasonable especially to put down the limit further now. When the 62-year limit has been a reality, it must first work for a while, and then we must evaluate the result. However, there is a need for measures both to get older jobseekers to work and to make older people want to stand longer in the job. Senior Policy Centres have developed a five-year action plan on the ombudsman council to provide work for the elderly. In December 2001, the size decided to increase the free amount of workers between 67 and 70 years of age in order to make it pay to work properly for a long time. The future scenario is that fewer and fewer young people will have to bear an ageing population. The population mix in large parts of the Western world is actually illustrated as a top heavy Christmas tree, where the tribe is the relatively few children; the adult population is more extensive, but then the elderly wave a very voluminous peak. Incentive to work for a long time is an important part of the mandate of the recently lowered Pension Commission, and that is reasonable in relation to this age commitment. And why not? Peter F. Drucker, a European capacity on demography, says that the 80-year-olds of the future are getting so healthy and so spread that it is reasonable that they do a job. Now I think that 80 years is to pull the knit well long, but we must at least remove or build down mechanisms that make older workers feel that they are being knocked out even if they want to stand longer in the job. We don't want it that way, and we can't afford it either. The intention agreement on a more inclusive working life from the fall is thus also among the measures that need to be taken before we start even more. The Committee also stresses the need for a more humane working life, where speed should not be too high, where there is less wear-out, where stress is reduced and where the necessary skills are available. I therefore recommend the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1363	There is an important question raised by the proposer in this Document No. The 8th proposal. In recent years, there has been an increasing tendency for people to stop working before the ordinary retirement age of 67 years. The number of unearned pensioners has increased, and more and more are benefiting from voluntary early retirement schemes such as: fixed-term pension. It must therefore be a central policy objective to stop or rather reverse the trend towards increased early retirement. At the same time, it is important to consider individual wishes and needs. Some elderly people are worn out after a long professional career and may need to step down a little. Others simply want to have a longer pension, but there are also conditions that draw towards the fact that more people can actually continue to work longer. Today’s 60-year-olds are healthier than before, and it is also possible to facilitate work for older workers. There is no doubt that the elderly are in an outsourced position in the labour market. We see, among other things, older people more than younger people have to leave work in connection with conversion and depopulation. Lack of skills in relation to new requirements is also an important explanation of why many older people have problems keeping a job or possibly getting a new job. In order for more people to continue working longer, it is important to implement measures that stimulate older people to continue and to counteract attitudes or practices that cause older people to become out of work. The goal must be to give older people a real chance to work. There are now many good schemes that stimulate this, and more will come. It is now important to look at how these schemes turn out before a concrete action plan is drawn up. It is also important to note that older people are a composite group. There are many that are most outstanding, but want to work a little less. It must also facilitate this. The Committee also points out that it is important to increase the ability to combine work and social security. This means that working life must be organised in such a way as to make this possible and that the tax and social security systems must be set up to combine work and social security. Social security and social security must be set up in such a way that they encourage a little work to be made possible and profitable. But it also requires a working life designed for those with reduced working capacity, those who want to combine work and social security, and those who want to combine work and care, or education and work. Both private and public employers must take care that workers in different parts of their lives have the opportunity to provide differently. In a working life where individual competence becomes an increasingly important resource, all workers must be able to develop on the job, build on or build on their skills and have an impact on their own work situation. It is important for everyone to be able to use their abilities and resources. Finally, I would like to mention the AFP scheme, the so-called contractual pension. This scheme is gradually being used by many people. The free amount of lG was removed a while ago and replaced by NOK 4000. A majority of the Stortinget decided at the last budgetary procedure that this amount should be increased to NOK 15 000. This is also a moment that needs to be considered more closely, if an additional increase in the amount of free time could stimulate even more people to participate more in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1380	Labour shortage is one of the major challenges we are going to face in the next few years. An important resource that can fill that gap, at least contributing to the reduction of the problem, are older workers. The retirement age in Norway, the real one, is unfortunately 58 years old today. Positive measures to raise this are therefore important. I am very pleased with the strong commitment of the Council of State to this matter. Both this government and the previous government have already put in place several measures to stimulate the employment of older workers and for older people to remain longer in work. The measures include, inter alia: an increase from 1 to 2 G in the amount of the old-age pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age and an agreement between the Government and the social partners on an inclusive working life. Unfortunately, both public and private employers see far too little the broad competences of older workers and leave to employ and retain people in this group. This is a paradox in a situation in which many employers, enterprises, and not least agencies, are screaming for skilled labour. This is nothing more than a waste of resources, and employers need to go on their own. It is important that the Reduced Pension Commission and the Tax Commission look at how changes in the pension and tax systems can help older workers to stand longer in work. There is clearly a need for cooperation between all the parties involved in order to minimise this human resource release.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1389	I believe that all political parties have good thoughts and ideas about how to address the issue we are dealing with, especially when we also know that in the coming years, the age structure will lead, for example, to an increase of 20 pst from 55 to 60 years of age. That gives the problem a certain dimension, and of course it also brings the matter up to a higher level in terms of priorities. For the Progress Party, it is important that the labour market takes advantage of the entire workforce, all the available workforce, and of course that of the older part of the population. Of course, we are also interested in doing this in a good way and through good framework conditions. For the Progress Party, there is no problem, for example: to do something about the employer’s contribution for older workers, but primarily the Progress Party wants to replace the current employer’s contribution with a health premium and a pension contribution to the social security fund, where the premium is to be equal throughout the country. It is also desirable, in the view of the Progress Party, to provide both the elderly and other workers for that purpose, and the enterprises, framework conditions which make cooperation in this area more attractive. However, the Progress Party believes that an investigation now of different instruments and framework conditions in the form of an action plan is not necessary, but will, like the Committee, await all the measures taken. I notice that there are several representatives who now call for us to stop, and someone says turn around, the early retirement that happens. This is where I feel that there are people who meet themselves in the door. Because at least some parties have used very large resources to actually make sure that large parts of the population are paid to get out of work. Of course, I'm thinking about AFP. I think it's a little strange when we hear the representative Gitmark say that the average retirement age in Norway is 58 years, that we have to pay a lot of workers to retire. I could also refer to a whole range of schemes that Stortinget has implemented to prevent people from entering the labour market, among others. with post-paid, etc. In particular, this applies to the public sector. And then when we know, as others point out, that it's screaming for competent labour, it's strange to me that such schemes are still going to be in place. It cannot be the case that people who have had good and high positions in the public sector, and who are currently on the pay side, cannot be attractive in the labour market. I don't understand. Such arrangements should certainly have been reviewed with a view to – of course – removal. It is also pleased that more and more people are paying attention to the need to combine work and social security. The municipal committee also has two other issues to deal with that show that we may not have the full and complete overview of what is happening around the country in terms of people who have some problems getting into the labour market, and so this with reintroduction. I hope that in this context we too will be able to create a majority in the Chamber, so that we also put great emphasis on that area. Otherwise, I would just like to conclude by saying that the Progress Party hopes that, at a later stage, when we get the results of the measures, we will show the willingness to go into further plans to take out the labour that actually exists in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1404	When I am on a tight arm answering what Per Sandberg said at the end of his post, I would like to encourage the Progress Party to also look at other arrangements where you pay people to stay away from work, such as. the cash support. If this is about getting the most out of work, we have to look at all the arrangements, and the cash support scheme is one of the new ones that have contributed to the lack of important and skilled labour. The working line has been adopted for many years, without necessarily being followed up by an administrative apparatus capable of handling it, or by policy instruments that have made this a reality. You have to realize that there are many people who are not able to stand by retirement age. It's a big problem that people who are 60 years old and maybe a little bit above it, this is out, but I think if you're going to solve this, you have to look at what's going on in the past. People don't get worn out all of a sudden in their 58-60s. It's been a long time, so if you're going to attack this, you have to get a more human and inclusive working life that allows people to cope with retirement, and then the slack probably has to come to many before, or the organization in some cases. I want to say two things first. One is that we need to focus on those who are exhausted. The second thing we need to focus on is that people have gradually earned and earned so good pensions that they don't have their marine image attached so much to work anymore, but to vacation and leisure and other jobs, so that they actually choose this. I think that for part of those who have an economic freedom to choose early retirement, the carrot must be quite large, because it feels so positive to be able to get out of work. But as far as the others are concerned, those who are being worn out and excluded, it is clear that we have a far greater responsibility to contribute. 40 years and over, is an expression that has been used in the health sector for some years, and that is a reality. That means that we as public authorities, as granting authority and legislative authority, have to take a great responsibility for people not being worn out when they work in the public sector. In particular, the health sector, the so-called consolation and support professions, and there has been such a long time. Now the new type of burnout also starts to hit a lot of very active and well-paid men, and then the theme gets a little hotter. But the ladies in the care sector have worn off for a long time, and many of them have fallen into a reduced position and taken this economic loss seam. There has been tradition of this, so that there has not been a large amount of pension expenditure associated with these women. The second piece I want to focus on is competence. One is that one can be worn out, the other is that one can easily be retired in terms of skills, and therefore the reform of continuing education is so central. Here, too, we, as the granting authority and legislators, have a great responsibility to ensure that this reform becomes a reality, because it can ensure that you also have the necessary skills to change jobs, if you have to do it for health reasons, or because the job changes and in other ways becomes too tough. I also think that if we're going to have an inclusive working life and expect people to stand longer in work, we have to endure a high level of sick leave. And we have to choose that. We can have a working life that makes people less sick, but the more people who are in work and the longer it is, the more we have to be prepared to endure that it must also be allowed to be ill. We have to let go of these debates on the sickness pay system, etc. Every single time this topic is going up, because we can't have an inclusive working life while we don't tolerate having a sick leave. So I might want to challenge the Council of State a little bit, because his party colleague, Gitmark, said that business also has to go along with it. The public sector can be more controlled than the other business community, and then I want to ask the Council of State: What does the Government think the government can do in relation to business otherwise to ensure that we are both more open to employing people who are 45+, as it says on senior policy documents, but also to facilitate a more inclusive and human work life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1419	Let me start with the following quote: ‘There are many forms of waste of resources. The most serious thing is to leave behind the working capacity and knowledge of the population.’ This is what Victor Norman wrote in an article in Today's Business in October last year. I totally agree with that, and I think there's a lot of agreement in this room. But there's a difference between impatience and what you think monks are getting, for example. older workers into the labour market again. Many of those who lose their jobs after they reach the age of 50 do not get a new job despite the fact that there is a large shortage of labour, and despite the fact that studies show that professional performance and learning skills do not deteriorate with age. Many of those who have ended up being disqualified or retired prematurely against their will have a high level of competence in addition to the positive characteristics of stability, experience and loyalty. I know some of these that have fallen outside, and the media has communicated many other singles. There are people who expect to be at their best age, who will work for many years yet, but who do not get a response to their job applications, or who get an answer that increases their feeling of being outlawed. One told us that despair almost led him to suicide. It is not so strange that you feel left over or left out when the newspapers tell you about the huge shortage of labour and about proposals for large imports of labour from distant countries, while you get your application back. First of all, consideration is given to these individuals who are behind the call for a multi-action plan by the Centre Party. We want the country's leadership to give a strong signal that anyone who wants to participate with their workforce. The people we are talking about need such a signal not to give up, but also the employers absolutely need such a signal. They need help to rediscover those over 55 years of age as a valuable workforce. And who then has to take responsibility for making that change, is at least pretty clear to me. But then I read in proposition from the previous government about the intention agreement on an inclusive working life, expressing concern about declining professional participation. In order to prevent such undesirable early departure, the authorities need to create a framework, but it is the individual company that has to have the primary responsibility, as it says. I think we're going to realize that it's society the involuntary unemployed is most disappointed. It's society that is reaping the greatest benefits of today's waste of labour being combated, and we're here in the Stortinget that has the primary responsibility to do something about it. According to ECON Centres for Economic Analysis estimates, society could have an additional value creation of DKK 13 billion a year on the effective retirement age was the same as 20 years ago, in addition to saving costs due to reintroduction, pensions and dissatisfaction. When we look forward, the gains are even greater. Over the next 10 years, the number in the group will decrease from 25 to 34 years by 108 000, while the group will increase from 55 to 66 years by 16,000. It is agreed that the lack of labour can have a major impact on private value creation, and not least on public welfare production. I think the intention agreement on an inclusive working life has many positive measures, but the Senter Party believes that a separate plan is needed for those over 55 years of age. We have come to the conclusion that the situation is such that economic incentives are needed to bring business with it, and we propose that the employer’s fee be removed or reduced a great deal. We believe that there is a need for more measures and an equal degree of participation in such an action as the one that has succeeded in underpinning the Memorandum of Understanding. The attitude of the Municipal Committee shows that there is absolute interest and positiveness in the subject. I have noticed that a joint committee asks the Government to assess whether the employer’s fee should be reduced also for groups of less than 62 years of age. Yet, it is concluded that you want to wait and see. The results of measures and investigations initiated by the Pension Commission and the Labour Law Committee will be awaited. The positive thing about the situation is that there are now so many who will help focus on those who are not included in our working life – all over the country. Senior policy will become a more central issue than before. We've got a senior policy center. Social security offices have acquired conditions for senior workers as their field of work. Most people and the media will be more interested in the many unemployed and willing hands when job vacancies are filled by non-residents who do not live here. I will be allowed to promote the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1453	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1456	Let me first join the author of the proposal and the Committee on the substance of the matter. It is extremely important for us to motivate for increased participation in the work of older workers. They represent a resource that society urgently needs. Personally, I think, for example, It is a pleasure to have been able to illustrate that it is possible to get a new job when you are 55 years old, and there are very many others who should be in the same situation. That being said, we must also have the perspective that the consideration of leisure also comes in. There are many who seem to have reached a level of prosperity and interest that makes them not necessarily want to work full-time until retirement, and there are also legitimate desires. So we have to make sure that in senior policy we do not lead a line of work that is perceived as a coercive line to people who want to choose from parts of the world of work, and are willing to pay for it themselves – to say it that way. In this respect, I would like to remind you that Norway has one of the highest rates of employment in the OECD region, and we have a high level of professional participation in international relations for people in their 50s. So in the work of senior policy, we have to make sure that we facilitate the conditions for those who want to work to do so, but that we do not exercise a social pressure that forces people to use their whole life in a way that they may not be interested in themselves. It is the interests of the individual worker that we have to take care of first and foremost. Just for saying that. That being said, there are too many people who want to work longer than they do, and who have the prerequisites for working longer than they do, but who do not get that opportunity today. I think it's important to distinguish two aspects of that problem. One problem relates to the possibility of getting a new job when you get up a little bit in the years, and the other is to prevent people from getting into a situation where they will have to find a new job when they get up for a while in the years. I think we're going to realize that it's more difficult to get older workers a new job than it is to prevent them from being excluded from an old one. So to the extent that we want to get good results in terms of effort, the main effort must be put in place to prevent exclusion. There are a number of instruments that need to be used to contribute to it, and both Apelthun Seele and Peter Gitmark have been involved in many of the key areas. I just want to add to and underline what Upbeøen Hansen was into, and that Karin Andersen was into, that, in addition to well-defined instruments, we must not forget that there is a very active development and follow-up of the individual worker at the individual workplace long before reaching the exclusion stage. Many of those who are outcast by what Karin Andersen calls the "comfort and support professions" are people who could have had a very good time having a pleasant and exciting and challenging job in the health sector up to 67 years, if only at an early stage we had been able to get them out of the heaviest jobs and over to other jobs that are equally central to the health sector. Driving and getting active staff development, especially in the public sector, is an important part of this work. I would also like to stress that in the work to prevent exclusion, the public has to lead by example. If the state and municipality are not willing to care for older workers as the resource they are, we cannot expect business to do so. In addition to this, we need to ensure that employers are more positive about employing people who are up in the years than has been the case before, and once again, the state and the municipality have to set a good example. We can do that. We are aware of the resource of older workers. There are questions about changing some of the addition culture in the country and municipality, and for the state, we are working to change that culture. Karin Andersen asked what we can do about business. And then I want to say three things: first, the state and the municipality can probably motivate business by going ahead with a good example. Secondly, it is a question of good information about the resources that older people represent. It's a responsibility primarily for Aetat. And finally, a lot of the HMS work in the companies is essential for us to be able to prevent exclusion, and there we have the opportunity to work actively to get business to take the HMS work even more seriously. If we do these things, I think we can get far. I just want to join the committee that thinks that we should first see how these measures work, before we move on and create a new action plan or introduce additional instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1481	The disagreement here today concerns the age at which measures to prevent the exclusion of older people or to ensure that they become more than a few years old are to be put in place. Reference is made to the fact that the average real retirement age today is 58 years, while the measures contained in the commitment agreement for an inclusive working life are inserted at 62 years. It is clear that there is a reason to use 62 years, because then the AFP scheme comes into play as an additional temptation. But now we're going to add a cost of 720 million. kr per year, through the reduced employer’s fee of 4 pst. for those over 62 years of age. My question is how long to assess whether this results, and whether it produces enough results, before looking at what a unanimous committee says about considering going down, i.e. towards a lower age group, with that measure, and possibly a stronger measure. I would also like to remind you that what is an incentive for businesses, just a tax haven, an economic incentive that can be important to our business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1490	It is of course important and natural to also evaluate and assess whether to reduce the employer’s contribution from 62 years. However, I would like to remind you that one of the reasons why you go down is that you calculate that your working capacity on average is relatively much reduced in any case. When we talk about the group down to 55 years, we're really talking about a working group that there's no reason why it shouldn't be at least as profitable for companies to hire as younger workers. And then going into schemes that in practice mean subsidising the use of that type of labour, is something I think one should consider as if not the last resort, so at least one way down the list. There are issues that state, municipality and private enterprises realize that it makes sense for them to hire and retain workers who are in their 50s. That's what it's all about. And to do that, I think we should first try other instruments than economic subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1497	This is more a question than a concrete line. My question is as follows: I've received input from a lot of different people, including the Right People, the Good Adult Right People, who say there's a big problem with older workers. Of course, enterprises that employ people act economically rationally, and it is more expensive to hire older workers in cases where they have pension agreements, because the main increase in the cost of pensions for individual employees is increasing as age increases. My question to the Council of State is: Is this a problem that the Council of State has intended to address in any way, and with which he feels it is important to have something done?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1506	It is not a question that is very high on the list of things I want to do with, for the simple reason that if this was the main explanation of the problems, older workers could easily get a job in those parts of the Norwegian economy where you do not have this problem, for example. in the country or in the establishments which do not have occupational retirement provision. I have not seen any material that indicates that it is easier for older workers to get jobs in places where they do not have occupational pension schemes that are expensive for businesses if they look older. If it turns out that this is a serious problem, and a main explanation of the problems, it's clear it might be interesting to discuss the issue. But as I see it, the problem is so general and so disconnected from the pension question that it's hardly where the shoe really presses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1511	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor either, and the debate on substance. So 3 is over. [[See page 2254]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1529	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there are no lines given after the individual speeches, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who is the head of the Committee and the rapporteur for the matter. She's not here. – Then we move on to the person who stands as no. 2 on the list, Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, we'll see if Magnhild Melting Band Kleppa shows up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1536	I can first inform you that the case spokesperson is not present here in the house and will not come to the debate. As you know, a selection of its own has been set to carry out a full review of today's work environment law. Of course, the issue of working time will also be considered. The working party is of the opinion that it is important to have full loyalty to the work being done by the Partyal Selection. If a lot of time has to make small changes to the code while the selection is still working, it will make it harder to carry out a holistic review. I would like to remind you that the mandate for the selection is precisely to go through the working time areas of the work environment law, with a view to extending the possibilities for individuals to adapt working time to the best fit their life situation, while at the same time taking care of their needs. The individual frameworks and conditions for the duration and position of the work shall be further assessed with a view to achieving greater flexibility both for individual workers and for the activities. It is then understood that the Labour Party does not want to draw this matter out of the discussion about a new labour law. Opening up an individual’s ability to make an agreement with employers will undermine collective agreements and put a great deal of pressure on individual employees. We also see no urgent need to relax on the rules of the day, and we will therefore reject this. On the same basis, we criticised the Government earlier when it came to the Ministry’s proposal to soften the overtime situation. These are also changes that could have an impact on other elements of the working time chapter. The individual elements of decisions relating to working time are closely linked, and it is, in our opinion, absolutely necessary to see them collected. In this context, the Ministry should also withdraw its submission in the hearing note. When it comes to the proposal from the Progress Party to introduce greater flexibility in the bill of lading related to night work, I also find reason to suggest that there is a great deal of research on increased use of night work. The conclusions are quite clear, i.e. that night work is far from health-promoting, and that night work should be limited from a health perspective. In our opinion, it would be totally irresponsible if the Stortinge were now to adopt changes without a thorough analysis and a thorough assessment in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1553	The proposal taken up by the Progress Party highlights an important issue. Government parties have a strong understanding that many businesses and workers perceive today’s legislation as both rigid and problematic. Despite the temptation to address this issue now, the Government shares the Government's assessment that a member of the Labour Law Committee should await the suspension of the labour law committee and come back to this matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1558	The President must ask the representative Gitmark if his intervention was such as to understand that he took up the proposal that the Right and Christian People's Party has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1561	That's it!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1566	The representative of Gitmark then addressed that proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1569	First, I want to say that I am happy that we are now getting a review of the Working Environment Act. It's high time. But I probably can't hide that I'm a little disappointed by the views and attitudes of the Government and the Right and Christian People's Party in this matter, because it should actually be the majority for this proposal here in the Grand Duchy today. Actually, these lots are, according to all probability, precisely the changes in the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on night work proposed here by the Progress Party. There is also an undue amount of wonder when the government parties cannot vote in favour of this proposal now, because for some reason this matter is to be dealt with absolutely later in an overall review of the Working Environment Act, to which reference is to be made. But this overall treatment of the Working Environment Act does not apply to the Government's own proposals! However, when it comes to amending the opening time law, you can change the work environment law without waiting for this comprehensive review of the law, so that shopkeepers can now access night work, while technology employees now have to wait for some strange reason. The proposal of the Progress Party to soften the provisions of the Working Environment Act on night work is intended to improve the framework conditions for some Norwegian technology companies, in order to strengthen their international competitiveness by, inter alia, improving them. use expensive production equipment with a short service life, 24-hour continuous. In technology companies night work is actually prohibited. Where appropriate, night work must be based there on exemptions from the Labour Inspectorate or from the club. Based on the dependence of night work exemptions on an enterprise is an uncertain situation in length. This is not a desirable situation, and the companies themselves state that something needs to be done in this area. Unfortunately, I note that more and more technology companies are now flagging from this country to countries offering better framework conditions for this type of enterprise. Then we're sitting here on the Stortinget and, as I said, we're probably agreeing on the matter that we're talking about here, but we're not going to be able to implement even the smallest changes to create better framework conditions for individual Norwegian technology companies. There shouldn't be any good reason to wait with these changes it's about here, just because a sample will definitely look at this matter sometime in the future. And besides, this will take too long. It didn't take that long for the shop clerks, so why should a wait for the technology staff? I can mention that I was now in contact with current companies in the technology industry and informed them about the position here at Stortinget. They said that this is urgent for us, that we need to sort things out in these circumstances. They said they hardly have time to wait any longer. Now there is a dispensation, but that dispensation can be cancelled at any time, and then their framework conditions will get so significantly worse that they see no other way out than flagging out. This is the case in the companies I have been in contact with, that both the employees, the clubs and the management agree that there must be greater space, greater flexibility, in the provisions of the Working Environment Act for night work. So this job-friendly action is stopped, which would help to strengthen Norwegian jobs and the competitiveness of Norwegian technology companies. It's being stopped here today in Stortinget. I would also like to ask that the proposals of the Progress Party, which I am putting forward, be raised to vote first, so that we can vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. The minutes shall then be attached at least to the proposal of the Party of Presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1587	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President shall seek to meet the wish for such a voting order for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1592	I fully agree with the Committee's position that we should not be dealing with this matter now. We reject it because we are opposed, in addition to the fact that it is necessary to take all discussions on this in the context of the sample that is to be reviewed throughout the Working Environment Act. But my main argument to reject this matter now is that I believe that night work is not good. Opening up night work in a broad sense would weaken the rights of ordinary workers, and therefore I would like nothing more than strictly necessary work to be allowed at night. The reasons for that are many, but one reason is that I think we have to look at what kind of society we want. If we want a society where as many people as possible will also work at night, it is clear that it will lead to a different society than what we have today. It is quite clear that if more people are going to start working at night than today – that is, there is a trend towards more night work – there are fewer points to be met. Let me do an example. I live with a friend of mine, and he works at night almost every day, because he works in the outdoors. We have had dinner together twice since 1 February because I work all day and he works all night. There is no goal of liberalising from a mental point of view that puts man in the centre. The second reason is the health aspects, which were also brought forward by Sigvald Uppebøen Hansen. It's like people who have a lot of night shift work, on average, have worse health than people who work a day. Given that I am right that night work is ripping people off, that you get sick leave, and that you can get an increased level of disability pension linked to more people having night work, I would assume that the Council of State with its financial ballast will work to internalise externalities in order to achieve a well-functioning labour market. Environmental policy means that the polluter pays, that environmental damage should be borne by the polluter, because that is the way to achieve social benefits. Then is my question to the Council of State: if for a moment we turn people into an input into production, and people are increasingly being used up as inputs because they become destitute, and instead of contributing to value creation, we are helping to increase the cost of the state – that is, more liberalisation of the labour market is causing more people to suffer, as much research indicates that it is right – that this is the case, should it not be so that companies that are struggling their labour force have to pay more in order to do just that? The right has been very offensive when it comes to saying that ordinary workers will get worse sick pay conditions to make them less sick. But isn't it reasonable to also ensure that the companies that work out have to pay for the job they do? That's exactly what you want to achieve. It will then be achieved that the burden that individual enterprises impose on both the individual human and society as a whole, and the state in particular in the form of increased disability pensions, will be burdened on those who actually deserve to be burdened in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1605	The regulatory time is now over. The President proposes that this meeting continue on to case No. 4 is the final debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1609	I must first be sorry that the President has not been informed that the President of the case has left today. The centre party believes that we must look at all the working time regulations together and not deal with this proposal separately. Now it's up to a thorough treatment, and I hope that the whole Storting respects that there is a large majority who will wait, and that at the time when the Labour Law Committee is working, we don't get any more individual suggestions. We've had part of it. It has been especially right that has made many spontaneous proposals in recent years, and it may not be so strange that the Progress Party is now trying to do the same, because the Right has not had so little impact, for example. with regard to the Employment Act and permanent employment provisions. We now see, for example: the health care centre entrance march of the nurses. These are huge changes that are going to have an enormous impact on us. The centre party believes that we still need working time regulations that some people will see as square, but we don't have to make those rules more square than what is absolutely necessary. I don't think there's any less need to protect employees' lives and health today than before. That is why we have a work environment law, and I also believe that we should still have the working time regulations in that law. The Working Environment Act balances the relationships between enterprises with regard to employees, but in that respect the employees are the weak party. It's the ones that need protection. If it wasn't necessary, we wouldn't have needed this law at all. But under the rule of law that some people see as and are described as having very many unfortunate aspects, Norwegian business is not going so badly, and I feel that today there is a lot of work going on at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1624	I'll try to be short. I'm not going to go into the substance discussion that Heikki Holmås drew up, but stick to the matter of proceedings and what is a reasonable time to deal with matters. Let me just clarify in the introduction: I have great sympathy for the proposal and the arguments that Torbjørn Andersen put forward. I think flexibility is very important. At the same time, I think we need to respect both the need to have an overall assessment of the entire law relating to working time and other work environment issues, and the body of the party, which, after all, has been reduced to work on the matter. Therefore, the Government's attitude has been that we should only make the most necessary adjustments to the Working Environment Act while waiting for the selection to be set up. We believe that the proposal we have sent to consult on overtime regulations is a necessary adjustment, among other things. in order not to allow the capacity of the Labour Inspectorate to apply for a derogation instead of for their actual work. Adjustments are also needed when we propose to repeal the Opening Time Act. However, in addition to this, we believe that the provisions should be assessed by the legislative committee. That being said, we are very attentive to the need to keep pace with this work. The legislative committee is to present its position in the second half of 2003, and we are aiming at a very rapid treatment in the ministry and politically after that, so that we can get a law that is adapted to the needs of Norwegian labour today as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1633	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1636	When I listen to the debate, I find some statements simply wonderful. If you see this case in connection with the previous case, it is interesting to see for example. on what the representative of the Central Party uses as an argument in this case. Here it is necessary to wait. In the previous case, however, the centre party was very concerned about making decisions, although there was a lot that was under investigation and in preparation. And then the Center Party allows itself to say that this is a spontaneous proposal from the Advance Party! So here the Progress Party is promoting a proposal because we have been in close contact and strong dialogue with some companies and the employees there, who together want to change, because they see that their own jobs are at risk. Then we are accused that the proposal is a spontaneous proposal! Is it strange that some parties fall into the polls when they do not take into account the needs of the workers they are trying to imagine they are caring for? I have to be allowed to say, if this is going to be the process in Stortinget, I'm going to be considered. Because it now seems as if no matter what matters and suggestions you take up in this house, it is under work, it is assessed, it should be considered, and there are samples working on the matter. Can't we just put in the years together, then, and put down a huge sample that's going to work on all the problems, that's going to solve the problems in the Norwegian community? I actually thought that I was elected to the Norwegian Grand Prix to propose solutions for the Norwegian people, not sit here and be totally irresponsible and leave all social solutions to some selections to sit and think about this year after year! It's about employees' rights, says SV. Yes, but here the employees and businesses want rights that benefit them! I find it quite strange, but the status quo in Norwegian ageing and in the Norwegian political environment is that, apart from the Progress Party, all parties totally ignore people's wishes and needs – and business needs – by giving up total responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11.ana.ud1183e1647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The time for this morning's meeting is too short. [[See page 2255]] The meeting is now being cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
