ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e28	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Inger Lise Aarrestad, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e36	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e41	I allow myself to propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e46	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative Jens Stoltenberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e51	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for measures to achieve greater transparency and awareness of leadership wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e56	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e79	On Thursday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e95	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have secured a majority for a change in law that allows for a strong adjustment of the Party fees. It affects hundreds of thousands of people who today live in a home at the party site. The result of the legislative changes for which the civil parties have secured a majority entails increased housing costs for a large number of people. I am afraid we have only seen the beginning of the examples we have now obtained in the media, because we have to expect that much more party fees will be adjusted as the contracts open for adjustments and old contracts expire. We've seen the consequences. In the smoking sector, an older pensioner couple have been charged NOK 23 000 in increased fees per year. years, and in the current outside Oslo, a housing strike has been demanded 20 million. extra kr, or extra 200000–300000 kr to take over the apartments. This entails a sharp increase in the cost of living. The question is whether the Prime Minister considers this to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e104	The law of 1996 is a law of 1996 which, moreover, came into force from the New Year, on a proposal from the Stoltenberg Government. I am aware that the Labour Party voted against some of the proposals in the law. This law aims to balance the consideration of those who attach to the land and those who are derelict by the land. This applies to parties from before 1983, which is now about to be 20 years old. For many of these fastening contracts, there are provisions that allow a regulation of the charge to be consistent only with general price increases and nothing more than that. Where there are major regulations, they are in cases where they have a land value clause. According to the law, there is access to regulate the charge up to a maximum of 9 000 kroner per person. target if it is the market value of land in that area. In many cases it will be smaller and will not give rise to such an increase. The law shall be evaluated by 2004 at the latest. For its part, the government is open to do so earlier if it becomes unreasonably and unintentionally large. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the issue that has been raised in the media – as far as I remember about the current – about possible demands for the purchase of land on which the dwellings are based – has nothing to do with the law of 1996. The problem had been exactly the same with the old law, so here it's suffocated together some things that have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e115	I can't see that the Prime Minister at all was close to answering my question. What I asked was whether he thought it reasonable that an older pensioner’s pensioner’s partner who has lived a long life in a dwelling on a fixed land would receive NOK 23 000 in increased housing costs in a year. It is a direct result of the law, which bases market values on the basis of which landowners have a significantly greater opportunity to adjust the fastening charges. I repeat the question: does the Prime Minister think that 23 000 kroner in increased fees are reasonable for an older pensioner’s spouse?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e122	In this case, this must be an empty space up to 3 dimensions if the increase is NOK 23000. One, as I said, only has access to the max to increase by up to NOK 9 000 per person. target, so that in case it must be a significant empty. I cannot go into individual cases here and now take a decision on it. We have agreed to look at the effects of the law, if necessary also earlier than in 2004, which have been set as an evaluation date. The regulatory mechanisms laid down in the law are an attempt to balance the interests of those who fasten the land and those who fasten the land, with a maximum price of NOK 9 000 per year. measures with a plot value clause. In all other contracts where one does not have it, one does not have access to such regulations. This case may seem strong and unreasonable, but I cannot handle individual cases over the Spokesman's Chair. I think the previous Prime Minister fully agrees with that. I was absolutely close to answering the question, it was very close.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e133	The President shall not undertake to make a distance assessment in this context. There will be follow-up questions – Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e138	I'm sorry that the government is so passive in relation to this particular challenge. The reference to the evaluation by 2004 does not actually solve any problems for those who have already received both removal notices, have been warned that the rental of land is increasing by more than a thousand percent, and have also been brought into a dilemma by the fact that they now have to go to court with their contracts. I had expected the government to actually now contribute to solving the problems of the many who come up in such cases, and at least did as the evening post writes in today's leadership, irritating something slowly, and perhaps also trying to create some remedial measures. The Prime Minister does not now consider the possibility of slowing down, i.e. at least create transitional arrangements, for which a majority would certainly be possible in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e147	Well, I agree that there's reason to be slow. In the case of the land under public control, inter alia: State forest and the Information Service Fund have been issued guidelines to have transitional arrangements to slow down the process. And very many of those who have attached empty have it known on public owned land through either the State Forest or the Information Society Fund. So the government has taken the consequences of that. In the case of other reasons, private reasons, the Stoltenberg government itself sent out a letter of consultation in August 2001 with some proposals for amendments to the Law on Landfill. I think it is reasonable that we are now processing the hearing replies requested by the Stoltenberg government itself. We're going to do that, and on that basis we're going to see if we also find the need to do something faster than originally foreseen in 2004. But I think this also requires a proper procedure based on the letter of hearing sent out by the Stoltenberg administration itself. It would be unreasonable not to treat it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e157	No Marte Thorkildsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e160	The government that is responsible for this, in essence, is of no interest to the public. What interests us a lot is that there are many people who have now experienced a dramatic increase in a fee, which can actually lead to someone having to move from a farm to a land. I wonder if it really is reasonable to assume that you have to balance the considerations, whether that is really possible, when, for example, it is. is that part of those who have a party contract has actually paid down what the plot is worth, and has invested in infrastructure in the plot, which makes it even more unreasonable when they then get a strong increase in the fixation fee, which can lead to the fact that those who have the least money have to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e167	I agree that if someone is forced to move from the farm and land due to the adjustment of the attachment fee, there is a verdict that none of us would accept. That's why we're willing to look at the results of this law. As I said, in the case of public land, the Government itself has proposed that one should have a transitional arrangement, slowly so that such cases do not occur. If it occurs in cases of private law or on private grounds, it is clear that those who attach land should not accept without delay the fees they may be charged. They have partner organisations that they can use, they have the worst case lawyers they can use, and the government is willing to look at the results if they become completely unreasonable. But on the other hand, we probably have to admit some of us who have been away from this, that part of the fixation fees that were before were completely symbolic, and perhaps for some really unreasonably low. Party fees were down to 200-300 kroner a year, and it was also unfair to those who fasted away. Now you've tried to find a better balance between this. But if there's some imbalance in some direction, the government is willing to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e178	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e181	I have a question for the Prime Minister, because the Bondevik government at the Ministry of Defence has decided to immediately stop the acquisition of some material from Israel and also freeze existing contracts. This means that no material is to be received on contracts already concluded with the Defence, that no material with substantial content of Israeli subcontracting is to be received, that no new contracts are to be concluded, that material-related meetings are not to be carried out, that Israeli personnel are not to participate in service, follow-up, repair, etc. of materials acquired previously from Israel and not to be made available to the public. This, in effect, grumbles under anti-Semitistic attitudes toward Israel, and is a hostile attitude. How can Prime Minister Bondevik be known to act like this – hostile – towards Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e188	Firstly, this government does not act hostilely against Israel. On the contrary, we have been criticised by many that we should be more acute in the criticism of Israel in the current Middle East conflict. Even I have clearly distanced myself from using boycott of possible purchases from Israel as an instrument in the current situation, as some others have advocated. I am pleased that the question has been raised, because it gives me the opportunity to say from the Chair of the Storting that the Norwegian authorities have not introduced boycotts of goods from Israel, even in the defence sector, and do not intend to do so either. As far as the purchase and sale of defence equipment is concerned, there are known some rules. In the case of exports, Norway does not sell arms to countries that are at war, where war threatens, or where there is civil war. Against this background, the purchase of defence equipment from Israel that might have to trigger Norwegian repurchase obligations would not be relevant, as it would be contrary to Norwegian rules on arms exports. In the case of contracts in excess of 75 million. kr, where such repurchase obligations normally enter into. In the case of arms purchases — and in this case from Israel — it is continuously assessed both on the basis of our needs and on the basis of the current situation in the supplier country at all times. There are no general guidelines for the acquisition of defence equipment from warring countries. However, there are specific guidelines on the acquisition of defence equipment from Israel, which were last clarified on 14 January 1998. These mean that any arms purchase from Israel shall be submitted to the Ministry of Defence and approved by the Minister of Defence. The guidelines now referred to by the representative Hagen arose on the basis of the fact that there had been a clearing of such purchases without one having followed the instructions that it should be submitted to political management. Therefore, there was a tightening and a so-called freezing, in order to have a review of what might be the case with possible contracts. But it's not a boycott.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e201	Then I wonder what in the world the Prime Minister's definition of boycott is in terms of defence acquisitions. There are no rules – I am aware that there is no legal basis for rules on acquisitions. There are guidelines and decisions for the export of Norwegian defence equipment, but not the other way around. It's just rules for Israel. There are no rules for any other country in the world. It is in itself an enemy-minded act to pick out exactly the land of Israel. And when you freeze, for example: not to carry out material-related meetings – not to meet, not to talk – when not to accept material from existing contracts, when not to allow Israeli personnel to participate in the service of already purchased material, this is in some cases a boycott of defence equipment that has not ever been carried out in relation to any other country. I want to give the Prime Minister a chance: will the Prime Minister ensure that this directive, which was adopted by the Ministry of Defence because there were some writings in the Newspaper, is immediately repealed, withdrawn, and that the Prime Minister again, with his government, adopts a more friendly attitude towards Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e208	This government has a friendly attitude toward Israel, and we stand for it. But we also reserve the right to criticize friends if necessary. My best friends sometimes give me a corrective. I appreciate such friends much more than friends who agree with everything I say and do. The best friends are the ones who are also brave enough to give correction. Such Israel-friends are we. We reserve the right to speak out if we believe that Israel, for example. Drive excessive retaliation, in the same way that we criticize the Palestinians for not having done enough to stop cruel acts of terror, as we have also been given examples of the very last few days. So Norway's attitude towards the Middle East and Israel is no reason for Carl I. Hagen to see any doubt about it. As far as guidelines are concerned, they exist for exports, and if the purchase of defence equipment from Israel triggers a buy-back requirement, we cannot buy for export purposes. As far as imports are concerned, there is a policy to be reviewed by policy management. Therefore, a freezer has been carried out – for a review. We're going to make sure that the usual routines apply. There shouldn't be any boycott. The Prime Minister will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e215	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e218	From the Prime Minister's last reply to the representative Hagen, I can't see that he answered the question of whether or not to withdraw these regulations, after which, among other things. there is no opportunity to meet Israeli colleagues. This is relatively dramatic, and it goes far beyond what is involved in the repurchase, export and import of defence equipment. It's about relationships and contacts. It is about follow-up of service contracts, service on material from contracts already concluded. This is something that is being noticed, not least in Israel, but also in the United States, and the signals we send can be quite alarming. We are previously aware that Norway has had and has trade boycotts against regimes like Burma, and that we have previously had it against the apartheid regime in South Africa, which was well-founded and natural. And it's not unnatural that you draw parallels to that type of boycott, even though of course we see that this is much more limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e225	As I have prepared in my 17th May speech, and as I have said now two or three times from the pulpit of the Great Government, it is not relevant for the Government to introduce any boycott against Israel, either in terms of defence material. The background to this, as the representatives Hagen and Højlund have referred to, was an episode in which the current 1998 guidelines on the political clearance of the purchase of material from Israel by the Ministry of Defence were not followed. It required a review of the whole situation with regard to what is going on with possible purchases. This is going to the Ministry of Defence's political direction for clearance. Therefore, this so-called freezing writing. The Minister of Defence himself wants to ensure — and the Prime Minister wants to see — that once a person has been subjected to this situation, which was exceptional and required lighting, he comes back to normal. Once it is completed, it becomes normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e233	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e236	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Yesterday, a report on Difference Norway, which uses government statistics, collected public statistics and concluded that differences in Norway are increasing. That's especially because the richest tenth, or 5 pst. by the Norwegian people, really withdraw from the vast majority, primarily because they have large incomes from capital and dividends, which are very lowly taxed. I wonder if the Prime Minister agrees with SV that having little differences between people is a better society. All social research shows that if you manage to keep a society with small differences between people, it will be out of proportion to health, compared to most people's ability to take education and crime. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e247	The Prime Minister agrees that we have too many differences in our society and that it is desirable to balance them. That was the background to the fact that, during the central government, I made sure that we had a big message that provided an analytical basis for how the differences in Norway have developed, and suggested measures to correct it. In the extension of this work, the Co-operation Government has focused in particular on how to help people out of poverty, because the most important thing in the work of cushioning needs to be to help those who are poor, to get out of poverty. To illustrate: It doesn't help the poor if Kjell Inge Smoke has a million more or less in income. The only thing that can help the poor is that they themselves get the money to get out of poverty. That's why I think SV should also be much more concerned with that side of Difference Norway. There I must say that I am disappointed with that report SV submitted yesterday. It's kind of old news, descriptions of statistics, etc. on differences in society, but there are few or few concrete measures to help people out of poverty. The co-operation administration submitted proposals for such measures of 250 million. more than the Stoltenberg government proposed last autumn, and we intend to follow-up to the autumn with new proposals for action and a separate action plan for the fight against poverty in Norway. I think we should become more concrete in this regard, and first of all focus on how to lift up those who have difficulties in our society, and help them to get a better life situation. That's the most important thing, and it seems to this government to follow up. Here we have invited SV to cooperate. That invitation is pending.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e256	The Prime Minister knows very well that if there is one party to this big deal that has promoted an innumerable number of proposals and has constantly challenged the bulk of the population to really do something to combat poverty in one of the world's richest countries, it is SV. I think that liberalism should cost the Council of State and also give other parties recognition when they do a real job. I am surprised that the Government, which has said it should be concerned with combating poverty, is now asking for more time. The government is not able to find the poor so precisely that it is absolutely certain that there is not a single penny too much for someone who wears a lot from before, while at the other end of the scale, among those who are really rich in Norway, there is no fine-tuning. There you distribute tax credits into a cabin and torment without asking where the money is really going. But if you really want to fight poverty, it's important to know the starting point for combating poverty: whether you have a society with big differences at the bottom or a society with smaller differences at the bottom. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Prime Minister agree that if you have a society of greater equality, there is a better starting point for combating poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e265	The President requests that the speaking time be observed. In addition, the President assumes that it was a delay that the Prime Minister was demolished to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e270	It was a delay, which I deeply regret!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e275	I realized that, so I'm not getting close to that. I have already answered yes to Kristin Halvorsen's repeated questions, so it would be unnecessary to repeat them. I have previously given – and I have no problem repeating it from Stortinget’s pulpit – recognition to SV that they have a strong commitment in this area. But it actually has – with respect to reporting – other parties, among others. My own party, and the Co-operation Board, which I now lead. We haven't just sat down to research and figure out which groups this applies first and foremost. We made proposals for 250 million. kr more to immediate measures in addition to the proposed last autumn by the Stoltenberg Government; it also had some proposals. This shows that we haven't just conducted investigations to gain time. Now, when we're going to move on, I think it's also right to hit exactly who this first applies to. We do that with new measures for the autumn. We don't distribute treasures in 'hidden and torment'. The taxes we promoted last year went partly to business and partly to people with lower and middle incomes. We're standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e286	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e289	I must first say that I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is more important to combat poverty from below than to pursue a policy of envy towards the very few who have much but who at the same time contribute in an important way through capital injections into Norwegian business. Then it's more interesting to know what the government de facto is doing to combat poverty. This has been a sustained debate since last year's elections, and the government has been very good at talking about how important it is to combat poverty, without having seen concrete results from it. The government and the Prime Minister are very good at operating comparative manoeuvres in relation to what previous governments have done, and what this government does – without the visible results coming. Therefore, I would challenge the Prime Minister to ask: What has the Government done? And what will the Government do in the near future that will produce visible results?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e296	Firstly, we put concrete measures into the budget we put forward last year, in addition to what the Stoltenberg government proposed. We increased the children's supplement to disability pensioners, which is among those who are poor. We proposed to keep the cash support out of the calculation basis when measuring economic social assistance, because we do not think that those who have cash support should be punished, but unfortunately, as far as I remember, we did not get the bulk of the money with us – strangely enough. We proposed increasing efforts for drug users. We proposed adjustments to the indicative social aid rates. We proposed increased grants for light and heat under the housing support scheme, and we proposed increased minimum tax deductions. These were concrete measures, which Siv Jensen obviously did not or did not remember. We are now working on further measures. Among other things, I can mention: measures in the housing sector, social networking for those who fall through there and labour market measures and rehabilitation of drug users. It's coming to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e303	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e307	The government's problem in the fight against poverty is that you choose to give billions of dollars in lower taxes first and foremost to those who have the most. Thus there will be less money left to bet on those who have the least. It is also the reason that the Government is constantly using for not being able to grant more for important social purposes, that the budgetary balance sheet is so tight. It's tight because you spend money on lower taxes. It is also not right, as the Prime Minister has said several times, that his government used more for those who have the least. A wide range of areas have been cut to finance some of the measures – 60 million. less to long-term sick to get them back to work, more than $10 million less to labour market measures to get long-term unemployed back to work, and cut social housing measures. That's what you did in a budget where you got several billion extra kroner to go with. Nevertheless, it was decided to cut off measures for those who have the least. That's the government's problem, and I'm asking if the Prime Minister admits that all the promises now are not going to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e314	I maintain that the Co-operation Government made a much greater effort than the Stoltenberg government in terms of measures to combat poverty in Norway. I am aware that this is a sore point for Stoltenberg, but that is a fact. It was perhaps a little surprising that a cooperative government took this grip. With regard to a few of the measures now mentioned by Stoltenberg, these are, as he himself said, measures to get people back to work. It's completely in line with the Labour Party line, the so-called line of work – one of the most important things to get people out of poverty is to get them back to work, and I agree with that. I find it difficult to understand what is meant to be criticised by the Workers' Party. So it's said that we give many billions of tax dollars to those who have the most. That's not right either. In terms of personal taxation, we increased the minimum deduction in addition to the Stoltenberg government’s proposal, i.e. tax relief for those who have the least – tax relief at the bottom. I assume that the representative Stoltenberg is thinking about the dividend tax. It was to avoid an unfortunate double taxation, which was quite strange, and it was to get people who have capital, to use it in business instead of placing it in property, cabins, houses, boats or whatever it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e323	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e326	I am pleased that the Prime Minister agreed that he is concerned that the differences have become so large. If you're going to do something about this, you first have to know what to do. What we have presented in our report is overwhelming evidence that the differences over the 1990s have increased dramatically. This means that one seventh of the workforce is outside the ordinary labour market, which means that it has become more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. Self-esteem has increased partly dramatically in health and social services and in childcare rates. Almost all parameters, income and wealth included show that differences in Norway have increased. This government has chosen to focus on a fine-skinned net for the poorest, so not an unworthy needy will get a single penny, while the money floats in different directions. There is a very good example of dividend tax – SEK 1.5 billion has been given to the richest in Norway. What I was very surprised about, and to which I ask for the Prime Minister's comment, is the following: His own social minister says in today's newspaper that this is the result of an envy policy. I would like the Prime Minister to insist that this is the Government's position on these serious problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e333	I heard someone else on the radio this morning, namely, sir. Djupedal, who took part in a debate with Jagland at a bar yesterday. There the representative, Mr. Djupedal, said something very interesting, which I agree with, and which is entirely in line with what the Social Minister himself has said, namely that we need to use more so-called tailors' stitching, not clothing stitches. So we're going to figure out how to reach the right groups of measures. I understand that now SV has switched on, and I think that is good. There is certainly a good basis for working together on the action plan against poverty that the Government will present to the autumn. I also agree with Djupedal that you have to know what to do. That was the background for the Center government to provide the Smoothing message, which gave us a good analytical basis. It is also the basis for us to draw on research environments, public authorities and non-governmental organisations until the autumn in order to arrive at actions that can work, not because we are so afraid that we should spend too much on those who do not necessarily need the money, but to use them to reach those who should be reached. And I understand that SV agrees – as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e340	The president is somewhat concerned that the nightlife at Oslo's bars is being drawn into the main hall, but considering that there is a prime minister from the Christian People's Party who does that, it gets passed. Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e345	It is good that the Prime Minister today mentions the Equalization Notice. It may seem that the Bondevik II administration has forgotten that message. One of five strategies was simply a fairer tax system. The reason why this was maintained so strongly was that one wanted to be able to subtract from the ones that have the most, to raise more to the bottom. When the municipal minister presented the municipal proposition, she pulled her shoulders and said, "The government has no more money! There was a tight setup, and we know who's going through it. It affects those who need special follow-up in school, kindergartens, etc. They're weak groups. Is it the case that the Government has sidelined the strategy of a fairer distribution and that the Prime Minister has agreed with his Minister for Social Affairs, who says that now SV must stop massaging? The centre party has also not intended to stop massaging. We want to continue the fight against extra differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e354	Neither has the government thought, so in that way we're on the same team. I maintain that the most important thing for those who suffer in our society is that they get help. And now I think we should focus on: how do we combat poverty? The government has not, and the Prime Minister has long since forgotten the excellent aberration message that the questioner and the Prime Minister were together about the responsibility for. It is at the bottom when we are now working on our action against poverty in Norway. The cooperative government also wants a fairer tax system. That's why we increased the minimum subtraction, which first of all reaches those who need it the most. That was also why we pushed up the top tax entry point, because it had already begun to hit quite ordinary revenues, contrary to what was intended. We will also continue to work to reduce housing taxes, which are also unreasonable for many common people – to mention another example.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e365	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e368	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. Today, the City Council in Vardø is shutting down all policy activities with immediate effect. Of course, we can start a discussion about everything that has been done for Vardø and all that has been done for Finnmark. I see that in some editorials in the newspapers such a debate has started, but I honestly don't think it is very fruitful. What we are seeing from Vardø now is a signal of abstinence – disengagement in relation to the dismantling of service provision and the disappearance of jobs. What has happened is that you simply give up, and you no longer see yourself able to carry out the tasks and obligations that you have. Nor does it lead to saying that what the elected representatives of Vardø are doing is illegal, so my question to the Prime Minister is: How will the Prime Minister meet the situation that has now arisen in Vardø?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e377	I agree with the representative, Mr Enoksen, that little help to meet people in Vardø is that what happens now if the city council fails to do its job is contrary to the law. That access actually doesn't have one. This problem therefore needs to be addressed in another way. It is true that there has been a reduction in the number of jobs in Vardø over a long period of time and under changing governments, also under the responsibility of the representative, Mr Enoxsen. This has happened both in the case of public jobs and in the case of private jobs. Therefore, this government has also announced that we will seek to channel new state jobs to Vardø. That work is in progress, and this government is taking seriously both by the Minister of State and not least by the Minister of Labour and Administration, who is directly responsible for it. Such suggestions will come. I think that instead of resigning, as I understand it is a cry based on a difficult situation, the municipality should enter into cooperation with the state, both through the county and the department concerned, to find remedial measures on the difficult situation that has arisen. This is the Government for its part open to. Moreover, in the case of the municipal economy in general, it is true that it is tight in many municipalities. The government has put forward a proposal in the municipal economic proposition that is well against previous municipal economic propositions, including from governments in which the central party has participated. That doesn't mean we've solved the problem, far from it. But we're looking for within the responsible financial framework we have to rely on, gradually improving the municipal economy through a growth of 1 1/4 pst. in relation to the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e389	I note that the Prime Minister has a desperate need to compare what this government is doing with what the previous government he led did. I had actually intended to refrain from this in this round. I was also going to refrain from mentioning the local economy, but stick to what is happening in Vardø. This time it's Vardø it's about, but I actually think we can get pretty fast to see that this is also going to spread to other places. I want to take a concrete example of what people experience as completely meaningless in part of the reorganisation that is taking place today. I want to use Aetat as an example of this. This weekend I became aware that in an area of the country that I know very well, several offices have merged into a regional office. The distance between two of these offices is so large that it is not possible for employees to commute from their old job and to their new job. This has led them to keep their old workplace as a workplace, but they are behind locked doors and have to do internal work. They don't accept the users. This means that the users of the service have to commute back and forth five hours, while the employees, with 20 years of competence, are still sitting in the office, but are not allowed to serve the customers. Does the Prime Minister consider this to be a meaningful way of driving modernisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e398	Firstly, I agree with the representative of Enoxsen that there are more municipalities than Vardø in a difficult situation. The government is set to enter into a dialogue and seek to assist within the framework we have at our disposal. Many municipalities have carried out efficiency and rationalisation work over many years, and feel that they have nothing more to do with this. Others may still have additional potential for this. Such possibilities must and must be investigated. In the case of Aetate, they are in a reorganization process that is well known for the Storting and has also been part of the treatment here. Taking a position on how individual offices now organise themselves, distances and relationships with the employees and those to be served by the office, is impossible for the Prime Minister to take over the Spokesman of the Stortinge. I think the representative of Enoch has a sense of that. In the revised national budget, we propose to strengthen Aetat by 15 million. kr to facilitate transition problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e405	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e408	Vardø is not unique in the sense of experiencing demise. I receive a lot of e-mails and telephones from individuals and municipalities that are actually stated about the situation. But at the same time, I also receive enquiries from people who are happy to get started and contribute to shaping a forward-looking and new district policy. The announced district commission from the Prime Minister is very well received by many. But many are impatient to get started, because they see the urgency of finding new approaches to district policy. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Does the Prime Minister agree that it is important to get this work going quickly, and is the Government on track with this important job for District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e415	Let me first give Ryan a well-deserved reward for having taken a constructive approach to how we should proceed in the field of district policy. It is not just a question of moving on in the old tracks and being concerned only with appropriations for old instruments, which have also largely not had the desired effect, but be willing to think new, new instruments. There, Ryan and SV have been deserving of very many others in this debate. Ryan also proposed the creation of a district commission on this very basis. I took a positive view of that, and we intend to follow it up. I agree that one should not wait too long. But as the representative Ryan well knows, there is currently an expert committee, appointed by the previous government, which can now provide us with valuable basic material. We are open to the fact that after the en route report from this sample, coming to the harvest, the time may be at the heart of a broader policy-making commission. We will assess this when this comes, and we would like to consult with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e422	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e425	I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Minister for Transport. I agree with the Government that we get many emails and many messages from District Norway about frustration – frustrations over the Bondevik government's missing district policy. Many will, but will not, because the active substance is not present. And the drop that was asked to float into Vardø was the closure of Vardø Airport. The same thing in Narvik. And then I'd like to ask the Minister for Transport, did she have contact with other departments? Did she get an overview of the closure of state workplaces in Vardø, and to the extent in Narvik, before she made suggestions to shut down airports? She had contact with the municipality of Vardø, with the municipality of Narvik, to see what was possible, and what they could bear, for one could easily imagine in a situation where a moralist over the frustration of people. In the Labour Party we understand very well that they are frustrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e432	The transport sector is very central to rural policy in Norway. It has been, and it will still be. I'm very concerned that we need to find good district solutions in the area of transportation, as well as in aviation. That's why we went to the step of proposing those closures, because we saw in these regions there was a gain to pick up that there was a different traffic base at the nearest airports. That is why, as such, the region will benefit from our gripping them. I would also like to remind you, in the same way as the Prime Minister has done, that it was under the previous government that the transport plan was presented, where it was asked to carry out such a review of the airports in Norway. It was implemented, and we have followed it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e439	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e442	I'm going back to the Prime Minister. This is about Vardø Municipality. The free revenues of Vardø Municipality were 34,876 kroner per employee, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. built-in last year, 50 pst. above the national average. Vardø Municipality's administration costs NOK 5 121 per month. The population, almost twice as much as the national average. The medical coverage per person 1000 inhabitants are 0.99, against the national average 0.77. In all fields, Vardø is in a special class relative to the national average: higher childcare coverage, more elderly with home services, twice as many children following child protection, higher operating costs per year. place in the institutional care of the elderly, etc. And there are three fewer students per year. primary school class in relation to the national average. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is also necessary to look into the municipality's own governance after the cause of any problems? When they are spent in relation to the national average, local politicians may in fact be responsible themselves, and they should not be blamed on the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e451	As I said in a previous answer, there is a need in many municipalities to go through the use of resources. Many municipalities have done so to a large extent, they have streamlined and rationalised, and feel that they have come into the leg and are no longer able to do so. Some municipalities, as I said in a previous answer, probably still have a potential for better resource use. I do not know the details of the Vardö situation in the various areas of which the representative Carl I. Hagen now mentioned examples, but I just think on such a background that it will be more constructive that the State and Vardø Municipality enter into a dialogue, for example. through the county, on how to make even better use of resources, if any. The closure of political functions is not such a constructive approach. The state is open to dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e457	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e460	I guess we'll give them the credit in Vardø that it's not the municipal economy they've complained about. They complain that they lose their jobs, they complain that there are hundreds of jobs that have disappeared, and there is a lot in a small community like Vardø. Similarly, they complain that they are losing the airport, and it is also serious for a place in the districts. I think it's important to take this seriously, along with amputation, and also in relation to the fact that it can spread to other parts of District Norway. I think it's a combination of a number of conditions that create this demise: that state jobs disappear, that the SND instruments are cut, that the fisheries are centralised, and that a feeling of over-control from the state in a number of circumstances. And that abduction is serious, because without local democracy Norway stops. When the Prime Minister here says that we need to rethink district policy – implicitly that we who do not think new, we are old-fashioned and out-of-date – we await the content of the new thoughts that the Prime Minister intends to do, and then we are hoped that no more local governments have left their jobs until that content becomes visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e467	To take what I agree with the representative Arnstad in the first place. I agree and believe the situation in Vardø is serious, and it should be taken seriously. I don't think they're going to end their political duties for fun. They do it enough because they feel that the situation is desperate. But I believe in a different way of getting out of that situation. What the state has the most direct governance is possible government jobs, and we have said that we want to help channel to Vardø Municipality. It must be followed up. Otherwise, I invite Vardø to a dialogue with government authorities on how to get out of a difficult situation in a municipality that has lost 530 jobs in the state and private sectors over the last 15 years. It is clear that it is noticed in a municipality with such a population. With regard to new measures in the field of district policy, I refer you to the Commissioner for Regional Policy. It has just been held, and it contains a number of concrete proposals for a new policy, and we are going to follow up through a district commission. I recommend the Center Party to get a little more on the SV's constructive line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e474	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e477	I try again to give the Prime Minister some relief, and ask a question to the Minister for Transport. The Minister of Transport is now going to carry out the transition to public limited liability companies in many areas of the sector, including: the production department of the State Road Administration. We in the Working Party are against this. We believe that there will be more commerce and less community management, which will ultimately give less and worse ways to money. Now, seven months before the transformation, most of it's unclear both for us and the thousands added to the floor. We don't know if we get more for the money, as the goal was, and we don't know what the conversion costs. The union says she'll cost $7 billion, and the council says $680 million. kr. They don't know how long they want work and what kind of conditions. We've been asking a lot of questions about this over the last few weeks. We get general answers, and it seems like the Council of State would rather not answer. We've got a release of a report, except for the public! Understand the one who can. So I'd like to ask the Council: how much is the conversion – 680 million? $7 billion? And how will she get them to join in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e488	Now there are also some governments that have been through some transformations into AS in the past, and former workers' party governments have good experience with it. From there it is known that conversion to AS does not in itself entail considerable costs. The major challenge in the production activities of the State Road Service is precisely the competitive take-up of the activity. In this context, it is reasonable to assume that there will be a need for more efficiency and reduction — depending on how good this competition is. In this type of conversion, there will always be costs. It is absolutely right that there is currently no overall picture of the costs, because we have not yet reached the stage when this competitive situation has occurred. The Directorate-General for Road Transport has recently drawn up a call for proposals for opening balance sheets for transmission to the Ministry. The Ministry is now reviewing this, and with quality assurance by an external consultant. The costs will depend on the number of persons covered by the downhaul. The extent of this will then be subject to the assessment of the Management Board. The figures recorded by the Road Directorate indicate a total conversion cost of NOK 2.2 billion. This is an amount and an analysis that we must, as I say, have external quality assurance. The Ministry will return to the conversion costs of a total presentation of the opening balance of the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e497	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The answer then is that there is actually no cost in itself, but that the non-costs so far are estimated at NOK 2.2 billion. It is clear that much needs to be done in a sector with 10,000 to 11,000, many of which need to be made redundant. Our concern is that only one achieves this, is a guided winding-up, and that one does not care for the competences that they add to the Road Service. In a press release dated 7 May, the Ministry says that from 2003 savings will cover the cost. I would like to ask: how does this prepared report fit in? Does it show that one wants to make money so fast? Then I want to make the Council of State aware – it is possible she knows – that Swedish experience shows that, where they thought it would cost 1.2 billion kroner to convert the Swedish Road Administration, not to an AS, but to a management company, the result is now NOK 4.5–5 billion. I'm worried that it'll cost more than it tastes in Norway too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e506	Now I really see this as a little attempt at a rematch if we're going to have an AS or not. That's what Stortinget has been up to, so that's where I think it's taken. It is also important to stress that when the representative Starrfeld here refers to the 10,000-11,000 employees, it is about management and production, while the question to me was directed in relation to production. If we focus on production, there are open questions about what the cost will be. But we know that we get a more efficient way of implementing both investment, operations and maintenance tasks, which makes us collectively serve this transformation in the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e516	There will be follow-up questions - Bjørgov Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e519	The most important thing is not to challenge a decision that has already been taken. The most important thing is to understand what is really going on in this reorganization of the State Road Service to an AS, and the cost. My question to the Council of State is: Is it convenient to face costs that could indicate that billions of dollars are involved? Is it convenient to face thousands of employees who get an unsafe everyday life? And is it convenient to say no to the measures for which this money could have been spent on road development, racial protection and public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e526	First of all, I would like to stress that it is not a matter of turning the State Road Service into an AS. It's a matter of turning the manufacturing activity of the State Road Administration into an AS, and it's a very big difference. Then it is that the costs here are related to pension solutions, waiting wages, etc. These are the costs that will lie there in any case and that per person. Today is reasonably hidden, but on which we are now getting numbers. This will be achieved through the opening balance sheet, which will be presented to the Stortinget later. I have no objection to these numbers getting on the table, and we see how much it costs. We have also come a long way in the dialogue with employees on precisely how to ensure that we take priority over other positions in the state, waiting pay, early retirement, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e536	Governments start their first answer by pointing out that other governments also have relocated companies to AS. But the Council of State must admit that what this government is doing is far above what other governments have been thinking about. Here they take the Posten, the NSB, the Aviation and Production Departments of the State Road Service and convert them to AS without having done any basic work in advance and without having added them to the process. It is clear that there must be unrest among those added, and it has also been shown when the organizations to whom they add both demonstrate and break all contact with the ministry. Does the council see the problems this creates when they don't join their organizations feel that they can be involved in such work? Then the Council of State showed the opening balance sheet, which is to answer most of the time. However, that opening balance sheet does not predate the budget for the autumn, and the transformation will take place on 1 January 2003. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e543	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e546	I would like to remind you that two of the companies that we are talking about are special law companies today. The difference between a special-law company and a limited liability company is minimal. This means that these companies were in practice transformed into limited liability companies before that government joined. The employees have been invited to join the process all the way, and of course it is in the course of the process. I have recorded that there is some turmoil in the state road system, and I am of course open to dialogue with regard to the points of uncertainty. It is also the case that the greatest remaining challenge lies in the uncertainty about the opening balance sheet, and we have said that it should be presented when we are to present the budget for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e551	The last main questions in the oral question procedure are asked by Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e554	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. I recently met the people's reaction for the 4-field E6 in Eastfold. The meeting took place in Sarpsborg. On the stage there was one rose for each death per. year – 20 roses in a bouquet. In 10 years, there'll be 200 roses there. And before the national transport plan is fulfilled for Eastfold, there will probably be 400 roses — one for each death — on that stage. In addition, all of them come badly damaged. Can we afford to lose these 400 over the next 20 years? And as I said, in addition, they're going to be badly damaged. But it won't stop there. We have the same problems in Oslo, in Akershus, in Westfold – not to mention the rest of the country, where almost 340 people are killed per year. years. 11 500 people are injured in traffic. What we need now is a national effort, a national boost to get the roads going. Will the Council of State initiate such a national effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e563	I am involved in this national effort every day, and I intend to continue as long as this government sits. It is with great pleasure that I record that the Progress Party is very concerned with road safety on Norwegian roads. We have an absolute common starting point when we see these challenges, whether in the case of E6 through Eastfold, or in the case of other roads around our country, in the case of racial protection in the West and in North Norway, and in the case of the general traffic conditions around it, which means that as long as we are unable to build and repair the roads that should be remedied and built, we must take other road safety measures. We have a lot of work going on in relation to this, and we intend to continue this – it is a national effort, with contributions from the state as well as from road users who travel on Norwegian roads, for example. through tolls. I can quite clearly state that we are going to make important contributions in the future, both in terms of investment, operation and maintenance, and we are going to come up with measures in general on road safety. Of course, I very much hope that the Progress Party will support us in these measures, from speed reduction measures to what else may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e572	It is with all due respect a wonderful national effort to participate in. The fact is that in 1990 approximately $9.5 billion was spent on roads. 20 billion from car and car use. This year, you spend $10.5 billion and take in approx. 40 billion kroner from car use. So you almost didn't have an increase in the heads in the last ten years. There's actually a real decline in use for road construction. The National Skills Transport Minister adds, is producing more photoboxes, more bumps on the roads, dot loads, radar checks, while what really helps, as we look at E6 to Gardermoen, where death has fallen dramatically, is building new roads, and there the Government is doing absolutely nothing. That's where I'm calling for a national effort. Will the Council of State take the initiative in a national effort to build safe roads in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e577	I'm a little unsure whether we live in the same country – if that's how we don't do anything on the road! There may be a lot of good steps we have taken on the road side, both in terms of building new roads, bridges and tunnels – I don't think there is any doubt about that. Then it is that in the case of fiscal charges in this country, they are not earmarked. Whether we want it or not, it is not such that it is an automatic matter that car-dependent charges go for transportation purposes. Therefore, it is important that we pick out the best and most important projects first and get them implemented. We intend to continue this effort, and we will regularly present the National Transport Plan, which will allow the Storting to deal with both long-term plans and annual budgets in relation to priorities each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e584	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e589	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen to the Minister of Finance, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Culture and the Church, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, this question is moved and answered before question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Signe Eye to the Minister for Agriculture, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative Eirin Fallet. Questions 12 and 14 from the representatives of Ågot Valle and Arne Lyngstad respectively to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. Question 15, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 17, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Labour and Administration, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs has left. Question 20, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 21, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Question 22, from the representative Odd Roger Enoksen to the Minister of Defence, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e620	So the first question that will be addressed is question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e626	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following question: ‘Since the Grand Duchy adopted the establishment of the Eastern Region in 1999, a number of environmental conditions for the Decision have been radically changed. These changes must be submitted to the Size. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the Grand Duchy is properly informed, for example through a presentation, of the changed conditions for the establishment of the Eastern Region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e635	I do not agree with Odd Roger Enoksen's claim that the environmental conditions for Storting's decision to establish the Eastern Region have changed radically. It was also presented by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, who, on my behalf, replied to Knut Storberget in the Questionnaire on Wednesday 17 April 2002. Recommendations in St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99 on the establishment of the Eastern Region was based on the needs of the defence sector, but also provided the basis for a comprehensive study on the impact on nature, the environment and society, as far as it was clear at the time. Following the completion of the impact study in 1998, independent trade union consultants have carried out follow-up investigations. The results show that the impact on nature, the environment and society is largely the same or slightly better than that presented to the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 11th@item: In the case of field noise, it is recognised that the activity will cause noise to the environment. By changing the position of stations, shooting directions and target areas, as well as the adjustment of charge sizes, noise pollution is being reduced in relation to the size of the vehicle. In the case of contamination into water, the defence aims at switching to lead-free ammunition for small arms. For Østerdal garrison and Regionfelt Eastland, this process will be accelerated. Therefore, the deposition of lead in the field will be significantly reduced compared to that resulting from the Storting treatment. With regard to the use of Rena River for military activity, it is assumed that this may be done with due regard to the existing civil use of river. An extensive process is still under way, with a strong emphasis on nature, environment and society considerations in the planning and implementation of the Eastern Region. Since the 1999 decision, the size has been provided with relevant information on the project in relation to the annual budget proposals as well as in St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002, the implementation proposal, currently under discussion in the Defence Committee. It is my opinion that the implementation of the project takes place according to the leadership provided by the Stortinget and that the necessary information on the planning and implementation has been provided to the Stortinget in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e661	I must say that I am somewhat surprised at the answer the Minister of Defence has now given. I still believe that the environmental assumptions have radically changed in relation to what was the starting point of the project. First, there is considerable interference in the Rena River, which has previously been shielded from military intervention. Even more serious, I think it is that the toxic emissions to water are likely to be between three and fourfold in relation to what was foreseen for the establishment of the Eastern Region. This applies, inter alia, to: for several types of metals. It was intended, for example: a lead emission of 10 tonnes, while it appears to be as high as 19 tonnes. It is true that the defence is considering switching to another type of ammunition, but it will nevertheless not prevent large emissions of copper, zinc and e.g.. white phosphorus. In addition, it is also known that much more will be affected by noise problems than initially assumed. It is a prerequisite for a functioning democracy that state intervention is treated in a thorough manner and that real consideration is taken into account in the process. It cannot be accepted that the defence changes the use of the field across the assumptions laid down in 1999 without the parties involved being adequately consulted and the Stortinge has also had a word in it. On the basis of the Minister of Defence's first answer, my question of follow-up is: does the Minister of Defence not see that the consideration of both intervention in the river, the consideration of toxic discharges and the consideration of noise has changed in relation to the original decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e670	As for the concrete examples that have been shown here, I have a different view of some of the claims that Odd Roger Enoxsen is based on, and that include. is in an investigation by the nature protection organisations. In the case of contamination with water, lead is the largest source of contamination. The defence's view is that the deposition of lead in the field will be significantly reduced by e.g.: transition to lead-free ammunition. You can also handle emissions to water in other ways. Among other things, shooting can be carried out on railway installations and against targets in fields with bulwarks and other measures to prevent run-off and which also facilitate the collection of projectiles. In the case of noise, we still believe that the 305 dwellings that are assumed to be affected are at stake, and there are figures that were also presented to the Stortinget in a Questionnaire round earlier this year. So in the case of the Rena River, we believe that here it is fully possible to reconcile the defence activity with the civil use of the river. Then we are on the question of democracy, and the situation is that democracy has decided that the Eastern Region should be built. There has been considerable resistance, but resistance has not gained. When the Ministry's position is that, in terms of environmental conditions, the situation is similar or somewhat better compared to some emissions, it is right to allow the project to proceed. But I also think democracy should have its ability to ask questions. We know that we have a proposition on the defence committee, St.prp. No 55, which also has a reference to the Eastern Region, so that we will, of course, answer questions from the Committee that address current issues in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e681	A number of questions have also been sent that address issues related to the Eastern Region, where the environmental aspect is not yet addressed. It is absolutely right that it is a democratic decision that underpins the construction of the Eastern Region. The democratic decision is based on given assumptions, and we have a somewhat different view of the extent of the deviation from the given assumptions. My closing question to the Council of State will be short and good: will the Council of State guarantee that the defence will stay within those limits, including: with regard to the environment, which was set by the Stortinget in 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e688	I want to stick to what I said in my main response, namely that in terms of overall environmental conditions, they are largely unchanged or even improved. There are many different elements of these environmental assumptions. We've been involved in the lead pollution of water, we've been involved in the consequences for the Rena River, we've been involved in noise pollution, but overall, we believe that this is within the scope of what the Stortinge left behind. There is also ongoing work in the project organisation to minimise all the emissions that we have talked about here. I am confident that this will be done in a satisfactory way, in addition to the fact that, of course, in the seventh place, the State pollution control body is responsible for setting emission requirements for the defence and, of course, we have to stick to when we are going to implement the use of the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e695	Then we go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e701	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘It is now moving rapidly towards the enlargement of the European Union. This presents Norway with major challenges. What is the Government’s strategy to strengthen Norway’s position in our neighbourhoods, in particular with a view to managing and controlling our large marine resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e710	Swensen is quite right that it is now likely to move towards an enlargement of the EU. I would assume that a significant expansion will come in 2004, which is probably a few years away. When the EU is enlarged, the new Member States will become participants in the common fisheries policy of the EU, which is not part of EEA cooperation. Enlargement will not affect Norway’s management and control of marine resources, and therefore it means that we are in about the same position as now. However, with regard to Norway’s management and control of marine resources, the Government continues to place a decisive emphasis on close cooperation with the countries with which we share these resources. Norway therefore has a bilateral fisheries agreement with the EU. The annual negotiations on reciprocal and balanced quota cooperation under this Agreement will also be continued with an enlarged EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e719	From the point of view of the Coastal Party, Norway must now invest in cooperation with the western Nordic countries in order to ensure control of the natural resources of the Norwegian Sea. We had to deal with a Document No. 8 proposals from me on this yesterday. The latest poll on Icelandic membership in the EU shows that the Icelandic people will say a clear no if there is talk of giving up the right to dispose of fish resources. It implies that Iceland will be more interested in cooperation which does not imply a declaration of the right of access. Such cooperation is believed to allow Norway to offer Iceland. Norway has to invest heavily in more markets than the EU for fish products. Only by standing on several legs can we reduce our dependence on the EU market, with which we have seen that we have had major problems in recent times. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see the enormous opportunities that lie in these western sea areas, such as oil, gas and fisheries? I would say that such cooperation westwards will give us the status of great power in the management of resources in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e728	What Swensen's question is now traveling, is quite different from what he raised in the question-time question. There was the theory that due to EU enlargement, we will obviously face new challenges in the management of marine resources. My point in the answer was that this is not part of the EEA Agreement. Although the new countries also become part of the EEA, we are not in a fundamentally new position in this area. I'm not quite sure what Swensen is now looking for. I understand that he is looking for cooperation with the Western Nordic countries, but at my discretion Norway now has a satisfactory management of the resources. It is quite right, as Mr Swensen says, that having close cooperation with all the surrounding countries is of the utmost importance, and not least within the EEA, we have very close cooperation, among other things. with Iceland. But the fact that we have a disposal problem with Norwegian products is also a clear challenge. But that's not part of the question of resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e735	It is possible that I went a little sideways, but my main point is to say that this also has a strong impact on the market relationship with the EU. That is why the Coastal Party is of the opinion that we should build a stronger alliance outside the EU in order to have greater strength towards other markets and also the EU, which depends on our products, such as oil and fish. I believe that Norway must take on board the consequence that our country has completely opposite needs than the European Union in economic policy, among other things. because we are a large oil producing country and the EU is a major importer of oil. In Norway, we have to cool down the economy during periods when the EU has to stimulate its economy. Therefore, in our view, it is crucial for Norway to be able to pursue an autonomous financial and interest rate policy. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that Norway has a good deal of conflicting interests with the EU, that we have great opportunities outside the EU, and that we need to cooperate with and strengthen the relationship with natural geographical neighbours when we have chosen to stand outside the EU in a referendum? Because it is a fact that we have chosen to stand outside the EU. Then we need a strategy to improve access to markets to strengthen our position in the north in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e744	We're now in a third question. I'm going to leave the question of oil and stick to fish, which was Swensen's original starting point. I would like to say briefly that of course our immediate neighbouring country is there first and foremost as a neighbouring country. It is the big markets out there that I expect Swensen to be first and foremost looking for. But he is probably not aware that we have a clear strategy here, namely that in the WTO negotiations we want as free a approach for Norwegian fishing exports as possible. Therefore, the clear strategy that should be followed for the future revenue of Coast Norway is precisely to make WTO negotiations as successful as possible. I can therefore answer Swensen's questions very positively, and I feel absolutely sure that Swensen will be with us in a work for as liberal a world trade for fish as possible. Therefore, all good forces should support the future WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e761	This question has been raised. Question 3 will be addressed later in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e777	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e783	«The women's health in Norway was seen on the agenda in connection with the Women's Health Committee's presentation No. 1999:13. How will the Government follow up the settings of the current selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e790	A goal for Norwegian health services and our welfare systems is that they should be optimal for all citizens – both women and men. NOU 1999:13, Women’s health in Norway, showed with all possible clarity that there are some major knowledge gaps in women’s health and disease. It also concluded that there is a lack of gender mainstreaming in health policy and healthcare. In addition, I would like to point out that the investigation initially points out that women’s health in Norway has a positive sign that women live here longer than most other women in the world, and that many women in Norway have good conditions for good health. In order to address some of the deficiencies identified in the investigation, a separate specialist board for women’s health was established in the State Health Authority. Health surveillance will also ensure knowledge of the gender perspective in health and inequality by integrating this perspective into the etatate’s databases. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been tasked with ensuring that the gender perspective is integrated into the activities of the Directorate, inter alia. the preparation and follow-up of different types of plans, advice measures and work on the knowledge base. The Directorate shall have a special responsibility to ensure that women are not discriminated against through the organisation and practice of healthcare. The National Medical Research Ethics Committee (NEM) has developed guidelines for the inclusion of women in medical research with a clause that both sexes must be included in all medical research. Norway’s Research Council is required to ensure gender perspective in relevant programming plans, including: in the case of application assessments in the case of research aid. An information leaflet on ‘Sex perspective in the social and health sectors’ has also been developed, which has been disseminated in a large number to social and health professionals. The folder shall make personnel aware of the gender perspective of decisions — i.e. both the consequences of decisions taken and the basis for knowledge of the decisions. A major communication on public health is now being prepared for presentation to the Stortinge during 2002. A more comprehensive presentation of the follow-up to the Women’s Health Committee’s proposals in areas such as health monitoring, root cause research in relation to women’s health problems and targeted prevention measures will be included in this Communication. The Communication will generally focus on targeting measures based on differences between groups of the population. With such a device, it would be natural to place high emphasis on strategies and measures based on the situation and needs of women.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e803	I thank you for your answer. I find a positive willingness to continue with the conclusions of this setting that were delivered two to three years ago. I asked the same question to Health Minister Højbräten two years ago, and then had a bad feeling on behalf of the men for the way we have approached the women's image of illness. It struck me when I got a little involved in the research – and the treatment – that applies to women, that in general, through history, there is interest and attention to be directed towards the human body, and that it has in practice resulted in a serious wrong against women, for example. because we have different anatomy and biology. Women talk differently about disease, they have less power and influence in society, they have diseases other than men, and many of the diseases are different for women and men. Women give birth to children and still have the main care for them, and women usually express that the health care system does not take them seriously. Women also have, because there are most of the old ones in Norway, several chronic diseases. That is why I feel that little has happened in the follow-up. I am aware that the Council of State Høybråten has not been responsible for following this for so much of the two years, as he has been absent most of the time and the ministry has had much of the attention directed to the state's taking over of health duties. I would like to ask if the Council of State is now ready to go on with renewed energy to ensure that the women's perspective in the future is taken more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e814	The short answer to that question is yes. If I were to take the opportunity to elaborate on it a little bit, I would say that my plan is that in the message I have now notified to the Stortinget during this year, we will present a strategy for following up women's health issues overall. As my first response showed, there has been a good deal, but on several points it remains to be considered to take concrete action, not least in terms of the most marked differences. I think the initiatives taken in relation to the research environments may be some of the most important. Putting a gender perspective on health involves finding explanations about women’s health and disease status, how women’s diseases are expressed, and how women’s health and disease are understood and met. A gender perspective will also increase understanding of trends that are positive for women’s health, which can bring important benefits in prevention work, including in relation to men at the next round. I believe that this focus will eventually produce results, and I want to bet that there will be an offensive strategy presented in the message presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e825	I thank you again for an offensive answer. I have full confidence that the Minister of Health will do just that. In the conclusions drawn by this NOU, it was noted that a special subject area for women’s health and disease should be created at the medical faculties. It was also noted that there should be a requirement for Norwegian research to include women in clinical studies. Furthermore, it was concluded that women’s health perspectives must be maintained in medical, health and social education, and it was proposed to grant 50 million. kr to the Norwegian Research Council for a five-year period for such purposes. So I finally want to ask the Council of State if he's willing to go into some special measures to have a lot of knives to show all the attention and research efforts to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e834	We will definitely consider specific measures in addition to those implemented by the Research Committee and the Norwegian Research Council, which are required to include gender perspective in all medical research. The Research Council shall also ensure gender mainstreaming in programme plans, including: for the evaluation of applications for research aid. In addition, I can mention that a three-year development project related to the Centre for Societal Research at the University of Bergen has been launched, with the aim of developing gender-sensitive knowledge, method, action strategies and teaching materials, among others. for the rehabilitation field, in cooperation with users and employees. There is one example among others of the fact that these guidelines are now being delineated, but we will definitely consider concrete actions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e844	My question is also mainly about women's health, and it goes to the Minister of Health: «In general surgery, most areas are subspecialised. One of the exceptions is mother surgery. One can therefore be anxious that surgery can be seen as left - handed surgery within the surgery. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to ensure the quality of mother surgery by organising it in the same way as the other surgical subspecialities, and in that case will the Council of State take an initiative to do something about it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e853	As a fundamental principle, we in Norway have wanted to keep the number of main medical specialities and so-called border specialities at a reasonable level in order to avoid excessive fragmentation of medical knowledge and practice. It is also important in relation to the development of costs in medicine and in view of having a relatively decentralised health care system with a high level of competence. Most of the countries we can compare with have more specialities than Norway. No country in the Nordic region or the EU has its own speciality or border speciality in breast surgery. In both our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, the specialist training of doctors is currently under review, but so far no proposal has been made for main speciality or border speciality in breast surgery. With us, the National Council for the Training of Doctors and the Distribution of Doctors is in the process of assessing the specialist structure in the field of internal medicine and surgery. The Secretariat of this Council is located in the Directorate for Social and Health. The Council has issued a first consultation note on intrinsic medicine, one of which is to strengthen general internal medicine for the sake of the vast majority of elderly patients with complex disorders. The National Council will examine an initial draft on the surgical discipline at its meeting in September this year. For my part, I would like to await the professional recommendations of the National Council. Breast surgery is currently handled by general surgeons or border specialist surgeons in gastrointestinal surgery or urology, both of whom are border specialists in the soft-surgery area. The necessary reconstruction after chest operations is normally carried out by plastic surgeons. In plastic surgery, unfortunately, we have a problem with that 20 pst. by the positions of superiority are unoccupied, not least as a result of the transfer of many specialists to cosmetic surgery in the entirely private market. It's going to be working on this challenge. Some major hospitals have established separate units for mammary surgery and so-called endocrinological surgery, i.e. surgery on the internal secretion organs. This can prove to be a successful solution, and the National Council is also likely to consider this issue. For me, as Minister of Health, it is important to underline two aspects. There may be a very good professional development in an acute area of competence in medicine even if a specific formal speciality or a border speciality is not established. Secondly, no surgeons or surgical departments shall perform operations where, according to medical developments, they are considered to have insufficient competence. Law on health professionals clearly establishes this relationship in order to ensure the patient’s good and sound treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e875	I thank you for your answer. This is a very important matter for many women. There is a high incidence of breast cancer. Each year, between 2000 and 3000 women are operated on for breast cancer. It's mostly women this is about. I think it's pretty sad if that's how the removal of the breasts is going to be left hand work. There are three areas of general surgery that are not sub-specialised, for thyroid-bistillary-bistillary and mammary surgery. I hope I do not get it right that this can be about status. I do not refer to the Minister of Health in this respect, because there are other forces that also work in this area. This is not a matter of beauty, but of getting a good quality of life and a functional life even if you have a breast removed. Then it is very important that the work done by the surgeon is of absolute highest quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e882	Let me state that I fully agree with Mr Olsen's representative that in this area, as in other important areas, it is the soundness and high quality that should guide. I can also assure you that the assessments I have expressed are not at all an indication of a downgrading of the status of this subject. I think the cancer plan that I had the pleasure of presenting to the Stortinget in 1998, and the effort that has taken place in that area, not least in relation to women and breast cancer, is an expression of the sting opposite from my side. Neither is it the case that surgery in this area is or should be left-handed even if it is not a separate border speciality. There would be a lot of left-handed work in the Norwegian healthcare service, if that were the case. What is important is that we have good professional assessments at the bottom of the development and specialisation of medicine. Specialisation is not an end in itself; in many areas specialisation is a problem in order to get good quality out to all parts of healthcare. That is why I think it is important for the Ministry of Health and for the Stortinget to build on the professional consensus that is being developed, and on the professional advice that we have here announced that the National Council for Specialist Training of Doctors will be included when they come out in the autumn with their draft consultation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e889	It's going to be exciting to see the review we're going to have. And as I said, I don't think about the council when I'm talking about status in this area. But I still want to say that there's so much volume on that type of surgery, and it's so important that you don't have to enter and operate again and again and thus get poor functioning. That's why I think it's important that this becomes a subspeciality. After what I've learned, the surgeons' association is concerned that there is going to be subspecialized surgery. What's good about this is that it doesn't cost any particular money, because it's just about organizing the healthcare system, because it's about elective treatment. So there's no big cost associated with this out in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e896	I note that there is a great deal of agreement between the questioner and me on the importance of having good quality of these important health care functions. Then, for my part, I have to wait for the professional advice that it is announced that I will get, before I go on to take my position on the question that has been raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e904	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘There is an EU Directive amending the advertising rules to allow pharmaceutical companies to advertise prescription medicines for asthma, AIDS and diabetes for a trial period of 5 years. This Directive is EEA-relevant. There is a risk that the Directive could lead to increased medical consumption. Furthermore, the risk of people getting the medicine they're advertised for is increasing, not the one that's best for the individual. Will the Council of State contribute to preventing the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e913	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the directive, which the representative Haga raises on his question, is not a separate directive, but one of several elements of the proposal for a new general EU directive on medicinal products for human use. Furthermore, the new proposal for a Directive on medicinal products for human use is part of a revision of EU pharmacological legislation. The proposal has been sent from the Commission and is being examined by the political bodies of the European Union. The Norwegian authorities are strongly concerned with the design of EU legislation on medicinal products and the implications of this could be expected to have for the Norwegian legislation in this area. The concerns of the Norwegian authorities relate in particular to the risk of over-use of medicinal products and the desire to optimise the rational use of medicinal products. Furthermore, it has been stated that if this Directive is to be adopted in the form in which it is now adopted, it is necessary to establish clear guidelines and control of such advertising. In formal and informal forums where this Directive has been discussed, the Norwegian authorities have expressed their clear concerns about this part of the proposal. The concerns of the Norwegian authorities are shared by our EFTA/EEA partners. The Commission is made aware of this by letter of 15 March 2002. The European Parliament, where the matter is now under consideration, has also been made aware of the views of the EFTA countries on the issue of advertising. We have therefore used the channels we have through the EFTA cooperation to express our views. I will ensure that these views will continue to be followed up in an appropriate manner during the EU's further examination of the Directive, including at political level. Finally, I mention that I am aware that this point in the proposal for a directive is also subject to discussion within the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e926	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that the Government expresses considerable scepticism through what has now been said, that we should get advertising on these medicines. I just have to say that I think it's very worrying that we should end up in a situation where we get this kind of advertising, because people need to know about the drugs and not need to be exposed to speculative advertising. It will be a fact that the positive aspects of a drug will be overplayed in an advertising context, and the negatives will be underplayed. But then I would like to ask the Council of State how he views the possibilities of winning with the Norwegian views, and when he also points out that the matter is to be dealt with at political level, what it really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e933	I have expressed my views on the issue of advertising, and I broadly agree with the representative Åslaug Haga now said in that way. With regard to the possibilities of reaching the Norwegian viewpoints, it is difficult for me to give a final assessment of it. However, the fact that the EFTA countries and our EEA partners are united here, and the fact that there is also a debate within the EU on the same issue, at least gives cause for optimism as compared to the fact that it may be possible to influence the outcome of the process in the EU. The follow-up from our side will then take place in the ordinary channels. I would also like to address this in the contacts I have in Brussels on this and other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e942	I am pleased that the Minister of Health confirms that he will discuss this issue in his contacts with the EU. It is essential that these matters are also dealt with at political level. There is a danger that one will not achieve what is Norwegian, and my question to the Minister of Health will then be how he views a situation where, under the EEA Agreement, Norway will be required to open up advertising, and whether the Minister of Health considers this issue to be so serious and important that he will assess whether Norway should put its foot down in such a situation and say: No thanks, we do not want this in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e949	The question that the representative Haga is now asking is a hypothetical question, to which I do not think it is right to answer, and at least not at this point when we are in a process in which we are seeking to influence the EU with the good arguments we have for the position we have from the Norwegian side. I have the belief in these arguments that they will actually be able to join in and move the case. I don't think it's appropriate to wonder what might be the situation if we don't get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e957	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «In the Official Journal of the Bergen of 16 May 1990. it is claimed that hospitals in the West are being fed with food for food for food for food for food for human consumption compared to hospitals in other parts of the country. Western hospitals get 970 million. less than if the money was distributed in relation to the population, as in the other regions. This leads to poor hospital provision for patients in our region. Can the Council of State confirm these numbers and will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure a fairer distribution of funds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e966	The starting point for the distribution of appropriations in 2002 was the continuation of the actual consumption of counties in the specialist health service, without making major economic redistribution in the first year of the reform. This applies to all regions in 2002. In examining the 2002 State Budget, the Stortinget concluded this principle for the allocation of appropriations between health regions as outlined in the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg Government and in the supplementary number of the Bondevik Government. Population shares are not a sufficient parameter to compare the expenditure needs between regions. In previous transfers to county municipalities, the calculations also included other sizes such as age composition, distance criteria, mortality, etc. to capture geographical differences in expenditure needs. Health West RHF has a relatively lower spending requirement measured by these criteria than when looking at the population share alone. In addition, in previous transfers, there was also a specific grant to the three northernmost counties, which also contributes to the fact that the distribution of funds does not correspond to population shares. However, I have now carried out a full review of the entire funding system. The Government has set up a separate body to look at the total funding of regional health enterprises. This sample, led by Professor Terje P. Hagen, will present its position at the end of this year with a view to making decisions and monitoring the work of the sample possible, including the allocation of funds to regional health enterprises from 2004. I also aim to assess compensatory measures in relation to any adverse distributional effects of transfers in the work on the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e977	I'd like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think is opening up, that there may be some changes in relation to the distribution that is. When it comes to this selection to look at future funding, I am aware that it is included in the mandate. reads: ‘support the objective of an equivalent offer of health geographically and between patients and groups of patients’. And when you look at the answers in Bergen's Official Journal over the last few weeks about how the situation is in Haukeland, as I know best, since I'm from Hordaland – the head of psychiatry is protesting, cancer is moving home, one has been waiting for years for equipment for stroke patients – you can't say that the spending needs are met when it comes to the Western hospital region. It is clear that similar relationships may well point to many others too, but there is no doubt that Haukeland is an effective hospital, it operates well, but needs more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e982	I can confirm that the sample that has been reduced will review the financial assumptions for the objective of an equivalent health provision. The fact that, as a consequence of the work of the sample, there may be changes in the distribution of regions between regions is an absolute possibility. At the same time, both the representative of Frøiland and I have been in politics for so long that we both know that these distribution issues between counties and regions in our long-term country are demanding, and that the operations to be done will be redistribution operations, some will lose and some will win. In this way, I think it's important to be clear that there are demanding processes. But we're going into them. We believe that this is phase 2 of the health reform, the hospital reform, which we have now put on the rails.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e987	I share the opinion of the Council of State that it is difficult to redeploy. But a million people who live in this region in the west, are entitled to an equal supply as well as the rest of Norway. The job that the Hagen selection is going to do is going to be important and demanding for both the council and the council, but at least I'm glad that work has started. And then I have a hope for the last sentence in the Council of State's answer, that one will evaluate compensation in relation to next year's budget. This selection does not present its setting until the end of this year, so it is two years until it has any effect, but one will also look at the next year's budget. It's very important and absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e992	I can confirm what I said in my first response that we will also consider any compensatory measures in relation to major imbalances, in connection with the work on the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1001	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Studies commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health show that cooperation between hospitals and the care and care services in municipalities is partly deficient and problematic in relation to patient treatment when outsourcing/repatriation and follow-up. It is unacceptable that the patient is made a throwaway between the different levels of health care. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1010	As pointed out in the question, cooperation between specialist health services and care services is not always optimal. Sometimes it has undesirable consequences for patients. I agree with the representative, Mr Grötvold, that this is not acceptable. It is an objective that the patient should as far as possible experience the provision of treatment as a whole, and not as a fragmented system because responsibility is based on different institutions and at different levels. The law takes this relationship up several places. In particular, I would like to point out the requirement of individual level in the Special Health Service Act and the obligation to provide guidance to municipal health services in the same law. The Health Business Act provides that undertakings also cooperate with other actors where this is necessary in order to promote the objectives of the undertaking, such as: are described in the purpose paragraph of the Specialist Health Services Act. I've been including the relationship in the management documents for this year. Depreciation of pre-treated patients has been particularly highlighted here. It is assumed that each health enterprise establishes good cooperation and interaction practices with the community health service. Through such good cooperation relations, a secure rapid outsourcing and good follow-up of the patient after hospitalisation can be achieved. The municipal payment requirement for pre-treated patients provides that the municipality is to cover costs for patients who have been completed but are in hospital pending a municipal offer, subject to specified conditions. The background to the law and the regulation was that experience had shown that the problems of pre-treated patients were greatest in those cases where there were no cooperation procedures for the transfer of pre-treated patients from hospitals to the municipality. Experience has shown that the regulation has not worked as provided for in some cases. In this context, I can inform you that the Ministry of Social Affairs is working on proposals for revision of the regulation, inter alia. assessing the reduction of the time before the payment obligation occurs and the adjustment of the payment rate. However, it must be recognised that there is a lack of capacity for municipal institutional sites, especially for the elderly. There is a strong pressure on the municipal service, while Corridor Asians are experienced in the specialist health service. These are concrete and practical problems that require practical action by undertakings. It is this study from FAFO and the Foundation for Social and Business Research shows. The study is now being followed up with further work at FAFO, where during the autumn an example collection of good cooperation relations will be completed between the different levels of the treatment chain. This is ordered by the Social and Health Directorate, and the Ministry of Social Affairs will follow this up. Furthermore, I want to show you that you are working on developing the hospice sites and hospitals. The cancer plan also contains moments within this area. It will be able to remedy the situation of cancer patients who feel that the inter-level cooperation relationship is not satisfactory. I would also like to point out that the report shows that good forms of cooperation between levels are not necessarily a product of good economy. Good formal and informal cooperation channels also have a strong and positive effect on the patient’s perception of the flow and coherence of treatment provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1025	I thank the Minister for the answer and I agree that good forms of cooperation are important. But I also think there are other grips that need to be taken here. The study conducted by FAFO and SNF shows that there is the greatest problem with elderly patients, cancer patients, psychiatric patients, dying and drug users. Some of these groups were also attended by the Minister of Health. I think it is important that, among other things: the group of older people is given a different status in the Norwegian health system. Professor of Medicine at the University Hospital in Akershus, Jan Eriksen, points out that some older people do not receive adequate treatment in any way and are sent home without having fulfilled their requirements. Thus, the weight of care and the weight of treatment are still very high in the first line service. I would like to ask the Minister of Health: Is it not true that we are now looking at, among other things. the funding mechanism for part of these patients with complex disorders, and that we also look at what we need to equip up in the first-line service and care services to ensure that these patients are well cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1034	I agree with the initiative of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities that all people, regardless of age and social status, are entitled to an equivalent offer and a proper offer in healthcare. That's our goal. At the same time, there will always be a tension between the specialist health service and the first line service in terms of what is a pre-treated patient ready to be printed. I don't think any action can completely eliminate that tension. However, I believe – and this report also shows – that where good practices and relationships are established, there are far greater opportunities to create a context and a whole in the treatment chain that patients experience as good and positive. As far as the financial instruments are concerned, I would like to point out that they are now under investigation in the case of hospitals, and in particular where they are being investigated. look at how they should be developed further. And in the case of the first line service, I refer to the treatment of the seniority plan and the follow-up and its termination.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1043	I would like to point out that the study that we have both shown shows that this problem has increased in the last five years. There are also conclusions to suggest that the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness stress in hospitals have increased this problem because the patient needs to be printed more and more quickly, and because those with complicated disorders do not receive treatment beyond what they are admitted to, perhaps after a rapid and immediate diagnosis. I therefore believe that this is a resource issue that we need to look at in a broader context. Hospital funding with the ISF model and the DRG system needs to be considered in relation to the complex disorders, so that they are better covered and properly treated. The community economy, with first-line healthcare services, needs to be upgraded, as is the care sector, which is actually the social minister's table. Interaction is important. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Health: Should it not, together with increased resource availability and improved distribution keys, be taken as a thank-you for better cooperation between these different levels, by looking at the entire healthcare system from the first line up to the specialist service in a wider context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1052	I think it is unusually important that, through both legal economic and organisational instruments, we achieve a better whole in treatment provision, and especially in relation to the group of people with complex disorders, who need longer periods of time: the chroniclers, often older people and people with complex disorders. Here we are not good enough, but I believe that actions such as individual plans, actions aimed at developing the inter-level cooperation procedures, and adaptations to the funding system can help solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1057	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1064	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister of Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1067	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Church and Culture the following questions that will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘When a pastor and a parish priest are married while living in each of their parishes, an unusual situation arises. This is now the case in the municipality of Eidskog in Hedmark. Does not the Council of State, on a general basis, consider that the existing legislation is somewhat square and that there should therefore be room for more flexibility, and perhaps all the more so that the obligation to live should be based on voluntary activity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1076	There is a practice of exempting residence when the obligation would prevent a spouse from living in the same dwelling. The scripture says, "What God has joined together, men shall not separate." For what the representative describes, Bredvold, this means that it will be a curative matter for one of the spouses to be exempted from the obligation to live. The question of the priest's place of residence was probably a matter with which the congregations concerned were also familiar during the process of adding a new pastor. Most performances in the Norwegian Church are assigned to residential housing. The system of residence for clerics has a long tradition. It is justified both in people’s needs for easy access to the pastor and in the possibility of movement and recruitment, in particular to the outings. In addition, the dwelling is often used as a work tool in the congregation. For the community, it is often felt as enriching that the pastor is part of the local environment. Prest who do not want to live in the presbytery may apply for an exemption from the obligation to live. Exemptions are granted when there are particular reasons. As an example, I can mention health issues, or that the pastor is approaching retirement age. In addition, applications for a residence waiver will have to be decided upon following a concrete assessment of both the merits and the personal circumstances of the individual case. The priest’s wish should be given great weight, but the duty of residence should not be liberalised to such an extent that the arrangements for housing for services are phased out, without the consequences being clarified and accepted both in the performance and in the Church. The issue of housing was raised at the last General Assembly of the Norwegian Church in September 2000. About two thirds of the assembly then voted to keep the obligation to live. When the performance accepts the obligation, it is probably due to the fact that it will be difficult to keep an offer of housing, without the obligation to live in the dwelling that is made available. This is an assessment agreed by the Ministry of Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1087	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. I interpret it to you that the case will be resolved for the best of all. That is to say, one dwelling obligation is waived, and that is good. But it should nevertheless not be a matter, it should be a matter of course, as I see it, that the priests themselves must be allowed to determine where they want to live and how they want to live. The Glåmdalen newspaper of 16 May says: ‘Egil Sundby, Director of the Information Service Fund, says to Glamdalen that there are no guidelines on how the Fund is to deal with this type of dispensation request from the place of residence.’ And: ‘It is not that easy for a person to obtain a dispensation from the place of residence.’ That's where it comes in that there must be more flexibility in such matters, but I interpret the answer from the Council of State to that it will now be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1103	In such cases as the representative Bredvold mentions here, there is an established practice that an exemption from the obligation of dwelling will be granted. It goes without saying that a parole pair should live in the same dwelling, and therefore they will receive a dispensation. With regard to the other part of Bredvold's point of view, namely that the priest himself should decide where to live, that question clearly belongs to the place of residence. It's not like that, as the arrangement is in the Church today, that the priest himself can decide this. Under certain specific conditions, a dispensation may be granted, but it must be assessed on a case-by-case basis, as I detailed in my first reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1110	I thank you once again for your answer. But the guidelines, at least as I interpret them from what was said in that article, are relatively vague, and perhaps they are simply missing. You have to look at this, so you get guidelines that are both flexible, simple and easy to deal with. Today's society is changing, and I think there are more priests today than it was before who want to get their own home, so to speak, to slip into the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1117	The question of the place of residence of the priests has been addressed in different contexts. Of course, there are different arguments, but overall, the Norwegian Church's clergy have also come to the conclusion that this is a decent and good order. As I referred to, a broad majority at the last general meeting agreed that the duty of living for the priests had to be continued, based on the arguments that are positive in relation to this. Of course, it is also true that in some cases there are good reasons for evading the obligation to live. After the information I have, there is a flexibility and an understanding in the system that allows a pastor who has good arguments, whether he approaches retirement age, there is a disease inside the picture, or there are other good reasons, which in this case, as the representative Bredvold now mentions, that the housing obligation can be waived. But as a general scheme, there is still a requirement for priests in the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1129	‘The Ministry of Oil and Energy has consulted on the draft action plan for waterborne heat. The draft contains no proposals for action, but only describes the current state and use of instruments. What has the Council of State planned to do to ensure that the action plan will also contain proposals for action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1136	Int. S. No 263 for 2000-2001 the Stortinget has asked the Government to draw up a national action plan for the development of waterborne heat infrastructure. In the context of this action plan, the Ministry has requested input from the industry on the objectives of a water-borne focus on heat, the barriers facing the industry, and any proposals for action. In order to ensure that the views of the industry are comprehensive, parts of the action plan based on industry input have now been sent to the parties involved for consultation. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is further working on the part of the action plan covering the follow-up of the Ministry and other authorities to waterborne heat investment. I can thus assure the representative Heidi Sørensen that it will be a separate chapter on action and follow-up by the authorities when the action plan arrives before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1145	Of course, I'm very happy to hear that. What surprises me about the starting point of this action plan is the description of reality. There has been no review of the resource base we might have taken into account, either in the case of bioenergy, in the case of process heat, or in the case of heat pump access. Nor has it been assessed which parts of the country have the best access to these resources. It is natural to think that Grenland has good access to process heat. It is natural to imagine that the Østerdalen has good access to forests and should give priority to bioenergy, while coastal areas, such as in Sogn and Fjordane, have a unique opportunity to use heat pump technology. An action plan for waterborne heat, where we are going to provide new and important infrastructure for the future, needs to look different from part of the country to part of the country, but it does not seem that any such action has been taken when creating this action plan, and it concerns me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1152	Now it may seem that the representative Sørensen has read more in this action plan than I myself have had occasion to do. I think it is most appropriate to discuss the content of this plan when it actually exists, and so it will do so before the summer vacation. But I can assure you that a number of the issues that the representative is now addressing will be a natural part of this action plan. I would also like to assume that in the consultation round that has now been discussed, recordings of the kind that the representative Heidi Sørensen addresses will also be commented on. After all, a consultation round shall be of benefit to the Ministry. So to the extent that there is constructive and good input, also in the direction that the representative now suggests, the ministry will, of course, take it into account and incorporate such views into the action plan. I would also like to refer to a debate which must come after a completed action plan in the department, and not in advance, as I now have the understanding that the representative Sørensen will be invited to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1159	Of course, I have a great deal of understanding for that. But of course, it also raises some concern – this action plan has been a heartchild since I was in the Energy Committee in 1997 and we started talking about this – when I read a draft that does not contain much more than what we presented in the 1997 investigation. It is then a little worried about the length of time between the adoption of an action plan and the implementation of actual actions. We've definitely come to that point that we need actions and concrete instruments that trigger this. That is why I am also keen to hear about the timetable for the oil and energy minister. If he has as little as he gives the impression now, it will probably keep it hard if this is to be finished by June, as it has previously been announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1166	I have no indication that we would not be able to complete this plan before the summer holiday. I'm a little indeterminate at the time, but before the summer holiday means before the big vacation starts. It will then be possible for both the industry and politicians to get involved in this. I note the great expectation that the representative of Heidi Sørensen has of the action plan. With the considerable expectation, I hope, of course, that I can meet those expectations positively. But when I hear the representative, I am a little uncertain whether I can meet the expectations in all parts. But it's an important document. This is about an energy resource that has been used far too little. My intention with this document is to get a boost and a renewed commitment and focus in relation to this unused energy source.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1177	This question, from Karita Bekkemelme Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative Eirin Faldet and answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1180	Since there are two temporary workers standing here, we're going to do the best part. I ask the following question: ‘By outreach on 12 May 2002, we heard that the conditions surrounding our child protection institutions are not good enough. Lack of supervision and quality is a fact. Mr Bondevik II drew up a draft law which would have ensured an approval system for private institutions. Will the Government now change its mind on this matter and promote the necessary legislative proposals that are ready for decision in the ministry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1191	This question was addressed at Odelstinget as late as April 18th this year. The reason for this was that the representatives Mr Bekkemel Orheim and Mr Faldet put forward a proposal for an approval system in Document No. 8:29 for 2001-2002. The proposal was identical to the proposal for approval submitted by the government of Stoltenberg i Ot.prp. No 15 for 2001-2002 which was subsequently withdrawn by the current government of Ot.meld. No 3 for 2001-2002. The proposal provides for a new provision allowing the Ministry of Children and the Family to regulate the quality requirements of child protection institutions and a specific authorisation system for private institutions. In the proposal, the county council is proposed as an approval body. The only reason why the proposal was withdrawn by the current government is the ongoing work on the future organisation of the county council's tasks in the area of child protection and family protection. If the county council is no longer to carry out child protection tasks, it is not appropriate to maintain the proposal on the county council as an approval body. The proposal for a new organisation has been consulted. Four alternative models were proposed in the consultation note: continued county responsibilities, overall transfer of all tasks to municipalities, overall transfer of all tasks to the state and a shared solution where the county council functions are shared between the state and the municipality. The hearing period expired on 5 April this year. Int. O. No 36 for 2001-2001 when the proposal by Mr Orheim and Mr Faldet was examined, the majority of the Committee stated that the proposal for an authorisation system should be treated as part of the overall review of the tasks of the county council in the area of child protection. The proposal was discussed at Odelstinget on 18 April this year and was not taken as a result of the majority for the same reason. The current government is in favour of an authorisation system, as expressed by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a number of times earlier this year. As soon as the Government has taken a decision on future organization, a proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget. It may be added that such a proposal on quality requirements and approval arrangements was included in the consultation note on future organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1202	I have to say thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Government is taking a positive view of the further development of this matter. The proposal as such is based on the fact that we are a little scared. We've heard from newscasts on television that the conditions around our child protection institutions are not good enough, and the lack of supervision and quality of the offer given to some of our most badly hit children is a fact. That's why it's urgent to start a system that makes a quality assurance child's home, because that's what it is. I accept that one will see this in connection with the tasks of the county council, but can one not yet use the county council, which, of course, has qualifications in this area, as an authorisation body – until further notice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1211	As mentioned above, the Government is in favour of an approval scheme. When this has not been achieved, it is linked, as also mentioned, with the future organisation. This is not a work that will take winter and spring. The starting point here is that as soon as the Government has taken a decision on a future organisation, a proposal in relation to the approval system will be submitted to the Stortinget. On behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I dare say that it is the same care and attention to this as the representative for the Fall, and the attitudes are the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1218	The reason I'm stressing this a little bit is that the children who have room in such an institution may need more security, closeness and love and a professionally well-organized offer that takes care of the individual child's particular life situation. The public is responsible for these children, and then it is also the responsibility of the public to ensure that the offer is as good as possible and that it is of good quality. And that's why I stress this with a public approval of the institutions as soon as possible. For these children don't have time to wait, and we have a system that the public is responsible for them. And then I hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will take back to the Minister of Children and Family that this is actually a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1223	Yes, the Minister of Social Affairs will bring it back. These children need a very special attention; it is fully understood by the Government, but it is closely associated with organisation and responsibility. And as I said earlier, as soon as the organisation is completed, what goes on follow-up, with proposals in relation to the approval system and quality requirements, will be sent to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1240	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1246	This question, from the representative Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1249	‘The gay health committee, which for 20 years has been the main partner of the authorities in the HIV prevention work against men having sex with men, is now threatened by closure following a 3 million grant. kr current year, a reduction in the upper edge of 25 pst. in relation to the allocation in 2001 and 32 pst. in relation to 2000. The size has previously underlined that HIV/AIDS prevention work still needs to be targeted at the most vulnerable. How does the Council of State think this can be done if the Health Committee has to be shut down?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1256	As the Council responsible for this matter, I will answer the question from Siri Hall Arnøy, in agreement with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. For the 2002 financial year, the budget has allocated 26.6 million. kr to cap. 719 entry 70 Action plan against the HIV/AIDS epidemic and infectious diseases. The funds shall cover several important purposes and not just HIV prevention alone. In addition to following up this work through the new strategy plan for the prevention of HIV and sexually transmitted diseases, the funds should also go towards high priority objectives within the Action Plan to counter antibiotic resistance, national contingency plan for pandemic influenza and other infectious diseases. The amount earmarked for the prevention of HIV and sexually transmitted diseases is in the year 16 million. kr. These funds are distributed to the Directorate for Social and Health by 12 million. kr, to the National Institute for Public Health of 3.6 million. and for a life-cycle project on people with HIV/AIDS at a research institution of 0.4 million. kr. The rest is assigned to the other purposes that I mentioned for antibiotic resistance of 8 million. kr and for the protection of infection in general by SEK 2,6 million. kr. The Social and Health Directorate is now responsible for allocating funds for these purposes. For 2001, the Health Commission applied for 4.79 million. NOK and received SEK 4,075 million. kr. For 2002, the application was nearly 6.5 million. kr. The Directorate has, as the questioner points out, committed 3 million. kr for 2002. Of this amount, the Health Committee has already received 1.8 million. DKK in advance, so that the balance for 2002 will be SEK 1,2 million. kr. The amount of the application also included expenditure on prevention of drug use and suicide and attempted suicide, and the Social and Health Directorate has shown in its letter of commitment that this must be seen in the context of the follow-up of St.meld. No 25 for 2000-2001 Life years and quality of life for lesbians and gays. The Health Committee may also seek financial support through channels other than the grant scheme to prevent HIV and sexually transmitted diseases. In the follow-up to the Storing Communication, several departments have used information resources, such as suicide prevention among homosexuals. Recently, the Ministry of Children and Family had a call for such funds, from which the Health Committee can and should apply for grants. On this basis, I cannot see that a continuation of the work of the Health Committee would be on government grants. It is very important to prevent HIV and sexually transmitted diseases among men having sexual relations with men, and our cooperation with non-governmental organisations, both the Health Committee and the LMA, is central to this. At the same time, the Strategy Plan for the Prevention of HIV and Sexually Transmissible Diseases presents many other major challenges. It is more important than ever to strike a proper balance between targeted efforts towards particularly vulnerable groups and general measures for the general population. It is also important to intensify the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases as well as the prevention of HIV. Important initiatives in the future are: the level of knowledge and information in the population must be improved; the gender perspective should be strengthened into plans, priorities and actions; the prevention of asylum seekers, refugees and others with a migrant background; and stigmatisation and discrimination against people with HIV and AIDS should be combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1271	I thank the Council of State for the complementary answer. Of course, I am pleased that the Council of State's position seems to be that the intention of the Storting in terms of prevention should be fulfilled, and that the Health Committee will also have to be able to continue its work. As I understood the council, he believed that the important thing now was not what post this money came from, but that it was money. Of course, it's a good and practical approach that I share. But equally, I would like the Council of State to clarify this further, as the Council of State also referred to the Health Directorate. Is it true that the Council of State believes that it will be necessary for the Health Committee to receive more money, from somewhere, in order to be able to do its important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1278	I believe that all parties are served that the application procedure does not take place in the Grand Duchy's Question Time. What I can say is that, in my opinion, 3 million. a significant amount of money for preventive action in the field of health. In addition, once the Storting has allocated money to the action plan, which is a result of the news of gay and lesbian living conditions, and money is spent on measures such as: the prevention of suicide, which was included in the Health Committee’s application to the Social and Health Directorate, I believe that this should be the basis for creating an economic basis for the activities of the Health Committee that are acceptable to them. But if that's the case, the Health Committee has to judge for itself, I can't judge that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1285	I will not follow up on going into the individual grants in more detail. We might get back to this once we've seen how the distribution of funds has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1300	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1306	This question, addressed to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1309	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Norwegian fishermen are currently represented by Norway’s Fiskarlag and Norway’s Coastal Fisheries Team. Although both organisations represent fishermen, Norwegian fisheries authorities differ between the two professional organisations. Norway’s Coastal Fisheries Team has difficulties in obtaining the right to consult and does not receive representation in relevant forums such as the Regulatory Council and the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, where the Norwegian Fisheries Team is represented. What will the Council of State do to remedy this discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1318	Norway’s coastal fishing teams have been actively involved in the last few years and have made more input into the regulation of participation in and the exercise of fishing activities. Norway's Coastal Fisheries Act is a consultative body in all matters relating to the regulation of fisheries. It is therefore not correct that the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team does not have the right to consult. The task of negotiating common stocks in the Barents Sea with Russia and of managing Norway’s share of these resources has been assigned to the Ministry of Fisheries. The negotiating delegation is appointed by the Ministry of Fisheries on the basis of a balanced assessment, based on representation by industry and management, legitimacy in industry and negotiation tactics, and that the delegation must have a manageable size. As regards representation from the fishing industry, the Ministry emphasises that the whole of the industry concerned is to be represented by the participating delegates. The Ministry of Fisheries has therefore chosen to include the major organisations representing the breadth of the fishing industry: the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Land Association of Fisheries and the Maritime Industries and the LO. In other words, the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team is not represented in the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. There is a diversity of organisations in the Norwegian fishing industry. Some of these organisations are Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team, South Norway's Trålerlag, the Norwegian Seafood Association and the Shipowners' Association for the Ringnot vessel under 70 ft. It goes without saying that with regard to the size of the delegation for fisheries negotiations with Russia, the EU, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland, etc. may only include the largest organisations. The Norwegian Coastal Fishery Act currently has the status of observer in the Regulatory Council. The term of office of the Board of Regulators expires this year and a new Board of Regulators must be appointed before the regulations are laid down in November/December. In view of the absence of the functioning of the Board of Regulators, the functioning of the Council and the composition of the Council will be carefully evaluated. In this context, the status of the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team in the Board of Regulators will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1331	I thank you for your answer. A little bit of my intention was to know what was the problem of bringing the Coastal Fishery Team into the bodies where the Fishlayer is a member today, because in other business contexts, we usually leave the various professional organisations represented separately. I agree that there is a diversity of organisations in the fishing industry, but a good part of them is a member of the Fiskerlag, for example. the purse seiners, while the coastal fishing team is a purely professional organisation representing fishermen in the same way as the Fishery Team. I am pleased that one here will assess the position of the Coastal Fishery Team in relation to the Board of Regulators. I think maybe that's the most important thing. I also wanted one here to have taken a slightly more open position when it came to the negotiating delegation for the Norwegian-Russian negotiations. How long can one expect it to take before the Government will appoint a new Board of Regulators, when the regulation will have to be completed in November? Is it possible to say something more about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1344	The term of office of the Board of Regulators expires this year, in which case it is indicated that a new Board of Regulators must be appointed before the regulations are laid down in November and December. So this is the timing of that, and in that context we will also make the assessment that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1352	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: «2002 is declared the Year of Fire Protection of Agriculture». Close cooperation between, inter alia: the agriculture, insurance companies, electricity and public oversight bodies are implemented different measures to prevent fire. In 2001, the damage resulting from a vehicle fire was estimated to be 1.8 billion. kr. 61 lives were lost. Half of the fires are probably due to a lack of quality in electrical installations. Will the Council of State initiate cooperation for a year of fire protection for dwellings by model of the Agricultural Fire Protection Committee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1361	In addition to creating tragedies for individuals, residential fires pose a major social problem. Statistics from the Directorate of Fire and Electricity Safety show that there were 65 fatalities in fires in 2001, of which 56 in residential fires. Norwegian insurance company paid NOK 3.2 billion in compensation for residential fires. Branner has both technical and human causes. Smoking, fire, electricity and misuse of electrical equipment are among the most frequent causes. Thus, efforts to prevent residential fires have focused on awareness-raising and simple measures that most people can take on their own. From the beginning of the 1990s, the central authorities, in close cooperation with municipal fire services, local electricity regulators, Norwegian Fire Protection Association, the insurance industry, local health professionals and several other bodies, have cooperated on awareness-raising measures, on the one hand, as nationwide campaigns, using a variety of instruments, such as the smoke detector campaign, fire protection weeks and housing fires, on the other, etc. These have greatly contributed to the fact that even more lives have not been lost and that we have not lost even greater values in residential industries. These campaigns continue to be carried out each year. In St.meld. No 41 for 2000-2001 it has been set as an overall national target that the average number of fatalities in building fires should be significantly reduced compared to the average over the period 1995-1999. In this context, at least 10 pst is thought to be significant. In order to achieve this objective, efforts need to continue to focus on prevention measures in close cooperation between authorities, municipal fire services, local electricity regulators, etc. We record that the number of deaths in residential industries varies slightly from year to year. It's hard to see what's the cause of these variations, but we don't have an unlucky development, to say it mildly. However, there is reason to believe that systematic and long-term prevention work, including, among others: awareness-raising campaigns are an important tool. We are now considering, together with cooperative bodies, strengthening efforts to prevent residential fires. In the first place, I have invited various actors to a meeting in June this year, where we will look at various actions to be implemented in the future, which can provide closer cooperation between public and private bodies on precisely fire prevention work. In this respect, I would also like to consider the proposal by the representative, Mr Kleppa, on a year of fire protection for dwellings. However, I would like to stress that agricultural and housing conditions are not entirely comparable. For agriculture, technical measures are the main thing. So in the case of housing, it is primarily a matter of attitude-creating work. However, marking a year of fire protection for dwellings can be an idea that there is every reason to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1374	I thank you for your answer. It is good that the Council of State will take a closer look at the idea of an own year of fire protection. NELFO – South Rogaland recently presented an investigation there 45 pst. by those who were asked, knew that the owner was responsible for the electrical system. 30 pst. of the consumers who served in dwellings between 6 and 20 years of age had not used electricians. I thought it was alarming numbers in relation to the fact that perhaps half of the fires were caused by an error in the electrical system. 67 pst. In fact, households were also positive for closer control of their electrical installations. It's on the basis of these numbers I think it might be relevant to look closer to a particular year. So I want to challenge the Council of State: what other measures does he see as relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1383	I have been involved in the specific awareness campaigns, which in themselves are very important. Having a fire year I think is something that is all reason to consider. But we have to remember that these targeted campaigns targeting specific areas that it is important to raise awareness of among people, in themselves, must be an important part of this work. I think all kinds of knowledge that people can get about what they have to be aware of, what are danger areas, and what they need professional assistance for -- all kinds of knowledge of that kind -- is necessary if we are to bring down the number of residential industries, and in particular reduce the number of deaths associated with residential industries. There has to be close cooperation between private and public actors, which is very well illustrated by this issue of electrical installations. Ultimately, it becomes a question of suitability whether or not we want to bring together all these activities in a specific fire protection year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1392	I share the opinion of the Council of State that the situation in Norway is more special before agriculture, and that it must work in a broad field, both with awareness-raising and with increased knowledge. However, it is interesting to note that, as a target, the fire protection committee of this agricultural sector is to require all farmers to implement at least one fire prevention measure on the farm during the year of the investment and to have livestock producers as a specific target group. And so good response is reported that the demand for fire alarm systems is far greater than the installation capacity. It is a good premise this year – this committee has worked well for three years. I ask the Council of State to take along the experience of the year of agricultural fire protection so far, to follow up on what is happening for the rest of the year, and to intensify efforts. I also record that the Council of State is operating with much larger numbers of injuries and loss of life than I had in my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1401	Finally, let me just thank the representative for the proposal, which I think is a very good proposal, which is worth considering. I think it might be even more important than the actual proposal that attention be given to residential industries and the tragedies they bring. It's very important that we have an ongoing awareness of this, and not least it's important that we make sure that most people have a clearer awareness of what they themselves have to do to prevent fires, and even more so to prevent fires from having disastrous consequences. I believe that both the representative Kleppa and I agree that we need to use the tools needed to create that awareness. And I will, as I said, look very carefully at the proposal of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1419	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1426	The question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: ‘According to the Consumer Inspectors programme, sent in NRK1 on 8 May this year, the Spirit Producer and Spirit Importer Guinness UDV have travelled to several Norwegian cities with a larger specialised trailer and are engaged in the illicit marketing of alcoholic beverages, including: in the case of a free serving for young people. What is the reaction of the Council of State to investigate and punish such a possible gross violation of alcohol laws, and which of these possible reactions might it consider taking advantage of in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1435	The aim of the alcohol law is to limit the social and individual adverse effects of alcohol use, including: by limiting the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Both the ban on the distribution of alcoholic beverages for marketing purposes and the ban on the advertising of alcoholic beverages are important instruments in this context. It is the Ministry of Social Affairs that has the overall responsibility to manage the rules. This responsibility has been delegated to the Directorate for Social and Health, which will inform, guide and follow up requests from individuals, municipalities and others. The Directorate has also been delegated responsibility for the State licensing system for the production and wholesale sale of alcohol. In addition, municipalities may react to infringements they become aware of during checks on sales and donations and by other means. The matter raised by the Aarøen representative is being dealt with in the Social and Health Directorate, and I cannot therefore go into it specifically. In general, the directorate, when it becomes aware of violations of the provisions, will point out the unlawful relationship with the offender and, at the same time, encourage it to rectify it. The law has two sanctions against infringements: withdrawal of municipal or state authorization under the Alcohol Act, cf. §§ 1-8 and 3A-12, and police report, cf. Section 10-1. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that in March of this year I presented a proposal to the Stortinget for amendments to the Alcohol Act and the Tobacco Damage Act to ensure more effective enforcement of the advertising ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1446	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Increased alcohol use often leads to increased harm. That's why we've banned this from advertising. It's important to knock down those who cross, especially if there's strong commercial interests inside the image. I would also like to say that it was commendable by the NRK to discover this matter. What I'm most concerned about is that this advertising campaign through several cities could take longer without anyone responding. According to the list in the papers, there were quite a number of them inside. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: What could the Council of State do to prevent similar violations of the advertising ban by such a special marketing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1457	This has both the Department and the Directorate for Social and Health vigilance in relation to this. We reacted quickly, and we're also going to do similar and similar things in the future. To just say a little about progress, on 6 May, a letter was sent from the Social and Health Directorate to the Guinness UDV, where they were asked to explain themselves – with three weeks’ notice. In addition, the director of the same company contacted the director of the Social and Health Directorate and asked for a meeting. It's also been a meeting. It was May 14th. And on 16 May, the Social and Health Directorate received a letter, writing that they take the matter seriously, and that they will come back with more information about invited participants to business meetings, activities during industry meetings and the range of taste samples. What is the main challenge in this case and in future cases, if any, is the question: Was this industry meeting or not? Everything so far could indicate that it wasn't, but we're going to await the explanation from the Guinness U.D.V. There has been a similar case in the media that goes on a completely different brand, at Bacardi-Martini Norway AS, and a similar letter has also been sent to them. So we follow it closely up. We're going to have vigilance, and we're also going to act in relation to the information and knowledge we get – plus that we're going to keep close contact with the corresponding industries in relation to what's inappropriate according to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1472	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘More municipalities are struggling to provide adequate housing, especially for people with drug problems. Paradoxically, several sites are used for expensive and inappropriate solutions such as shelters and camping cabins. Will the Council of States put in place specific measures to ensure that people with drug problems have a decent housing and a better chance of good rehabilitation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1481	I am pleased that the representative Storberget addresses this question. It's an important issue that I'm very concerned about. Unfortunately, it may seem that it is difficult to provide suitable housing for drug users, while housing is a prerequisite for good rehabilitation. That it is difficult, however, should not be a decisive obstacle, and my starting point is that we should provide a little extra for this group. I would first like to stress that it is a municipal responsibility to provide both temporary and more permanent housing services for, among other things. drug abusers. The problem is not that municipalities do not provide housing, but the quality of many of these housing services. The government is working in several areas on this issue, and in line with the Sem Declaration, we want to give priority to the efforts of the homeless. We would like, among other things: review housing support rules to improve housing measures for disadvantaged people, review the House Bank legislation with a view to contributing more to the construction of housing for this group, and develop support/loan schemes for non-governmental organisations committed to providing housing as an alternative to social disadvantaged accommodation. In the poverty action plan, with which the Ministry is running, this is one of the challenges actively addressed. The Government has continued the ‘Project homeless’, which as of this year has been extended by two municipalities, to seven. The main objective of the work is to develop methods and models to prevent homelessness, to allow testing of local holistic solutions and to provide a basis for experience in national efforts and strategies. Experience and knowledge dissemination must also be central to this work, which is well under way. This issue is also addressed in the action plan on drug problems, which the Government intends to present to the autumn. I have also taken the initiative to develop and ensure quality standards for shelters and other temporary housing services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1494	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I do not doubt the will to do anything. I am also pleased with the angle of the answer, because if you look around in Norwegian municipalities, you can see a situation where you can offer a much better accommodation than what is being offered today with reasonably simple handles, indeed cheap. In this way, it is strange that 40–50 years ago, what has been done for citizens in very common situations and in work, i.e. building homes, has almost become an impossibility for many Norwegian municipalities today, even when you can do it more reasonably than the actual offer. What I want from the Council of State is whether she can now make specific, concrete measures, such as investment incentives or new resources, or whether we are going to go into regulations in relation to setting the standard that such housing should have. If someone needs a garden — to put it graphically — to ensure rehabilitation, it is precisely the drug addicts. Is there anything concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1503	Yes, there are guidelines to ensure the quality of the housing to be offered. In addition, I was in the answer that we work in several areas in relation to what prompted the question from the representative Storberget. There we are going to give priority, as mentioned, to homeless people — there are also many drug users in that group. We are reviewing housing support rules, we are reviewing the House Bank legislation, and we are opening up support/loan schemes for non-governmental organisations. But I stress again that the municipalities are responsible for this work. It is then important that we have guidelines, rules and frameworks that enable municipalities to handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1512	I thank you for your answer. We fully agree that the municipalities must have primary responsibility for this. But it seems that in many ways, including from the central level, you now have to put further pressure on this, and also further focus on it, because we see that more municipalities today offer a standard that is far below pari. Both campsites and shelters are very unsuitable for those who actually seek to rehabilitate themselves back to what most of us would call a normal life. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State if she has any timetable and time limit for when these final measures are to be completed by the Government, so that we can get further pressure on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1521	We have said about the autumn, both in relation to the action plan on drug problems and to the action plan on poverty. That the representative of Storberget is involved in this, I am actually very pleased. I am very pleased with the question as well. The representative requests pressure. Then I have to say that when we have extended the «Project homeless» to several municipalities, it is because we keep pressure. When we just a few weeks ago announced that we would have guidelines in relation to ensuring the quality of the housing standard, it is also keeping pressure. I feel that here we have the same intention, namely to improve conditions. We have to work across departments, but also parties, to get this done. That's how I like the commitment, and I'm going to increase the focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1540	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1547	This question, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1550	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: «Many municipalities have worn out financially since the full statehood of corporate tax in 1998. With this conversion, municipalities probably lost an incentive to facilitate business development. The Minister of Local Affairs has previously called for a greater proportion of corporate tax to remain in the individual municipality where the enterprise is located. The batch of progress has been merged into such a conversion. How far has the Council of State come in this conversion, and what time can municipalities expect to get a greater share of corporate tax back?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1559	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Hagesetter that it is important that municipalities also receive a purely financial incentive to facilitate business activities. The Sem statement therefore stated that the Government will work to provide the municipalities with part of the tax from the profits of the companies. However, let me make it clear that such a conversion in isolation will not affect the total income of municipalities. When the municipal corporation tax was abolished in 1999, municipalities were compensated for by higher taxes on persons. Similarly, municipal corporation tax means that other municipal income will be reduced. Therefore, the fact that many municipalities are struggling financially is hardly due to the loss of municipal corporation tax. On the other hand, it is important for municipalities to receive part of the corporate tax as an incentive to work for more industrial activities. An inter-ministerial working group was therefore set up from the turn of the year to explore different models to provide municipalities with some of the surplus tax. The old local tax rules were not perceived as fair. As a result, the task of the working group has been to identify different models in which the tax is allocated to municipalities according to different rules than those applicable under the old system. It is still too early to say something about when proposals for new rules can be made, or when municipalities will mark the conversion financially. Such conversion requires thorough preparation, and I therefore consider it very important that a proposal contains robust distribution rules. When the conversion may take place, inter alia, it will depend on: whether a choice of a model is made within or outside the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1568	I would like to start by thanking you for your answer. I am at least satisfied that a person is working on the issue, and that one also agrees that it is important for municipalities to be given an incentive to facilitate the development of businesses. When it comes to what was said, that this does not have anything to say about the total income of municipalities, it is probably also true macroeconomically distributed among all municipalities, but I think there are some municipalities that have a lot of nutritional development that feel that they are getting worse. I do not feel that I have received an answer when a plan to introduce that the municipalities get a part back. I could also expect to get a certain signal about the percentage of the municipalities will get from the company tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1580	It is quite right that the representative did not receive an answer when this will be implemented – for the simple reason that I have no answer when it is implemented. It's important, as I said in the first post, that this work is done thoroughly. The old system did not work well in relation to different municipalities. We therefore need to develop a system that is seen to be fair and, at the same time, gives municipalities incentives to pursue active business development. And we have to take the time needed to get it done. With regard to the proportion of corporation tax to be paid to municipalities, if any, it is related to the question of the type of model that can be found that works well. So I can unfortunately not answer that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1587	I must then note that the Council of State is more diffuse when it comes to informing the Storting than to informing parts of the business. In the Bergen Council of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs said this year that the most likely thing will happen with effect from 2004. So I didn't get that answer here today. But as this is said, there is pressure in a public magazine, and it's not repudiated, I assume that what the government is aiming for is that one can have a change from the financial year 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1592	I am absolutely sure that the Minister of the Municipal Council is aware of everything she has said publicly. At the same time, I have understood the question in the Chamber here today to the point that the Stortinget, or the representative Hageseter, was not interested in a probability assessment. That's why I think it's right to say that we can't now say exactly when the proposal is going to be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1597	Question 22 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1603	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘With today’s high cost and crown price, the profitability of the Norwegian process industry is consistently low. This may lead to more closures and deflagration of Norwegian industry. The Government has clarified whether this will result in increased emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants when Norwegian production is replaced by less efficient and coal-based industries in e.g. China, India and Venezuela?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1612	I have noted with great interest the concern of the representative of Klungland for the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry. This government is committed to improving the framework conditions for business. This year, Norwegian enterprises are experiencing the biggest tax reliefs ever. The investment tax will be completely removed and the depreciation rules will be reversed. The government will conduct a responsible economic policy to keep interest rates down. All of this helps to make investing in Norway more favourable. However, in order to avoid global warming, which is the biggest global environmental challenge facing us, significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are necessary. The government’s policy is that a significant share of the emission reductions committed by Norway under the Kyoto Agreement shall be national. This is why the Government of the Supplementary Communication on Climate Policy, where we are also alerting a more offensive climate policy, proposes an early national quota system instead of voluntary agreements proposed by the previous government, and a number of other measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions before 2008. The quota system will also provide a climate change agent to the Norwegian process industry that is not currently facing any climate change instruments – they do not pay CO2 taxes like the rest of the industry, they do not pay electricity taxes like the rest of the industry. I'm not imposing any of these charges, but I'm saying that if you can reduce by 20 pst. prior to 2008, resources may be used to invest in environmental measures to achieve this rather than to pay taxes. This is good environmental policy. Of course, it is difficult to identify the climate impact on emissions of shutting down industry in a country. Firstly, the reason for this may be overcapacity on the world market — as we have seen in some places also in Norway so far — so that closure does not lead to new production in another country. A keyword here is magnesium production. Secondly, it is rarely possible to trace which new production replaces the deceased. Thirdly, there are also opportunities for production based on new technologies and non-fossil energy sources in developing countries. Fourth, Norway also imports coal power during periods to meet its own power needs, i.e. that about 30 pst., I think, by the force today goes to the type of industry that Klungland is concerned about. The climate accounts are therefore uncertain. However, Norwegian industry generally holds a high environmental standard. Therefore, no unnecessary closures in Norwegian industry have been made due to poor framework conditions. The government therefore proposes that the greenhouse gas allowance system be designed in such a way as to avoid the closure of activities that are profitable with a national allowance price during the Kyoto period due to particularly high climate costs before 2008. The proposed allowance system is carefully designed, with the free allocation of allowances — as well as security valves in the form of an infringement fee, the opening of international allowances trading and the joint implementation of activities that are not subject to allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1627	I see that the Minister for the Environment has problems answering the question that was actually asked, if they had clarified whether they would increase environmental emissions if the industry were to move out. That's why I want to put this into practice a little bit. Tinfos Jernverk AS, Øye Melting Plant, uses coal and coke in the process in its industry, while using hydropower as an energy source. So the need is growing worldwide in relation to products when they also have an increased growth in their production. If the worst thing is happening now – what has been announced – that we get the climate quota system that the Minister for the Environment has presented, that we get the electricity tax and that the strong price of the krona is going to break down, that means 100 million. kr for the operating result of that holding of one year. And that's one of the strongest companies in Norway. If they move out, the CO2 emissions will increase to more than triple. Does the Minister for the Environment agree with such a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1634	Fortunately, it is not Klungland who decides and is objective in relation to whether I answer the questions I am asked, or not. I believe that I answered absolutely what the question was about. Of course, the fact that Klungland didn't like the answer is something else. But I answered that. The question from Klungland is how closures in Norway will work in relation to global climate accounts. Some closures are due to the fact that the companies no longer have a market, i.e. that it is not economically profitable to continue – I have mentioned magnesium production. The government says that enterprises in the process industry should not face the type of instruments before 2008, that they will be unprofitable if they will be profitable after 2008. But the most eye-catching thing about the issue that Klungland is now actually asking is that the representative said that the worst thing that can happen is that the Government's proposal for a national quota system is being adopted. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party has now concluded that it is only going on voluntary agreements and not on a national quota system, I am really afraid that the party is really looking like climate hosting. It might also be interesting to see if this is the conclusion of this party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1641	Now it is probably the case that the questioner asks questions to the Council of State. As regards the position of the Workers' Party in this matter, Børge Brende has hopefully read what the Workers' Party stands for. That means that we'll obviously achieve the same ratios as Børge Burnde, but maybe we have other and more effective ways to do it. The problem is that this company, Eye Melting Plant, with a quota of 80 pst. will have a load of 36 million. kr that they have to pay for what they use in the process. With the electricity charge, they will get the equivalent, and the exchange rate means about the same amount. So it says a company that is internationally profitable, that creates values for the country, that provides jobs, and it's good district policy that this industry is where it does. Nevertheless, the Minister for the Environment does not seem to care so much about maintaining these jobs. I would like to ask the question: Is the Minister for the Environment prepared for the industry to actually fly out of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1652	It's almost so you have to pinch your arm here to really realize that the question that now came up was asked. Of course, I'm not because the industry that is currently profitable in Norway is going to be unprofitable because of a national quota system. It is also clear from the additional communication on climate policy that Norwegian industry should also have good framework conditions in the future. What the representative of Klungland says is to achieve the same greenhouse gas reductions with voluntary agreements as with a national quota system. He believes that a national quota system is the worst thing that can happen. Nevertheless, he says that it may happen that the Workers' Party is also in favour of it. There's something about the logic where I don't get to vote. I think the representative should be happy that I am not in this position right now that I can ask questions back. But I'm very excited to see where the Workers' Party is. On the part of the Government, it is quite clear – it is clear – that Norwegian industry should not have any worse framework conditions than industry elsewhere. Much of the Norwegian process industry operates very well, and they are without CO2 tax and without electricity tax today. In addition, it can be trusted that this government has a comprehensive industrial policy. We do not drive and introduce a levy, change the depreciation rules, change our mind in relation to important tax regimes – that is important. The interest shall be kept where it is and we shall have a good national allowance system which means that one can use the resources to invest in environmental measures instead of paying in fees where one does not receive environmental results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1667	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Ministry’s pilot study on container port in Oslofjorden launches three local container port solutions. Kambo/Jeloya in Moss municipality are important open-air areas for large parts of the population of the East. Is it acceptable for the Council of State to transfer goods to Oslo from keel to car 6 miles from Oslo from an overall environmental perspective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1676	I am aware that a pilot study has been developed on the port structure in Oslofjord. The pilot study was developed by a steering group with representatives of the Ministry of Fisheries, Oslo Havnevesen and Grenland Havnevesen. Oslo Portevesen’s action plan for the implementation of Fjordbyen requires that container traffic can be moved out in 2011/2012. As a result, during the examination of the national transport plan 2002-2011, Stortinget has pointed out that regional port solutions need to be provided, including the establishment of an interregional port company for the Oslo area. The location of a new container port for Eastern Europe has many environmental aspects. It is important to facilitate the movement of a larger part of freight from road to sea. For the same reason, it is important that the transport to and from the port can be done as far as possible by rail. Attention must also be paid to the importance of outdoor and nature protection interests. Further work will be undertaken by the Ministry of the Environment as both an environmental protection authority and as the top planning authority under the Planning and Building Act. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot therefore comment on the various options now, alternatives that the Minister for Fisheries is working on and that it is right to address him. But I would like to add that none of these current options are unproblematic from an environmental point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1685	I thank you for your answer. One of the suggestions for the location of the container port is Jeleya at Moss. This is an island with large landscape protection areas and unique natural resources. National policy guidelines have been followed up by local politicians. The cabin owners have not been able to build on as much as 10 m2. There is no infrastructure on the island, and I would like to compare the proposal with laying a container port in Nordmarka, although I admit that the access by boat is better on Jeløia. Kambo and the other proposed areas are also valuable natural and outdoor areas, where the Minister for the Environment was concerned. Have not the departments initially cooperated on the elections? And have you not initially assessed the environmental impact of the proposed locations? It seems like you've just seen a green area on the map and found out that there's room for containers, and then you put it there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1694	As I also said in my first answer, none of these current options are unproblematic from an environmental point of view. But the Ministry of the Environment comes in two ways. One is in relation to the environmental aspects, and the other is as the top level planning authority. I have a very good dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries about this. The Minister of Fisheries has also confirmed that none of the three solutions are environmentally unproblematic — then you have to add to what you want. I have also noticed the burning commitment that the representative has for a great area like Jelaua/Moss, which has very many qualities, and which is also a landscape protection area. It is the type of assessment that will also be included in the overall assessment. The three options that you have so far worked with are not unproblematic. This has also been emphasised by the Minister for Fisheries and actually asked me to say today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1705	I thank you again for the answer. There is a large grassroots movement towards the location of a new container port in Oslofjord. This applies on both sides of the fjord – the Minister for the Environment knows it. Moss city government has had three unanimous decisions against the location of a container port in Kambo. Jelau has not been evaluated, so it came as a shock to us that it was suggested. What the Minister for the Environment does not answer, and as I see it as the most important question here, is whether one can actually defend from an environmental point of view to tranship goods six miles from Oslo, from keel to car, on a road network that is so heavily loaded. I was looking for that environmental perspective after the Minister for the Environment was able to respond to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1716	I believe that I responded in my first answer. It has now been raised again in the third question from the representative. As I said in my first answer, the goal must be to get more of the transport on the road. It's also a goal that you get more of the transport across the sea. But we don't want any more transport along the roads. It is the government's objective, as is also evident from various documents that we have presented to the Stortinget, the collective communication and what we have also said in the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1723	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-22.ana.ud696e1734	There is no record.
