ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e28	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e37	The values of the Aviation Agency are built up over the years by user charges paid by passengers. This means that the values taken into account by the Aviation Administration AS in the new company are not funds paid by the State and thus have a return or dividend claim. The funds have been used for many years to build up the Aviation Agency, and the many airports in the country owned by the Aviation Agency have been substantially paid by users. The background to the Budget Agreement with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left for 2002 was that the Aviation Agency should be transformed into a public limited liability company and that the operation of the Aviation Agency should be as efficient as possible. It was also a prerequisite for such an improvement in efficiency to benefit users through a lower air passenger charge. In my opinion, it is incomprehensible that we should be able to make a profit from an enterprise where it is the airline passengers who have paid in the values that lie there for many years. In fact, it is submitted to an assessment at a later stage whether to come back with a case to assess the dividends. It is totally against the Advancement Party. We believe that we should already decide whether to make a profit in the future. That we have a return claim of 7-7.6 pst. of the total capital is to the extent practicable as long as it is a measure. But if you achieve that goal, you're going to get a return of $1.1 billion. The Progress Party did not wish to open up the possibility of taking this or any part of it in return. It is, as I said, user-related charges that have been paid by passengers to build up the values that are there, and then passengers will have to get this back in the form of lower charges. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that the Board of Directors of the Aviation Agency ‘must have as its management objective the use of any surplus to lower the user-related air passenger charges’. Unfortunately, we are obviously alone in having that goal. It is also the case that in the future, the Aviation Agency AS will have a board. We want the board to reflect the owners, that is. that we should have user groups into the board. User groups may be e.g. NHO or other major users. They will be able to implement and push efficiency into the company. We also want the airlines to be represented in the new board of aviation, given that airlines will have a self-interest in keeping air fares low, and they can be involved in this by being represented on the board. It must also be such that the future Aviation Agency should have greater freedom to use the charges in order to increase the passenger base. But it must not be otherwise than that you have the opportunity to have different charges after what time of day you use the airport. So, when there is a high demand for landing and relief, you have to be able to have higher prices than if you use the airport in other periods. It should also be such that those using the services at the aerodrome have to pay more for this than those not using the services, for example. certain catering companies. The Progress Party has agreed that the equity of the company should be 33 p.m., or 25 p.m. for the group. It is relatively low in relation to the establishment of other state companies. The progress party suggests that it should be 40 pst. equity in the company, and we do that by lowering the commitments of NOK 3 billion on the main route network and NOK 1.75 billion on the regional network, respectively. It comes back through proposals in the budget-inner. S. No 6 of the Financial Committee. With this I present the proposal to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e56	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e59	In the budget agreement in the autumn of 2002, the Bondevik II Government concluded an agreement with the Progress Party to convert the Aviation Administration into a limited liability company. Earlier this year, we dealt with the transformation of the NSB and the Post into a limited liability company. During the evening, the Stortinget will decide that both the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Swedish Road Administration’s production department are to be converted into a limited liability company. During the last year, the Progress Party and the Right have finally achieved a positive impact on their year-long struggle to transform state management companies into limited liability companies. This will change Norwegian infrastructure policy in many areas. The right-hand side's policy is implemented with the Christian People's Party as a guarantor and as a passive participant and spectator. The Working Party believes that the Swedish Aviation Agency, organised as a management company, would best meet the national objectives of the aviation sector. That is why we opposed the transformation into a limited liability company. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority to continue the aviation industry as a management company. It is only to be noted that the majority of the population made a basic decision in the autumn of 2002, and that is what we are dealing with. The Workers' Party is particularly concerned that the government's and the Advance Party's policies are going to go beyond the provision of air services in the districts. The majority entrust too much priority to the board and management of the Aviation Administration AS. This may lead to excessive emphasis on economic conditions at the expense of society’s needs. Both individual needs and business needs will be weakened. It is worrying that the Progress Party in the suspension states that the main objective of the party is that each aerodrome should be a separate share company. If this is achieved by the Progress Party, it may mean the safe death of many airports. This must be made known, so that District Norway can understand which policy the Progress Party wants to pursue, and what the consequences of such a policy can be. There is a high investment need in the aerodrome network, both in relation to new safety requirements and to improvements to ensure rational operation. It is therefore necessary that the Aviation Agency AS be given the opportunity to finance this. That is what the Workers' Party will do by increasing the equity of the Aviation Agency in addition to the Government's proposal for equity, and I refer to the consideration of this by the Finance Committee in the Budgetary Section. S. No 6 for this year. There are good reasons to ask questions about the requirement that the Government makes for returns and dividends is realistic. A closer review of the ASI's return and dividend policy is therefore necessary. This should be done in the context of the revised budget for 2003. The same applies to the estimate of increase in operating costs. In recent years, the Swedish Aviation Agency has had an annual increase in operating costs of 4-6 pst. As a limited liability company, it is estimated that the operating costs will be approx. 2 pst. towards 2020 and 1 pst. towards 2050. It is strange that operating costs can be reduced in such a way as not to affect the offer made to travellers. In 2003, 250 million will be used. kr on government purchases of air navigation services. The working party considers it necessary to assess how much is to be used for government purchases in the annual budgets. We cannot put ourselves in a position that makes it impossible for the Storting to go in and increase the appropriations for government purchases. Finally, I would like to say that it is necessary to maintain and further develop the solidarity funding system for airports. In this setting, the Labour Party has proposed amendments. This will be explained by the representative of Starrfeld in a later article. The working party is concerned about airports in Norway. It is related to the provision of more business-economic governance and less political governance by the Government. It will, in our opinion, weaken the airports in Norway. At the same time, the needs of the population and business will be greatly reduced if this results. And then we see the effects as things are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e82	The Bondevik government has the ambition to modernise its administration in Norway. It sounds squeaky dry and boring, but behind the words there are exciting, interesting and not least important realities. It is about resource use, about spending taxpayers' money as far as possible, and about respect for the wear and tear and risk of investors upon whom value creation and jobs depend. It is about providing the best possible service to all those in need of support, and it is about helping those in charge of value creation in Norway. Therefore, the modernisation and efficiency of Norwegian administration is as much a social project as it is called market governance. Elegant organisational charts are good, but essential is work for everyone and effective help to society's weak. That is why this is a central political scope of the Government. Thus, the Bondevik Government has demonstrated action by reorganising or assessing the reorganisation of the NSB, Posten, Flytogen, Vegvesen Production Department, Aviation, some of the Railway Agency’s business units and, hopefully, the Production Department of the Coastal Plant. The tour has now come to the Swedish Aviation Agency. The Aviation Agency is a management company to build, own and operate airports and air navigation facilities and to provide, on a commercial basis, airport and air navigation services to air carriers and other users. As a public limited liability company, the Swedish Aviation Administration will have access to debt financing in the private loan market and there will be a greater degree of long-termity and predictability in economic planning. Shareholders are the most common and well-known company form, making it easier for the Swedish Aviation Administration to deal with credit institutions and foreign actors. Increased freedom of action allows for a greater degree of market right, both for commercial activities and for management. So political governance of the public limited liability companies. In addition to the opportunities offered by the State owned by the Aviation Administration AS for social governance, the company's activities and developments will include: governed by the purchase by the State of unprofitable airport services, the approval of air charges and the design of the concessions for each airport. The management of the Aviation Agency will be governed by the Share Act. The size is informed of the company's activities in the same way as all other state companies. The Management Board shall present matters of major social or principal importance to the General Assembly, and the General Assembly is, as we know, the Minister. For the Right, it is important to stick to the common aviation policy. This means that the Swedish Aviation Agency will continue to own the airports with profits in order to subsidise those in deficit. We have recently received some signals from the Workers' Party that indicate that some have plans to debate the solidarity of aviation policy, and in a discussion in the Evening Post, the Workers' Party's representative went so far as to establish that the Workers' Party had decided to do so. There is no basis for that in this case, I see, but it will be very interesting to see if the Workers' Party is turning around in this case. In that case, they get an explanation of how they can find out how to take money from those who have little, and give it to those who have a lot. Either they do it over the tax slip, or they do it through another distribution between the existing airports and airports, at last the same thing will come true, it's going to be a reverse Robin Hood principle. I hope that my fear is groundless.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e93	In SV we go against transforming the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. Our reason is that the airports are such an important part of the national infrastructure that they must be 100 pst. politically controlled, in the same way as the road network and the network. We have a unique airport structure in Norway, with many airports. Norway should also have that in the future, we should maintain housing and business in the districts. It had never, in my opinion, been developed such an aerodrome network if it had been the AS model and business-economic principles that had been used in the 1960s and 1970s when the airports were being developed. I think it's going to be difficult to keep this network of aerodromes when it becomes business-economy principles that are to be applied more strongly in the future. The government proposes that it be the Minister of Transport, as a general meeting, who will decide when to present important issues of social importance to the Stortinget, and that it is the Minister of Transport who will address issues of separation, privatisation of the company’s activities. This is going a long way in reducing Storting's air traffic management. SV believes that privatisation/clearance of the operations of the Aviation Agency should not be possible without submission to the Stortinget. We're talking about part of society's infrastructure, which is more than something based on security. Bringing new companies/drivers at airports will automatically be a safety issue. With regard to the rights of employees in the event of a transfer to a new company, we assume that they are given predictable and good treatment. Not least that concerns pension issues, where we expect solutions to be found in cooperation with employees’ organisations. The opening balance sheet will have a major impact on the company's economic foundation. The air carrier is facing major investments in the airfields of the coming years, not least in relation to new and more stringent safety requirements: 650 million. SEK annually on the core network up to 2020150 million. kr annually on the short-haul network until 2013 In addition, there is a lag of 1.3 billion kroner in maintenance. Then we believe that the government's proposal for equity of SEK 7.6 billion is too low. We believe that the Swedish Aviation Agency’s board has made a more accurate assessment when they propose 40 pst. of the total capital, excluding OSL, which means an increase of SEK 1.6 billion, to NOK 9.2 billion. We will go in for that during the treatment of budget revenue. S. 6 of the Financial Committee. Finally, I would like to mention the Workers' Party's proposal to investigate the possibility that those airports with profits will retain parts of it themselves. I must say that I fully agree with the surprise and concern expressed by the representative of Kjestad. The proposal surprises me because it is a violation of the principle of solidarity in our aviation policy, namely cross-subsidy. No one has supported the proposal, but if it is to be adopted, it will mean either increased government expenditure or reduced investment at non-profit airports. That's the case with most of our airports; only 3-4 airports are going with profits. I hope that the Workers' Party will delete the proposal after this attempt. If not, I think we are moving towards a larger, principled debate on the operation of the airport network in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e121	The air carrier shall be transformed into a State limited liability company with effect from 1 January 2003. State ownership of the new company shall be managed by the Ministry of Transport. The transformation of the Aviation Agency will provide the company with a clearer financial responsibility and greater freedom of action. At the same time, the Aviation Agency will be freer to raise loans and coordinate its activities with the subsidiary Oslo Airport AS. The Christian People's Party believes that this will contribute to a more efficient aviation facility. This could result in lower air charges and better services. This is important for the users of these services. Together with the removal of the air passenger charge and the Government’s proposal in the 2003 State Budget, which means a sharp increase in the State contribution to regional airports, the transformation will strengthen Norwegian aviation. The proposals entail the necessary legislative changes and budgetary changes in connection with their transformation. The organisation of the Aviation Agency as a State limited liability company does not mean any change in the social role of the company, and it has been important for the Christian People's Party. The air carrier shall facilitate safe and efficient aviation, provide services in the area of aviation and operate other activities building on its principal activities. The basic activities of the Swedish Aviation Agency will continue to be the planning, investment and operation of 45 State-owned airports in Norway. In addition, the Aviation Agency shall provide air navigation services for civil and military aviation. The subsidiary of the airline, Oslo Airport AS, shall remain as its own limited liability company, fully owned by the Aviation Agency. The Ministry of Transport assumes that substantial divisions or divisions from the new company cannot be carried out without the matter being brought before the Minister of Transport, who is the general meeting of the company. In addition to the possibilities available to the State as owner and general meeting of social governance, the activities and developments of the Swedish Aviation Agency will also be governed by the State-purchasing scheme for business-unprofitable airport services. In addition, the State has the ability to govern through the approval of the air charges and through the design of the concession for each individual airport. A total of 250 million has been proposed for 2003. kr for the purchase by the State of economically unprofitable airport services at the regional airports of the Swedish Aviation Agency. This is an increase of about 150 million. kr in relation to the 2002 budget. It is in the state purchase of business-economic unprofitable services that we direct the offer to the districts. Tenders for air routes will not be affected by the transformation of the Aviation Agency into a State limited liability company. For 2003, we use approx. 400 million. kr for the purchase by the State of air route services, based on contract contracts concluded. In connection with the conversion of the Aviation Agency, no changes will be made to the existing organisation of the Aviation Agency. The Government proposes that the fares of the Swedish Aviation Agency should be approved by the authorities but will consider allowing the Swedish Aviation Agency to adapt the charges to the market, in accordance with the current main principles, when deemed appropriate. Greater flexibility in the setting of air charges will help improve the development opportunities of each aerodrome and help to strengthen competition with private and foreign airlines. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party also wonders that the Workers' Party will go away from the principle of solidarity in how to manage the profits from the airports that have profits. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party still wants that money to be managed by the Swedish Aviation Agency and used for the benefit of the aviation network as a whole. As for the reference of the representative Tor-Arne Stroem to the Christian People's Party as a «passive» player in this matter, I would say that, after all, it is better to be a passive partner than to be on the reserve bench. Finally, I would like to say to the Progress Party: there was some clarification in the post of the representative of Kenneth Svendsen, who kept the main post here, in terms of return claims in relation to taking dividends. With regard to the return requirement, I must say that I think it is extremely strange that the Progress Party will not demand a return in the Aviation Agency. As far as I understood the representative Kenneth Svendsen, they will, but they were not interested in taking dividends. In this way, it may make sense to lower air charges. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that aviation should contribute to good travel offers at the lowest possible price for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e151	The organization of the Aviation Agency has been discussed in Stortinget several times before. Until the beginning of this ageing period, there have been several associations to be management companies. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party, as for 2002, the four parties agreed to convert the Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. The centre party disagrees with this change in connection form and will vote against the vote later this evening. A few years ago, the Air Safety Authority was separated from the Aviation Agency and the new Air Safety Authority took over all the oversight tasks. The tasks remaining in the Aviation Agency are the planning and development of aviation infrastructure and the provision of services to airlines and other users. In other words, there are important societal tasks at the Swedish Aviation Agency. The Central Party believes that it is today's organisation with the Aviation Agency as a management company that will best ensure the national objectives for the aviation sector. When the Aviation Agency is to be converted into a limited liability company, as the majority of the shareholders will, the Government has largely entrusted the Board of Directors and the company’s lease of seniority. There is reason to believe that the board of directors of the limited liability company will place greater emphasis on economic conditions to a greater extent than at present. The central party does not believe that economic conditions should not be stressed, but if we are to maintain the structure of the aviation sector in general, e.g.: socio-economic conditions also count heavily. This particular emphasis was given to the development of the short-distance network. The route network together with the main route network would bind the country together and reduce the journey time on the long distances. Both for industry and for residents in different parts of the country, it was important to reduce distance constraints. This is no less important today, because it must be a clear national objective that aviation will continue to play this role in the future. The central party therefore believes that when the bulk of the population carries out the reorganisation, it must be ensured that the Stortinget is informed about the operations of the Aviation Agency. As the Centre Party sees it, there must be a requirement that essential matters and matters relating to the possible separation of basic services and the whole or partial privatisation should be submitted to the Stortinget. Some of the company must not be able to sell without the Stortinget handling the case. I also see it as of course that annual § 10 plans should form the basis for the messages to be processed in Stortinget every other year. Both for the mains network and for the short-haul network there is a great need for annual loopings. This applies, for example: various security measures and remedial actions to ensure rational operation. New and stronger security requirements can lead to large investments over the years to come. This will be in addition to the requirements of today's legislation. It is necessary for the Aviation Agency to be able to finance the necessary actions. Together with the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party points out in its comments that, when converted to AS, the Aviation Agency should have a higher equity than proposed by the Government. Higher equity will enable the Swedish Aviation Agency to take better care of the tasks it is charged with and to ensure investment and operation at all airports. In recent years, operating costs in the Aviation Agency have grown annually to 4-6 pst. However, the Swedish Aviation Agency has introduced a real growth rate of approx. 2 pst. per 1 % years until 2020 and then 1 pst. until 2050. This must indicate that the Aviation Agency believes it is possible to reduce operating costs. However, it is not clear whether the Aviation Administration believes it is possible to reduce operating costs without compromising the supply of passengers. I argued that the Government would provide a briefing on this in the revised budget for 2003. The Central Party also argued that, in the context of the State budget, the volume of air services to be purchased over the State budget is assessed every year. Finally, I would like to make a mistake in the settings on page 3, first column. In its comments from the members of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, there has been a mistake in both the first and second sections in relation to the year. It should not be 2002 but 2001 in both sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e172	The President has taken note of the corrections made to the statement made by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e175	We are now dealing with the transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. I don't think we would have had the "chicken fields" scattered around the coast if we had transformed the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company, as proposed by the majority of the committee. I want to join the minority's proposal. That this has to be discussed by the Storting, I agree, but I don't think transformation into AS is any advantage for the people or for the interests of those we're going to take care of in this room. I don't think it's going to be cheaper for the travelers and for those who live around the country to fly to Oslo – by the way, you have to fly about to Fornebu to get to Tromsø when you live in Brønnøysund, as strange as it can be heard, but that's the reality of the day for people living around this country. I do not believe that transforming into a limited liability company will be the solution to these problems. We're here to take care of the interests of most people, but we don't do that by putting money at the disposal, because there's only money that should be the determining factor in where the airports should be. I'm not on the Transport Committee, but I have no problem joining the minority's proposals. As I said, I don't think we can solve the problems by transforming the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. I must remind the assembly that when I suggested from this pulpit that we have a free ferry to all those living in the districts, we did not get it – the particular majority in this room. One of the reasons given by the Ministry of Transport was that people would then start to travel more. You ever heard of that? People would start using the ferries and start traveling more – it would be nice to be on! But it wasn't like that. The same applies to the conversion of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. People stay at home, they don't start traveling anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e185	The transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company fully owned by the State will give the Swedish Aviation Agency a clearer financial responsibility and greater freedom of action. It will provide a basis for more efficient operation of aerodromes and associated infrastructure. Thus, through this Decision, we are facilitating better and more reasonable services for airlines and air passengers, while maintaining the high safety requirements. The form of a limited liability company will not impair the State's ability to manage the company's important social responsibility. Government and enlargement will continue to be governed by decisions of major importance to society. Aviation is now about to resume after a break due only partially to the terrorist acts of 11 September last year. The government has focused on ensuring a good framework for aviation, because it is necessary for people and businesses in a long-range and scattered populated country like ours. Together with, among others: the removal of the air passenger charge and the Government’s proposals in the 2003 State Budget on a significant increase in the State contribution to regional airports will strengthen Norwegian aviation, in particular in the districts. The Government’s proposal for the level of the Aviation Agency’s equity is related to the technique chosen for gross management of assets and liabilities relating to the aerodrome network. If it had been chosen to carry this ‘net’, equity as a percentage of total capital would have appeared to be much stronger. Looking at the ‘net balance sheet’, which is likely to be assessed by the future lender, the equity of the Aviation Agency excluding Oslo Airport Gardermoen is close to 45 pst. of the total capital. The facility will also allow for a significant increase in the investment framework compared to the level of the last few years. In addition, a minority of the Committee would like to retain parts of the turnover and profits of the parent flights serving money. I would like to stress that the transformation into a limited liability company is particularly important for these airports, because the Aviation Agency is given greater freedom to make itself profitable investments. Of course, I am always open to looking at new ideas and economic instruments, but I would like to stress that the Government and the Government parties have not in any way abandoned the solidarity principle that the profitable airports contribute to the maintenance of the rest of the airport network, not least for the sake of districts. In addition, the proposed increase in the purchase of services by the State at regional airports facilitates the take-off of the regular airfields which may allow for increased investment by not having to subsidise the regional network in the same way as before. Many of the other issues raised by the Committee include: related to dividends and the consideration of employees are issues that need to be further pursued in the future. I have noticed these and other recordings, and will stress the importance for employees, airlines and air passengers of the fact that the Storting is now making the necessary decisions about future organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e203	It's not long since the government parties in this room wanted to shut down three regional airports. I want to remind you of that. It was, of course, for economic reasons. My question to the Council of State is: doesn't the Council of State see any problems with the transformation into an AS? I could also imagine that the council says a little bit about its perception of the regional airport network, when, as we see it, you give away more political governance. As at least I see it, one will become dependent on perhaps even stronger economic governance, and the social will then be gone in this context. Then I'm afraid it will go beyond the districts and regional airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e210	Now we're not going to start the debate again about going down aerodromes. I just want to remind you that there have been several more assessments of that aspect than just laying down specific airports. It was also seen in relation to a better development for the region around it. While such assessments may need to be made at regular intervals, it will continue to be the case that the organisation of the Aviation Agency as a limited liability company will not entail a change in its social role. The aviation industry will be as important in the future as it is today, compared to just having this infrastructure around the country. We're a country that needs a lot of airports. We also want to add up to that in the future. As far as the regional network is concerned, for 2003, we have already invested a larger amount for the purchase of services on this network, precisely because we see that it has an impact on different parts of the country that we are maintaining this, and because we want to have an offer to people around the country. Consequently, the organisation of the Aviation Agency is of no importance in relation to its social role. On the contrary, by reorganizing the way we do now, we give the Aviation Agency the freedom to make continuous adjustments that would otherwise have to go through a cumbersome bureaucratic system. I think that will improve the situation both for airlines and for passengers around the country. So I think this is a very good solution, and the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to control the activities of the Aviation Administration at large.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e219	It was the last thing that worried me a little bit in this debate – that Stortinget would have ample opportunity to come back to this matter. Rich opportunity to come back to the matter usually means during the budgetary procedure, perhaps at Plaza a late night. When you need 120 million. kr, it is considered that it is opportune to re-apply a charge on passengers – a charge that passengers have had to pay over decades to build up these airports. I also heard that the minister said that she wanted better and more reasonable prices for airlines and passengers. What does that really mean? I'd like the minister to say a little bit about it, because that could mean so much. This may include, inter alia: This means that you want to use the efficiency to which you add up to lower the user fee. If that were the case, I would have been very happy about it. But since we are alone on our proposal, the government parties do not intend to go in for it. Then we have also mentioned this with that we want the users into the board. Among other things, we have some users travelling as passengers. Very often, there are people who travel in business-related activities, and they can then be associated with larger organisations, such as small and medium-sized enterprises. NHO. We have the airlines, which are also a user group. In setting up a government, we have to take into account that these groups have to be represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e228	I would like to invite all parties to join in avoiding late night-time meetings at the Plaza Hotel, or wherever it may be, leading to a policy that is not good for businesses like the Aviation Agency AS. I'll make mine to try to avoid such evenings. There will be an opportunity for the Stortinget to return to its operations in connection with the ownership messages that will be provided at regular intervals. If there are measures that the Aviation Agency wants to implement, which are of such a nature that it should be dealt with by the Stortinget, it will, of course, be submitted to the Stortinget. Then it's quite right that the representative Svendsen is talking about: when it comes to purchasing services, it comes in the annual budgets. It is possible to adjust both the volume, quality and prices of what is offered on the regional network by allowing the state to enter and purchase services. I imagine a lot of possibilities. So it's up to us, government and greatness, to make sure that we have a good and long-term policy vis-à-vis the Aviation Agency to avoid short-term budget solutions – preferably in a late evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e237	There has been some talk in this debate about who is allowed to play on the track, and who has to sit on the reserve bench. To that I would say: thank me to a hungry player on the reserve bench who wants to go out on the field and participate, rather than a passive right back that twirls around and is lifesaving the ball. The focus on safety after 11 September last year has been increasing. In the United States there has been a long debate on this. Attempts have been made to compare safety levels at European aerodromes with those at US level. Most of those who have worked on this find that the safety level at European airports has been higher than the safety level at US airports. That is why the Americans are turning to their policies. In the past, there have been private security personnel at US airports. Now these state employees, not in an AS, but in U.S. management companies, because this is the best way to ensure long-term security in relation to the employees, which are essential to security. Both the Christian People's Party and the Council of State have today tried to convince us that there will be no difference if we turn the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. It's almost like you want to ask, why do you do that? But does the Council of State not see that it is a paradox when the Americans, who have been the most liberal, are going in the opposite direction and that we are now going to make the Swedish Aviation Agency a limited liability company?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e246	It is possible that I have not been enough on the football field to take the picture completely with me to sit on the spare bench. I haven't been sitting on the spare bench. At least I know we're on the track. I am very pleased that we are there, and I am very pleased that the Aviation Agency is now to be converted into an AS, that there is a flexibility that allows those who travel around our country to experience better services than they would have done in a rigid system that lacked that flexibility. As far as safety is concerned, I have to say, we take it seriously, and we want to take it seriously. There will be increasingly more stringent requirements in relation to safety, both internationally and nationally. It's a big challenge for Norway itself, with as many airports as we have. But then I have to ask, what can we achieve when it comes to a good level of security, when you think about security, which you've been busy with after 11 September last year? I don't really think that depends on whether the person who works in the system is a government employee and has some kind of label that you're a government employee or not. Safety depends on the action taken to improve it. It can be made completely independent of the form of organisation or whatever it may be. We have to take our own measures, and we are going to do so in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e253	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e258	I travel a lot by plane. A lot of people do in the Working Party. Nevertheless, we will vote against a limited liability company this evening. We believe that important social interests are only taken into account with the current organisational model. But anyway, when the plural decides that it should be an AS, we allow ourselves to interfere in what it should be like. Then I come to the long announced proposal about which the Labour Party is standing alone, and which we still think is a brilliant proposal. It's a powerful irritation where a penny of money and where one is close to spending money at the airports in this country. You work hard to own AS, so you can keep the money yourself, or you can pay the government a little bit. We want to prevent a complete confusion of the whole solidarity system. What we're proposing is not to weaken the solidarity system, but to strengthen it by giving a small valve to those who are making money and are not allowed to keep anything themselves. We point out that it could have been done that way, and ask the government to come back with an assessment that the airports that have a surplus can retain 1-3 pst. of turnover, followed by 10-20 pst. of the excess. It could give some airports, for example: Stavanger and Bergen, maybe 20-25 to 50-55 million. kr in the year, before sending the rest – between 150 and 200 million. kr – to the public register. So we would make them stop working to own AS, because that's what threatens the system. I am pleased that the Council of State says that it is open to new proposals. I actually mean that it's a handshake and a compromise that could preserve the system of solidarity. Earlier today, we are talking about a so-called incentive scheme for public transport, where municipalities and big cities that are good at spending money on public transport are going to get a break from the state. Then it's clear that a man appreciates not only those who want to, but we also appreciate those who can. There may be some who may get a disproportionate amount of money, some who have good advice and don't spend money, and then some who have bad advice and spend a lot of money, and they appreciate us. So we don't always appreciate will, but also ability, and this is a way to appreciate ability. And we actually think that the places it's in would tend to get more when we're also open to spend more public money and have higher capital. So it hangs on to the handles. I hope we come back to this as an alternative to the AS advances in the future, because they will come. I hereby accept, on behalf of the Labour Party, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e269	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e273	The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, has presented the proposal put forward by the Labour Party. It must not be dangerous to have it assessed. You have to have the opportunity to look at things. So I want to say to the representatives of Kjæstad, Geir-Ketil Hansen and Jan Sahl that you don't have to worry because you want to get an assessment of things. That's got to be allowed. There have been many decisions that have been made with a pen stroke in the so-called late night hours, in which both the Air Force are transformed into AS and, I had almost said, more. So that concern is groundless. We're in favour of a system of solidarity, we need it. But we also need to have opportunities to look at how this will work. So to Jan Sahl, who talked about that he likes to be a passive co-player instead of sitting on the reserve bench. The suggestions that have come both from the Workers' Party and others that you feel comfortable by being a passive co-player in the Government, correct. Then I think it's better to sit on the bench and maybe have the opportunity to get into another layer. So I feel very comfortable being on the spare bench, because then we have the opportunity to train and maybe get into another team. I think it's important to get a grip on things and get an assessment of them, and then you'll see what the development is for the Swedish Aviation Agency. Obviously, there may be concerns on both sides, but let's first look at the proposals and get them properly evaluated. I am also very pleased that the Council of State is prepared to look at the things that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e282	In other words, there's a question about which coach you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e285	I am very pleased with the decision we are making tonight, and that the Government will have full impact on the proposal when it comes to the transformation of the Aviation Agency. But I let myself come with a heart attack. I never stop wondering about the Norwegian Labour Party and the distance between life and words and learning that they can accomplish, among other things. in this matter. The working party had among others. two concerns about the model we presented, which is now being endorsed. It was about solidarity, and it was about political governance. What's going on? When it comes to the joint financing of the Aviation Agency, we have been a few about the model, but now the Labour Party is presenting a proposal where Ausdal Starrfelt states in clear text that this could add some airports 25-55 million. kr per. years, and regardless of the level of income, this will result in some others becoming injured. There is no solidarity in practice. So the same party, plus a couple of others, says that a little bit of the problem of transformation is that we lack political governance. The point of transformation is to give greater freedom, but we're going to hold tight the thumbs and have clear political guidance signal to the Aviation Agency. But then it performs the same Labour Party at the representative Ström to come in here and say that in the budget-inner. S. No 6 shall propose a significant increase in the capital of the Aviation Agency. Does the Labour Party believe that by adding a lot of extra capital to what the Government has put up to do in order to keep this under control, will an increase in political governance? Should a multiple have a multiple with the Progress Party for this without any control signal, or should a multiple have a multiple with SV and provide other clear detail-based formulations? I really like to see this, but there's a distance between life and learning -- the fact that once the Aviation Agency has become AS, we can only raise a lot of money. There's not a gambler full of money for a fried aviation plant we want. In our view, we're going to have an aviation agency to do the tasks we've seen them do, and we need to have a balance between the capital supply and the tasks they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e296	It has reflected a touching concern for the Christian People's Party in this debate on the part of the opposition. I thank you for the fact that there are people who care for us, who probably think we're out on the wrong roads. Now let me just say from this pulpit that we are very well on the track. So to an important question here: we're being accused of this being a first step on the way to privatizing. The Christian People's Party will not privatize the Swedish Aviation Agency – this is about a state AS. But who's taking the first step on the way to believing that you're going to privatize? Well, the Norwegian Workers' Party, which is now helping you to start taking off the profits for your own use. That's the first step towards privatisation. I would like to say to the representative Tor Arne Stroem, who has the same starting point as me, we live in Nordland, Bodø Airport is our base airport, Tromsø is a little further north: these airports unfortunately do not have any surplus, but others are going to get off the surplus and make Bodø and Tromsø even bigger minus airports. Is there a fair way to distribute the funds? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e308	Some words to the Workers' Party's proposal to investigate whether airports should be able to retain part of the profits. The representative, Stroem, says that it has to be allowed to solve these kinds of questions, and we would like to say that it's basically a harmless proposal, in that way you're just asking for something to be solved. But what surprises me is, first of all, that it comes from the Workers' Party. I just have to admit that I had not been surprised if the proposal had come from the Advancement Party or the Right, but I am surprised that it comes from the Workers' Party, and about the signal it gives about what policy you see in the future. For this reason, the key principle under which Norwegian aviation has been governed in the case of airports is the principle of solidarity. And if you hit your legs under it, you can get a development where there's going to be big problems operating the airport network we have today, because it's built on the principle that the profits from some airports have agreed to finance the rest of the network. That such a proposal comes from the Workers' Party, and that it gives such a signal, surprises me, and it disappoints me. So to Petter Løvik, who is critical that we suggest a higher equity. That proposal is based on the calculations in the case, the estimates in relation to cost-increase forecasts, which we believe are too low, and will, as a consequence, have significantly more effective – unreasonable efficiency requirements – which could go beyond, among other things. the aeroplane structure and the offer to travellers. It's one moment. The second is the major investment tasks facing the Swedish Aviation Agency. So the proposal is based on the considerations in the matter, and there we have come to a different conclusion than what the Government and Government fraction of the Committee on Transport have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e315	We had a pretty tidy budget debate, so let's take the time to discuss something that we don't agree on, even if it can make us last 10 to 15 minutes longer than night. I have been in this house for many years both on the bench and on the track, and it has its advantages and disadvantages, I can say. But being on the bench when one gets to influence the outcome, I think I'm quite fun, and we've actually got to do that today. Right here, we're not going to be able to do it in principle or with our supplementary proposal. It's a strange situation to be in that Right claims that we're not solidarity. So we're asking for an assessment of what this system might have been like. If other parties were as open as the Council of State was, we could have turned it into a transmission proposal, but if it's as low as I feel it's from the parties in the hall, I don't see any point in it. So it's an assumption that this surplus division -- the fact that they're going to keep a little bit of their own, a small percentage, at these low cost airports -- should not go beyond the investment and operation of the submerged airports. We believe – as it has been shown in many areas, and where it is supported by a lot of people from all the political parties – that getting a little bit of a break to stand on leads to a tendency for more money, that is to say we believe in more ignition. We know that a higher level of equity gives a stronger backbone to borrowing more, and we also say that we cannot have a roof over public purchases. It has to be seen in conjunction with the other elements, and that means that in a transitional period until we think enough money in this new system can increase the government's permissions. And then a question to the right. In my county, where the Sun is the airport, it's most just Right-Presidents, unfortunately – it's a blue state. In the board of the Sun, both the spokesmen of Stavanger, Sandnes and Sola, who are right-wing people, are in addition to the chairman of the county. They're working for Sola Airport to become Sola Airport AS. That is the threat to the system of solidarity. I wonder how Petter Løvik will meet them when they ask for it and he'll try to say what I haven't been able to explain to the same Right People, that the solidarity system must stand firm without any modification. We are actually proposing a compromise here – a political compromise, I see it – but we believe this can be life law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e324	I was encouraged to take the floor when I overheard Løvik's ideological presentation in the debate on the Aviation Administration, and was a little impressed by how he could put it into such a big context as the dividing lines of politics. Now it was previously talked about late evening hours, and that a lot of strange things could happen then. Now it's no more than ten over seven, so it's maybe a little early in the evening that you can be so dizzy in the mind, but I noticed at least what was said. Let me then carefully – very carefully – try to tell you a little about the thinking behind. Because this is not an idea that has emerged from nothing. We have seen practical experience with this. An important incentive, both in private and public terms, for stimulating cooperation between employees and management has been to find profit-sharing schemes, or bonus schemes and other systems, that have gone on a productivity growth. And that is where it lies: creating a basis for productivity growth. You invite that, and it's definitely not the reverse Robin Hood principle. It probably has nothing to do with Robin Hood at all. What had been a point, however, was that we had received an incentive in the industry, among the various airports, so that the efficiency, optimisation of the use of resources, became much better, and that it was stimulated, and not that it should appear as a threat to the small airports. On the contrary, this should be just as stimulating, just as interesting, as exciting for the small airports that are currently receiving grants, as it is for the big ones, who have the possibility of a profit. Otherwise, I am prepared at any time for a solid and rewarding ideological debate, but I think I would find a different theme than the Aviation Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e338	The last two articles make me have to take the word. The representative Ausdal Starrfelt asks if I can meet local Right-People in the Sola area and say what I said here, and the answer is yes. I've been saying exactly the same thing at the Sola conference earlier this year. We're going to look at new ways to pull the private initiative into aerodrome construction and congestion at airports, but I think it's very dangerous to attack this through the common financing model we have today. I think we need to have arrangements on the outside of this, where we're bringing in such an initiative. My warning, therefore, goes without saying that starting to extract resources from what is today a common system. Because we know that, as it has been said quite correctly before, this will lead to one of two things: either that the state has to bring in more money, or that it goes beyond other airports. New incentive schemes – yes, but keep these for all parts outside the solidarity funding system for airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e349	I have heard in this debate a little about being on the track and being on the exchange bench. My opinion is that the parties that have spoken are neither on the track nor on the exchange bench. And when you say what the rapporteurs in the Sola region want, there should be no shock. I have been to Kirkenes, and the rapporteur wants more money for Kirkenes airport. I've been to Bodø, and that's where you want money to go to Bodø airport. There's something we have to deal with all the time, without running after them for that reason. Then I thought I heard in Bjørgulf Froyn's posts that he was evaluating dynamic effects in relation to how to make the airports work. It has to be something completely new from that edge. I would have wanted you to instead of talking about what to do with these 45-55 million. kr going back to the airports, had spent more time discussing how to get this as effective as possible, how to get these 55 million. NOK 100 million. kr, or what the profit once becomes, back to the passengers, so that the passenger fee will be lower and it will be cheaper to fly in that country. I had hoped that the commitment to that kind of thinking would have been greater here in the hall, instead of distributing money to aerodromes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e358	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 887]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e374	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and 5 minutes to the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e383	The work on this suspension has taken some time because the Committee felt that its responsibility was not only to extend the State loan to BaneTele and refinancing and privatisation of the company; the Committee's work on BaneTele's work on GSM-R and on railway safety has also been concentrated. I will first focus on the safety issue and communication between train crew and train management in an emergency. The Committee considered this matter in the context of Innst. S. No 274 for 2001-2002, cf. St. pp. No 66 for 2001-2002, on the selection of the Trasé Corridor for the Ringeriks Railway etc., and in that context, a majority of the Committee expressed the following: ‘The majority request that the Ministry of Transport give high priority to this work, so that no further exemptions need to be applied for.The majority want the expansion of GSM-R to maximise synergies for the overall offer of telecommunications in Norway. The majority assumes that the Ministry of Transport will return to this matter in the 2003 State Budget.» This did not do the department, and in St.prp. No 1 reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Transport will return to Stortinget with its own case on the development of GSM-R.’ This was not satisfactory for the majority of the committee. Short time after presentation of St.prp. No 1 the Government took a decision to extend and operate GSM-R in response to tenders, at the same time as the Railway Agency was required to ensure that BaneTele returned its concession for GSM-R to the Post and Telecommunications Authority. The concern in the committee was not primarily a matter of BaneTele's future as a company. The concern was safety. Today's radio communication system is a system that has expired and options for purchasing spare parts include: no longer present. We've been informed that this is already the reality of six connections. In addition, through the EU Transport Directive, Norway has committed itself to the regulation of a common standard for rail transport. As a result of this Directive, 32 countries, including Norway, have ratified a train running agreement requiring GSM-R. This simply means that there are no other sustainable alternatives to the development of a new safety system other than GSM-R. What was difficult to take a final position on in the Committee was the initial derogations from the provisions of the Regulations on communication granted by the Railway Authority and the new exemptions subsequently granted by the Authority following an application from the Railway Agency. A majority of the Committee has therefore chosen to take note of the last exemption decision of supervision, which extends the general derogation until 1 October 2004, with the exception of the Bodø-Rognan section, which continues to benefit from a derogation until 1 January 2004. It is at the same time the majority's view, and here the majority are in line with the supervision, that the GSM-R system complies with the requirements of an emergency communication system. The majority of the Committee therefore regard GSM-R as a priority solution for train communication systems in Norway. It is in this perspective that the majority proposes that the Government should ensure that a GSM-R system is put in place, which can meet the requirements of the Railway Surveillance Authority by 1 January 2005. The derogation also applies here Bodø-Rognan, where the system is to be in place from 1 January 2004. The operation of trains on the railway is vulnerable. GSM-R could be the rootstock of future train management systems. It can replace today's protective and signalling systems and thus contribute to safer and more efficient operation. It will be essential that the railway works keep focus on GSM-R and that temporary or remedial measures do not help to delay or require resources to such an extent that they can delay the deployment of GSM-R. So far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so The background for the establishment of BaneTele was to allow an increase in the value of the existing fibre networks connected to the railway infrastructure. This was elaborated in St. Prp. No 80 for 2000-2001. The network consisted in the establishment of the company 4 200 km. In 2001, BaneTele purchased the bankruptcy estate after Enitel and could thus increase its available fibre capacity to approximately 12 000 km. This was the basis for the comments of the majority of the Committee on the extension of GSM-R in order to maximise synergies for the overall offer of telecommunications in Norway. Given the need for BaneTele to be a good and competitive tool, it is important that the company obtains the necessary framework conditions. This applies both to the capital structure and to the possible construction of alliances. Here I also refer to the majority's proposal that the King be authorised to convert the State loan, which is part of the case, into a loan of responsibility. For the majority, it is not crucial who is the general meeting of the company. The majority, however, assumes that the new industrial solutions that can emerge for the company should be presented to the Stortinget as its own case. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the duration of the State loan to BaneTele is extended until 30 June 2003. There is an impatient majority behind this position. I said in the beginning that it has taken time. Some time has also been associated with the fact that there was a different majority in the committee than the final majority. If the original majority had remained, there would also be a proposal for a different decision. What has been important, and as I think I have the whole committee behind me to say something about, is that we have nothing to give in the matter of railway safety. We have nothing to give in to the question of railway safety! Safety on the railways is not an academic debate. It's dealing with the reality we're in, and doing something about it. We see too many examples of how we're looking for adequate safety in rail transport. But at one point you divide. I believe that for the majority who are promoting the proposal today, it is important that work on security cannot make small things religious. We're moving something for a while. We're talking about a few months, where we're prolonging the possibility of implementing the measures that are necessary to ensure that security is optimal. We do that in a sense that at the same time it will be important that we have a government with us, and that we have with us in a department that sees the significance of this in the same way. I think we would all have a problem if this matter, which is of such importance, had meant that the Storting had to instruct the Government to action, where the Government would also be a less constructive co-player. We emphasize that BaneTele's competence is passed on. It is also stated in the proposal for a decision. The competence developed in BaneTele is of importance for the implementation of the entire expansion of GSM-R and is important for the industrial synergy of the fibre capacity now available to BaneTele to be as high as we expect and that it could play a role in the future development and deployment of networks in Norway. With this, I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e425	The government had two purposes when this matter was put forward. The one was getting a clean-up in the ownership of BaneTele. The other was as fast and as best as possible to meet the requirements for safety on trains that are provided by the Railway Authority. In this, the Government and Government Party also wanted a clarification of the responsibilities for communication between the train crew and the train path. Today, BaneTele is owned by the Railway Agency. The railway works are also responsible for train safety. BaneTele has a large potential as a commercial operator in the telecommunications market and is at the same time a very up-to-date candidate for the development of train radio systems with GSM-R, which the representative Froyn had in mind. With the Railway Agency as owner, we have placed a difficult double role on the Railway Agency, as they are also responsible for train safety. Therefore, the Government is going in to transfer BaneTele to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and to light up the expansion of GSM-R, i.e. the train radio system, on offer. Of course, the responsibility for train safety remains at the Railway Station. It's important to underline. I'm very happy that we get a pass on these points in Stortinget tonight. When it comes to safety, we fully stress that we should follow the requirements of the Railway Authority, even before the GSM-R network is in place. I am very pleased with what the representative Frönn said in the previous article. I feel that we now have a broad alliance in Stortinget, and that the Government is fully supported by the way that both the fastest and the surest will give us the best possible train safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e436	As many have said, this has been a long case in which we, among other things. had hearings. This is really two things. One is about security and the development of GSM-R. After following in the way of the Workers' Party to deal with this, it must be said that the wording up like a lion and down like a skin trap fits very well. Here you've done a lot. I perceived half of the post to Bjørgov Froyn as a long explanation of previous positions. Fryn was very concerned not to instruct the Government in this. It's a little bit amazing. It must be that the Workers' Party was very short-sighted, then, since they went out with a press release and contacted the press that the goal was to instruct the Government. When you thought about it over the night, you gave up that line. But in fact, what the Workers' Party has done in this case is that they have gone away from security. So they have gone away from the derogation that the Railway Authority has granted, by three months, which they were not willing to do until the day before. In addition, they have gone away from the need to build GSM-R on the Bodø-Rognan route. Then it was like, well, there's enough GSM on that distance. So a week ago, there wasn't enough GSM here, so there was a safety risk. Because it's like when two trains with the GSM system go against each other and you have to pick up the phone, as I discovered several times when I called, and it says "network busy" when you don't have the other one. It was also one of the reasons for the Workers' Party for approx. four days ago, but that justification is no longer available. So this is where we're dealing with security. I don't know if that was the goal, that one should be allowed to be on the track, or what it was, if they were tired of sitting on the exchange bench. They're on the road now, and what they've provided is worse security. It's a shame, but that's the way it is. That is why we are opposed to the alternative proposals both under I and II. As far as this is concerned with the BaneTele company, I have to say that the majority – also here with the Workers' Party at the head – does not take much care of a state limited liability company that has a unique opportunity to be built up to become a powerful competitor of Telenor. So this is going to cancel out, even if you know it's 22 pst. equity in the company, and it should have been 40 p.m., although we know that by converting this loan into equity, which for the Workers' Party's part a week ago was a'must', we can get equity up – by converting the government loan we get equity up to 33 p.m. But this is where you've jumped off. It is well that the saying that I mentioned instead, up like a lion and down like a skin trap, fits very well in the way the Workers' Party behaves. Not enough that it describes the way they have done this, but I have to say that I think it was a very unprofessional way of dealing with so important things. Here you had the opportunity to join and secure a state enterprise, a state capital, which you could of course sell at a later date, and then you hit the company the way you do. I think it's important to get there. I would also like to point out that the Progress Party has its own comment that I think it is amazing that the government parties do not participate in: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party will stress that if a situation arises in which a dilution or sale is updated as a result of an industrial solution with a private company, this must be properly presented to the Stortinget as their own case.These members will stress that such an industrial solution must contribute to the creation of a powerful Norwegian competitor to Telenor.’ But it's clear that it's not a wish from either the Center Party or anyone else that you have to do it. I would like to take up the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e465	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e468	For us, this matter is primarily about railway safety. It's about having such a good safety that we'll never again experience what we experienced in the Asta accident. It's about having a security that's full on top of, and preferably a little bit better, than the one you have in the rest of Europe. For us, there is no doubt that what you have chosen as a security system, GSM-R, provides the best communication. That's what we're going to build, and that's what we've been working for. There is no goal for SV to instruct the Government in this matter. For us, it is only an objective to ensure the best possible safety on the railway, and that the infrastructure we build in that context remains on state hands. I am pleased that the committee can stand together about as much as we do in this matter. We agree that the GSM-R network should be state-owned. It's important to us. We also agree to maintain the competence of BaneTele. But for SV, it is still important to say that there are things that separate us from the majority. We would not accept the postponement on which it resulted in another derogation when the GSM-R network was to be completed. Nor could we accept that the Bodø–Rognan route should deal with solutions other than GSM-R. That being said, I have to say that I sometimes wonder in this room. It's only been a few hours since the Progress Party was supposed to put down the Nordlandsbahn. Then it goes half a day, and then it's imperative to build GSM-R on the route. Although I am with the Progress Party in the fact that it is important to build GSM-R on that route, my reason is that the Nordlandsbane will pass. What the Advancement Party is justifying, I'm a little bit more uncertain about in the light of the fact that they're going to put down the whole soup pad. I think we're building the GSM-R network, it's an infrastructure decision that we're going to think about as a useful and important thing that would deserve far more attention than what it's got in the hall today and in the media. The network being built has a lot of capacity, and it will also be interesting for use for things other than railway communications. I am therefore pleased that this infrastructure will remain at the State hands of the Railway Agency, and hope that we will have good cooperation throughout the Committee on this matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e481	A few words about an important matter. The Christian People's Party wishes the State administration of ownership of BaneTele AS to be transferred from the Railway Agency to the Ministry of Industry and Trade with effect from 1 January 2003. We believe it is necessary to clarify the distinction between BaneTele's more commercial telecommunications activities and the railway station's need for safety communications. The social and safety aspects of train communications will be addressed by the Railway Agency through agreements with BaneTele or other telecommunications operators. Furthermore, changes in the ownership of the company shall be submitted to the State Railway Authority before a final decision is taken in the case. The transfer could form the basis for selling the State’s shares in BaneTele AS and bringing private owners into the company. At the same time, the government is in favour of refinancing the government loan granted by BaneTele when the company was set up as soon as possible in the private capital market. BaneTele currently has significant broadband capacity in addition to the necessary rail needs. It is therefore appropriate to obtain other owners in BaneTele. In July 2001, BaneTele received a loan of EUR 209 million from the State. kr with a maturity of one year. This government loan has been extended twice. The Government wants the loan to be refinanced by the end of the year, but allows for the government loan to be extended until 30 June 2003 if necessary. The Christian People's Party believes that the Railway Agency should quickly implement measures that comply with the Railway Authority's provisions on communication between train crew and train management in an emergency. This is also not a major political disagreement, fortunately. In order to ensure the safety of non-train radio routes, it is considered that specific measures should be implemented as a matter of urgency. The current measures will be to implement commercial solutions for radio communications and mobile telephony. Such measures must comply with the Railway Surveillance Authority’s requirements for train communication pending GSM-R. The Christian People's Party agrees that the Government will come back to Stortinget with a case on the development of GSM-R when there are clarifications related to organisation and funding. A prerequisite is that quality assurance of the plans for the development of GSM-R must be carried out before the project can be considered as eligible. After some trialsome period, the Committee, after reasonably thorough discussions, reached a majority in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e502	I'd like to start by saying that I'm quite satisfied with the setting that the Committee has put forward in the case of BaneTele AS. The central party has been busy ensuring that BaneTele AS is still state owned and not privatised, as the Government suggested. I am therefore pleased that the entire Committee decides that BaneTele AS should not be sold now and that, if new industrial solutions are involved, this should be submitted to the Stortinget. The centre party is also satisfied that an assembly committee believes that the ownership of the railway works' infrastructure will remain in the railway works. So BaneTele is not supposed to be privatized, as the government has created. But the government is given the power, as requested, to extend the duration of the government loan and also to make the government loan a responsible loan. The centre party has expressed many times the priority of safety on the railway side. We are therefore insolent when it is constantly drawn out before secure train communication is developed for all sections of the route. When we are informed that the time limit for the development of the communication system has been extended, the tolmode is taken on a serious test. In the hearings of the Committee, the Council of State has stated that it is the GSM-R system that will be the future communication system. This system is, as the Committee has been informed, selected by several other countries and is thus an international system. In particular, the Centre Party would now set an exact, short time limit for the time for the GSM-R system to be introduced on all routes. But we see that there may be certain uncertain moments for what is practically possible when it owes to the rate of expansion. In addition, we also believe that it is important to get the most out of economic and time synergies by coordinating the development of other network structures and operators. We have therefore chosen not to be in and set exact deadlines for when GSM-R is to be deployed everywhere. But I would like to stress that the Railway Authority must meet its requirements before the time limits set. The centre party argued that the GSM-R extension started as quickly as possible. In order for development to be speeded up, the Government must ensure that the competence built up in BaneTele AS, which is necessary to ensure optimum progress, is maintained. Although the multiples in the setting have not been fixed in time for GSM-R to be built on all routes, I would point out that this does not mean that this expansion is not urgent. The Central Party expects the Council of State to see to it that the work is done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e519	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is a majority who sees the need to clear up the roles between operating railway activities and engaging in commercial telecommunications. I want more people to travel by train, both because trains are environmentally friendly and because it is a safe way to travel. Such a debate as the one we have here today could in isolation lead people to believe that it is particularly dangerous to travel by train in Norway. It's not like that. I would therefore like to begin by stressing that the railway is one of our safest means of transport. The risk of accidents in train traffic is significantly lower than in most other modes of transport, especially when compared to road traffic. But good security is not the same as good enough security. On the way, we experience too many people killed and badly injured every year. There we also see that we cannot rest in relation to road safety work. There are many different measures that should be assessed at all times and a wide range of measures that should be implemented. That's the same thing on the railway. Although we do not have as many people as die and are seriously injured in railway accidents this year, we still need to take this seriously and constantly consider measures. Like the Committee, I am concerned about making train traffic even safer. Good communication solutions between driver and train manager are absolutely central to the safe operation of train traffic. Therefore, train communication needs to be improved on those train sections that are currently not equipped with train radio systems. GSM-R shall be the future communication system between train drivers and train drivers along the Norwegian network, as it will be in other European countries. GSM-R is a large project, which is currently estimated at NOK 1.5 billion. The final cost will be clarified once the ongoing quality assurance of the project has been implemented and the bidding round has been completed. Quality assurance could be ready in February/March next year. I want the expansion to take place as soon as possible. I will immediately after this landfill treatment take up with the Railway Agency how we can have the maximum speed of work. I am also concerned that such extensive development must be carried out in the most cost-effective way possible. It can best be ensured by the submission of tenders for the extension project. I am therefore pleased that through this treatment, Stortingen supports such a project and that the development can be carried out within a realistic time frame. In such a scheme I also want to take action on the most vulnerable sections of the train that do not currently have adequate communication solutions. This is the case in the first row along the Nordlandsbanen and in particular the Bodø–Rognan route. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Railway Agency, has already sent out preliminary requests to relevant telecommunications companies to clarify possible solutions and what this will cost. In this context, it is important to choose solutions that can be used for the development of GSM-R, so that the necessary appropriations for interim measures can also be used in this context. As stated in the proposal, I propose to return to Stortinget with proposals on how the GSM-R should be implemented and prioritised along the Norwegian network and how the development can be financed. I would also like to underline what should be obvious, but I would nevertheless like to remind you again: No trains will be sent out on any route if the State Railway Authority does not find this appropriate, either before or after the GSM-R has been completed. It is essential for the role of the Railway Authority to be able to handle the law professionally, independently of both the Ministry of Transport and the Stortinget. I am also pleased with the Committee's agreement to the Government's proposal to change the management of the ownership of BaneTele. For railway safety too, a clearer distinction is necessary between BaneTele's more commercial activities in telecommunications and the railway network's need for safety communications. Right now, this is the most important thing in relation to BaneTele. With regard to the issue of capital injection through new industrial owners, I would like to return to the Stortinget with this in line with the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e544	I would like to thank the Government Party, and, to some extent, others, for the cooperation in this process. It has been a demanding exercise, in which it has our doubts and our faith. I hope and believe that the majority will arrive at a good solution, but it's basically only the future that can show if this is a good solution. The working party is also impatient. The working party will have the best train safety system in place as soon as possible. It's pretty broad that the best current system is the GSM-R system. It can be connected to trains in neighbouring countries, but the existing system is old-fashioned, with limited possibilities. to obtain spare parts. Spending money on such outsourced systems is bad money usage. We can live with other systems a little more if the Air Safety Authority gives its approval, but only as long as it is absolutely necessary, because we are impatient. We are also impatient to exploit the fibre BaneTele AS has the right to use, in a good way, in the commercial sector. Of both these considerations, we need to secure the company and the important competence they have in BaneTele's project organisation. It is absolutely necessary to ensure optimal progress. I have basically just a simple question. We're impatient. Can we trust that the Council of States is as impatient as we are? Can we trust that we don't get a six-month postponement, as we did in time between the revised national budget and now? We don't have time to lose until we get the best possible system of Norwegian train sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e555	I can assure you that I am also impatient to have a good system in place when it comes to railway safety. The safety of the railway is ensured in many areas. GSM-R and the communication system are one of a wide range of actions implemented and there will be a constant need to look at a complete safety analysis of the state of the railway system. That is the task of the Railway Authority. It would also be – in relation to the question of postponement – completely wrong if I were to stand here and say that in the next round we have to come back and apply for postponement because we do not have the power to build out in time. Our intention is that we should go out immediately and start building up GSM-R and at the same time live with the fact that the railway authorities can impose obligations in relation to the safety measures that are at all times the most important. My intention, my goal, and what we're putting up the whole work after, is to meet the demands of supervision at all times. Then it is that when we go out and look at what is available in the market, we are going to make strong demands in relation to the rate of expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e564	I will not take out this matter any longer than necessary. I just want to be allowed to agree with the representative of the Workers' Party, Ausdal Starrfelt; we are impatient about this expansion. The attitude shows that some of us are even a little bit more impatient than what the majority is. I just want the Council of State finally to make sure that this impatience is shared by the Ministry, and that we are now not getting any more cases to the committee that involve a further postponement of this. Today we operate with a train radio so old that you don't get to buy spare parts for it. It's imperative that we get better train communication. GSM-R is the preferred technology. And here comes the restlessness: we have a common desire that the safety of the train – it is good – be even better, and it will only be when we have a communication system in place that we can trust in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e571	When I can already say today that the railway is an environmentally friendly and safe means of transport, it is of course with even greater joy in the future I hope I can say that it is the most environmentally friendly means of transport and the most definitely safe means of transport. It will give us a win-win solution in relation to both environment and safety that I am very eager to achieve. I'm impatient with the development of security. It's clear that it's a solid task to get this done, both physically and financially, so it's going to be a challenge to get it done. But we are eager to do this – I can assure the representative of Sørensen that this government is very concerned. Then I would say that we have distances in the country where there are virtually no communication solutions. Then every improvement is a great improvement. There's a big difference between nothing and having an offer. We're working all the time to improve communication solutions based on the situation today, and we're now going deep into the construction of the GSM-R right after tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e578	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Those who are now given the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e583	Not for me to extend the debate, but let me say the following, because it is so important to get things – the important things – clarified: For the majority and for the Labour Party in particular, we have taken BaneTele's future seriously. We haven't been in a tactical game that puts BaneTele's future in jeopardy. And I say that especially to the representative Svendsen, who had different reasoning on our behalf for why we had changed some of the positions that we had in a previous discussion in the committee. In my main post I said the following: ‘In view of the need for BaneTele to be a good and competitive tool, it is important that the company obtains the necessary framework conditions. This applies to both capital structure and possible alliance construction.’;» We stand for that, and we want to be clear about that. And to the Progress Party especially in this context. We do not agree with what was the formulated conclusion, but I have recorded in the course of the debate that we have had around BaneTele, that in this area we actually have several parallel views – and this is not a Christmas presage. It was earlier today that more and more verbal Christmas presangers were being distributed. But I would nevertheless like to say that I look forward to the cooperation that we will be able to have later on. That's the concrete security we're going to take with us. The technology is on our side. It's not that GSM is an alternative, GSM is just an alternative if there are developers who are willing to set up base stations that provide a coverage of a completely different standard than what we have today, and I don't know about these yet. That's why I'm going to take from that supervision, and then I'm going to stress that the technology is on our side, and per. date there is no alternative other than GSM-R. But it's not just a theoretically interesting situation, what's important with GSM-R, is that it could form the rootstock of a future train management system that can replace today's protection and signalling systems. It gives you a better railway, and we're for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 889]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e617	I must first say that it is a pleasure that two toll stations are closed. I would have been even more satisfied if we had put down all three toll stations and then kept laying down the rest around the country. The fact that these two are now being laid down is only because it turns out, as in many other cases, that the revenue barely covers the personnel costs of having people sitting and charging the toll. I will be allowed to submit the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the closure of all three toll stations and for the relevant road installations to be financed from the State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e627	The representative Nistad has taken up the proposal he himself referred to. No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 890]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e645	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e661	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e677	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e684	Some time back, it was decided in this Chamber that we should get a new order from the Courts of First Instance. In this context it was decided that Nordfjord Sorenschrifbete in Nordfjordeid would be merged with Sunnfjord Sorenschrifbete in Förde. The new court shall be called the Fjordane District Court and shall be localized to the Fjord. This decision was taken in the light of the fact that Stortinget gave its support to the proposal. The Structural Committee of the gentlemen's and mayors was divided into the views of the court structure of Sogn and Fjordane. However, the merger decision was taken in line with the recommendation of the majority of the Structural Committee. The proposal under consideration is promoted by the Progress Party and is a wish to reverse the merger decision. I allow myself to express that the Christian People's Party was in a minority when this matter was dealt with last. We didn't want to merge, but we were down in this room. We're dealing with the fact that the Storting has made a decision that's not yet out of date. It is still waiting to be implemented in practice. The invitation to rematch could have been encouraging, and it could have been interesting – if one wanted to open up a new debate on the many changes in the court structure around the country – to jump on the proposal put forward by the Progress Party here. However, we resist that temptation, because we believe that once a decision is taken in the Grand Duchy, it should be given the opportunity to be put to work, to be able to work before an evaluation is carried out. In this setting, it is to the seventh and last all parties except the Advance Party that are in favour of us maintaining the decision that has been taken. SV has its own comment, and I'm sure I won't reveal a big secret if I say that for the Christian People's Party, we could have been involved in much of what SV says in his remark. But we find it natural, as it comes with a letter from the Minister of Justice, that we relate to the contents of that letter. But the description that SV put into this setting fits well with much of what the Christian People's Party said in the debate when we dealt with the court reform here in Stortinget. I do not feel the need to address the enquiries we have received, in addition to saying that the parties like this Document No. The 8 proposal concerns, has wanted to have consultations in the Committee. We in the committee, however, felt that the hearings had been held in connection with the reform of the courts, and we cannot see that strong new arguments have emerged. It's part of the old arguments that's rewritten, and there's opinions that we don't see change violently what the Storting had as a premise when it made its decision. Another factor – the main element of why we are reluctant to go deeper into the argument in relation to the proposal – is that when we re-approve of reality, we would probably open up a lot of requests from the whole country, where we would have a fight against the decision that was taken last time and that was lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e708	The size was decided during the treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001 a significant reduction in the number of first instance courts. This is a reform that is right when looking at efficiency in court administration as a whole. Although a reform is initially a positive contribution to efficiency improvement, one should not ignore the fact that details are not always 100 pst. optimal. Such a non-optimal situation is what could occur at the closure of Nordfjord District Court. There is nothing to suggest that one will achieve a more rational division and operation by putting down this right of way, even if the sorenprinter chooses to move with. Once the port of Nordfjord has now been recognised as an EEA port, this could have an impact on the need for the Court of Justice. The report 4/2000 from Western Research states: ‘The police have already taken this on board by adding an additional position to Måløy, and more tasks will be transferred to the judicial system. This applies both to civil and criminal matters and to the fact that there will be a greater impetus for notary public services.’ When this is combined with the clear distribution of the territory as such would have in order to maintain the jurisdiction, it appears to the Progress Party as against its intention to bring it down. Having that expertise and service unit within reach gives great ring-effects and distributes far beyond the fact that the court has local expertise. The business community has access to a better dispute resolution. This is very important if a person wants to contribute to a developing business. Having the district courts within reach is also economically neutral, and clearly beneficial to the whole region. As far as the proximity of the court is concerned, one sees that the geography of Sogn and Fjordane has a lower degree of centralisation than proposed. Distances for all parties involved will increase sharply. Although this is a small matter, there have been no allegations that the quality of the district court has not been satisfactory. When the availability, development and distances of the area indicate that Nordfjord District Court should remain as its own jurisdiction, the Progress Party will not place a decisive emphasis on the principle that in a major reorganisation one cannot look at individual areas. As the representative of Marthinsen pointed out, there was a complete crack in the Structural Committee when it came to the future of Nordfjord. So, the structural selection did not see the obvious benefit of this closure either. On this basis, I would like to address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e732	The representative, André Kukkestad, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e735	SV requested at the time Stortinget treated St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001 to maintain more courts than was decided. We thought that smaller local courts are a more appropriate tool for conflict resolution, because the role of judges is often best exercised by people who know the local environment. In civil matters, a court of law relating to the local environment will be more able to reconcile the parties. In criminal cases, local courts will more fully comply with an old principle that the perpetrator is to be judged by ‘his peers’. We therefore believe that the closeness of the courts to the population will help to strengthen the legitimacy of the courts. In addition, small courts will be able to cooperate better with the local prosecution authority and thus have good functionality in dealing with criminal cases, as the proposers stress for Nordfjord sorenschriftrebbete. SV agrees with the proposers that increased travel burden is a negative consequence of centralisation and that this is a significant argument. Closeness to citizens was e.g. also a main argument to oppose the extensive centralisation of the information on property adopted in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 13 for 2001-2002, which was otherwise the proceeds of the Advance Party. SV notes that a majority of the Stortinget has adopted a comprehensive reorganisation of the Courts of First Instance, which are now in the process of being implemented. Rematching Nordfjord Sorenschriftrebete will not be correct since the reason for not putting down this sorenschriftrebete is also present for other sorenschriftrebete which was closed by the bulk of the population, and also by the Progress Party. Reversing individual decisions could lead to further discussions of several partial decisions. We believe that this is so unfortunate and unfair that we cannot support the proposal. I think it is very special that the Progress Party first adopts a large-scale centralisation, and then let individual members of its own party present proposals that go in the opposite direction. Thus, you obviously have plans to have your back free on the day that it would show that your own decision might not be so smart.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e748	When this reform was up for handling, the Christian People's Party was among those who voiced against the closure of the Nordfjord Sorenschrivarembete. It was a wise and correct position, and it's still right today. Until now, the municipalities of Nordfjord have done a good job of producing new documents, which would be good arguments for reforming them. Personally, I would like this to be understandable enough for the Justice Committee, which does not appear to have been the case. I respect the recommendation and the conclusion of the Committee. What I would also like to mention in this case is that in Nordfjord there was a broad cross-political effort over time to take up this matter again, and it was with great wonder that several people noticed that a party suddenly evicted from this collaboration to produce a Document No. Eight proposals. I will not comment on it further, but I register it with wonder, in the same way that it is registered in Nordfjord with a certain wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e757	As Trond Helleland has asked for the word after we started with the three-minute inserts, he does not get more than 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e760	That's enough. I'll be very short. I just want to stress what Finn Kristian Marthinsen said in his post, and I want to add that this is a matter of Nordfjord, but it could be a matter of a lot of other sorrenty letters. Since I joined the Justice Committee, I have had quite a number of enquiries – I think that concerns most of the members of the Committee – about various sorencies, various first instance courts, some of which were supposed to be changed in relation to the reform adopted by the Stortinget. It could be a matter of at least a dozen courts of which there have been enquiries, and if we had opened one change before the reform had come into force too fully, we would have ended up in a real mess. That's why I think it's very wise and correct of Stortingen now to reject this Document No. The 8-proposal, and I'm assuming it also sends a signal to others that we're not taking a rematch in this area right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e769	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e785	When the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided to raise the issue of possible ethnic monitoring, it was because the case came from the Sameting – not from some private individual in the Sami environment, but from a unanimous merger. It may be difficult to imagine that such monitoring has happened to a group in this country, but we also need to be aware that there were many things that were difficult to imagine before the Lund Commission presented its position on this activity in Norway. There have been some indications at the end of the 1970s and 1980s that were so in their form that I think it might have drawn interest in the Sami environment. In a military police educational booklet, for example: From that time on, KGB has been shown to be behind the merger, minority groups are set up against the major communities, and the KGB is behind this. There was a long series of such references at the time. It has also in the recent evidence of the Sami environment and what has happened. Last, we could see this in the NRK programme ‘Fears of the Frontierless’, which was sent in September of this year, which re-examines the fact that institutions and organisations in the Sami environment must have been monitored. And these are very central institutions, like the Nordic Sami Institute, the NRK Sámi Rádio, the Sami newspapers, etc. The majority of the Committee has not found any evidence of any kind or other confirmation that monitoring has been carried out against the Sami environment on an ethnic basis. We have also not found such strong indications that this has occurred, that we believe it is right to carry out an investigation now. But we have also not received sufficient evidence of the opposite. We haven't seen a clarification, an investigation, an explanation of this relationship that concludes that it hasn't happened. The Lund Commission was put down to clear the air, to get away a workbush that lay here in society and rubbed, and the community agreed that we had to get this on the table now, we had to get it done once and for all. And if it is that there is still something left that hasn't fully come up on the table, and when the Sameting points out the turmoil that exists about this question, it is in our opinion both right and necessary to do what is possible to light this in the best possible way, so that there can also be peace around this question. Therefore, the majority of the committee, which unfortunately is a minority here in the Chamber, has asked the Stortinge to ask the Committee on the Information, Surveillance and Security Services, the EOS Committee, the Stortinge’s own body to examine whether there is a basis for examining the information obtained on the monitoring of co-workers on an ethnic basis, i.e. not to initiate an investigation; what we have asked is that this sample go in and see if there is any basis for carrying out an investigation. If this sample, which certainly enjoys a great deal of respect and has great integrity in society, finds that, for example, no investigation is necessary, that this is clarified, I am sure that the Sami environment will be satisfied with it. And the opposite: if this sample finds out that these are things that are not clear, we need a review of it, I'm sure the rest of the Norwegian environment says it's okay, let's get this going, let's get it over with once and for all. So I'm a little surprised if the Committee's minority, a majority here in the Chamber, maintains its position, that we should not make that assessment until we possibly put this matter aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e802	When we from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party do not find ourselves able to end up with what are the comments and proposals of the majority in this matter, it has to do with more matters. Firstly, in the most extensive investigation of the secret services that this country has ever had, namely by the so-called Lund Commission, there was nothing to support the claims for ethnic monitoring made in this case. It is also the case that a former control and constitution committee here in the house addressed directly to the head of the former investigation commission, Ketil Lund, who confirmed to the then control and founding committee that the Commission in its work did not have any evidence to suggest this. I guess no one has seriously tried to cast doubt on the work of the Lund Commission. It was also underlined by the representative of the Engretsen as an important work. We base our position on the findings and conclusions reached by the Lund Commission on this matter. It may not be such that every time claims appear in the press for political surveillance or other unsubstantiated claims, a review shall be required. Or in another way: there must be no inflation in research, in neither this nor other areas. It will weaken the investigation institute, and it will also weaken the authority of the Stortinge. Right now, the representative says that they do not have access to documents that require or confirm such an assumption in relation to the claims that have been made. There's a diminutive circumstance in it all. But by travelling this way, we're feeding the speculations and claims, which I don't think we should. That is why I would urge the representatives of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progressive Party, also of the Left, to vote against the committee's proposal for a decision, because that majority in the committee is a majority with the double vote of the chairman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e813	First of all, I would like to say to the representatives of the Right and also to the representative, Martin Engeset, that I wonder if you really understand what this workshop can mean in relation to the confidence of the common people in the big society. According to the NRK programme ‘Fear of the Frontierless’, the newspaper Nordlys wrote that there was an ethnic workshop there. We just have to take note of that. They wrote: ‘It is essential that the transparency we have had about police surveillance in post-war Norway does not stop at the border with Sameland.’ It has served democracy to the credit that the unpleasant truths about the illegal monitoring and registration of legal political activities have come for one day. But the settlement of history is not completed until all the chapters are completed. When the Sameting believes that not all the chapters have been completed, SV believes it is important to ensure that there is no unopened chapter in this story, namely the chapter on the monitoring of cohabitation on an ethnic basis. That is why, together with the Labour Party, we agree on the proposal to ask the EOS Committee to consider whether there is a basis for examining information on the monitoring of co-operation on an ethnic basis. I really think this is a rather modest proposal. There are three important reasons for this. Firstly, who has repeatedly asked for an investigation? And that is not an examination, as the rapporteur did, for which we are going in for today. Who is it that has asked for an investigation to be carried out? Yes, it's the Sameting. So it is the Sami people who are asking the National Assembly to confirm or disclaim that there has been an ethnic monitoring. I wonder that neither the Minister of Justice nor the Christian People's Party – the Right and the Advancement Party I exempt in this context – suggests that it is not anyone who asks for this. I ask, what view do they have of the Sametinget, and what weight does it have that comes from there? Secondly, the importance of the information provided in the folders in which it has been provided. And what does that say? Well, central representatives of the Sami people have been monitored. So it's documented. They have worked with and have represented the infrastructure of the Sami people. I've been told, here I have a list of the organisations and institutions that have been used for this goal, i.e. to monitor some co-workers. It's a pretty impressive and systematic list. Let's take some examples of who has been monitored, and who has emerged in the media, it's also documented: Aslak Nils Sara, company chief, captain and security cleared by the Defense, but POT stamped him as the gill leader and exposed him to surveillance. In civil life, he was head of the Nordic Sami Institute in Kautokeino, an institute designated as the base for extreme groups. Other key leaders such as Odd Mathis Quit and even former joint president Ole Henrik Magga have also been monitored. And one cannot rule out that they have been monitored as leaders of the Sami people. So, as the rapporteur also explained, there were quite strong theories about things that were going on right at the time we were talking about. These include: Theories that extremists would break down the country, and that the KGB was behind, as the case-rapporteur also said. Thirdly, if there's been a surveillance, let's get it over with. Let's get through what may have been a hidden part of the research process. It could be the last and important part of a reconciliation process. As the rapporteur said, we do not have documents that confirm or require that there has been an ethnic monitoring. What we have, at least what I have, is evidence that some central people have been monitored. I'm afraid that if this is not cancelled or confirmed, there will still be a workshop in the Norwegian community. That's why I think it's a pity that not the majority – and especially the Christian People's Party, who have shown a propensity in Sami questions – are with us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e840	The President does not know whether it is particularly wise to attach specific names to a major debate of this nature, but assumes that the representative Valle had cleared it in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e843	I very much agree with the excellent representative of Right Engeset that when claims or rumors arise in newspapers, TV etc., of course, this should not lead to us starting inspections in cabins and weather, and that we get an inflation in investigations – quite agreeing with that! It is also the case that, in this case, the majority of the Committee recommends not to initiate an investigation but to obtain a qualified assessment as to whether there is a basis for an investigation. I'm amazed that you reject it. Otherwise, we are in the situation – as the committee chairman also says here – that it is the Sameting that does not feel that this matter has been closed, clarified, clarified and explained in a good enough way. So the whole thing – together's own thing – turns to the Storting and says, "We're not satisfied with this, it's things we don't have enough clarification on, let's see what this is like." And then the Norwegian big thing answers that we don't. We are not even willing to assess whether there is a basis for a review – to obtain a qualified assessment as to whether there is a possibility of a review here. I think it's an unwise act of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e852	I agree with the president that if I had just referred to people here, it would have been wrong for me. But this is information that has also appeared in the media. Among other things, these persons are named in the Dagbladet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e857	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e865	Then we go to voting on case No. 1 to 10 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e872	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 7, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposals No. 2 and 8-10, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 3 and 11-14, by Heidi Sørensen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 4, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 6, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Senterpartitetsproposal No. 15, from Sigrun Eng on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. It is first voted on the framework-independent minority proposals. The President shall do so largely in all the votes that he refers to who are the proposers. And if I don't say that someone has supported the proposal, only the parties that proposers belong to are voting in favour. I hope that this will be clear and that it will reduce the need for explanations of vote. Proposals Nos. 11–14, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to enter into negotiations with the airlines to reduce flight prices by 30 pst. on the network from the point of view of the network 1 January 2004.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Rv 7 over Hardangervida is closed for winter traffic’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘Rv 4 Oslo-Mjøsbrua, rv 5 Førde-Florø, rv 9 Kristiansund-Hukliggrend, rv 13 Jøsendal-Voss, rv 15 Eid-Målø, rv 35 Hønefoss-Hokksund, rv 36 Seljord-Eidanger, rv 92 Karasjok-Karigasniemi, rv 150 Hovin – Tjernsmyr, Stor Ringweg is not upgraded to tribal roads’. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘A new entry 74 Oslo Sporveier is created on the Cape. 1330.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e928	Proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «All public transport contracts are offered as net contracts.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The new pedigree trasé rv 7 shall follow rv 7 throughout the Hønefoss-Bergen road.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose as soon as possible that non-profit institutions which rely on interconnector equipment in order to carry out rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health are exempted from paying annual concession fees under the Telecom Act. The loss of revenue is covered by the equivalent efficiency of postal and telecommunications supervision.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e955	Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The freight terminal and the Railway shall be developed as a common OPS project.2. The cost of the planning work of this project shall be covered within the The Central Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e976	Proposals Nos. 6 and 15, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘1. E18, Parsel Sekelsten-Krosby, may be opened for extension by allowing Eastfold toll companies to borrow in order to advance the development.2. The country’s share will be as foreseen.3. The development shall not be at the expense of other road projects.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to ensure that rv 50 is given a level playing field with rv 7 in relation to night closing and column running until the evaluation of the state of Hardangervidda has ended in 2006. The size encourages the ministry to see if the rewards can be used in a more cost-effective way even for the winter season.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e1006	We voted wrong! We should vote in favour of proposal No. 15 and against proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e1013	Then we have to split the proposals. We vote again on the proposals No. 6 and 15. Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e1029	Proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e1043	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Revised National Budget for 2003 with a plan for the rapid introduction of remote control of the Northern Railway north of Grong.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e1058	Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget for 2005 is requested to provide for a State financing mechanism for large-scale road projects.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e1073	Frame area 18 is now being taken up for voting. There are three different proposals. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e2627	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e4119	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7142	The Progress Party has notified to support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7166	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7182	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The air traffic control shall have as management objective the use of any surplus to lower the user-related air passenger charges.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7206	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The downfall asks the Government to come back with an assessment that those airports that have a profit will retain 1-3 pst. of the turnover of the Revised National Budget for 2003.2. The decision asks the Government to come back with an assessment of the maintenance of 10-20 pst for those airports that have a profit. of the surplus in addition to this in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2003.3. It is a prerequisite that the profit-sharing shall not affect the investment and operation of the aerodromes in deficit.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7246	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are going against the position. That's what the Coastal Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7261	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Programme for the Development of Roads, Tunnels and Bridges in Sub-programmes 1 to 6 of the Ryfylke Package is carried out without tolls, by ordinary State budget appropriations.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7293	Petter Løvik – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7296	The debate has shown that there is a need for two clarifications. When it comes to point 1, there has been a little discussion about which department is going to take over ownership. What lies in this from the point of view of the majority is that it is the Ministry of Transport to take over the ownership of the Flytoget AS, but the Government is clearly open to assess continuously whether it can be relevant with other departments. To II. The debate has made it clear that the intentions of the majority with this decision have been fulfilled, that the Flytrain will be given priority over the sections mentioned. That is why II is unnecessary, and we are asking for this to be translated into a transmission proposal. So we do not need a specific decision on that, with what has been said in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7303	The President must then only ask if it is agreed with all those behind the position - well, then we can delete II. Kenneth Svendsen for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7308	We announced in the debate that we would go against point 1 here, but with the clarification made by Løvik, we will vote in favour of point 1 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7313	Not surprising. During the debate, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt has made a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘There are no changes to the ownership of the Flytrain AS.’ Alternatively, this proposal and I will be voted on by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7358	The vote on II shall be deleted. Amended by Stortingen meeting 11.12., see page 988
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7367	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Socialist Left Party, No. 3, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7408	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State loan to BaneTele AS of EUR 209 million. kronor is converted into equity.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7457	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘1. It is a requirement that a GSM-R network along the routes in Norway be operational by 1 October 2004. Route sections not currently equipped with train radio systems shall be prioritised.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘2. For the section Bodø-Rognan GSM-R must be in place before 1 January 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7486	In the course of the debate, Mr Nistad made a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the closure of all three toll stations and for the relevant road installations to be financed from the State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7571	The progress party has announced that they will go against the setting of these chapters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7861	During the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain Nordfjord District as its own jurisdiction.’ The vote will be taken alternately between this proposal and that of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7883	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7890	The correct votes will then be 87 votes in favour of the vote and 14 votes in favour of the Advance Party proposal. Thus the setting has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09-2.ana.ud2202e7901	This is a vote by the majority of the committee, which is probably a minority in the Chamber. Here we have to organize it so that the setting is one voting theme. The second vote theme will be that the vote will be appended to the Minutes. As far as the President understands, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will vote in favour.
