ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e57	The representative of Inge Wohnning will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e60	On behalf of the representative, Mr Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to put forward amendments to Law No. 22 June 1962. 8 on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e79	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e95	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 307]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e111	This legislative amendment is a consequence of the decision of the EEA Committee on 12 May 2000 to include Council Directive 1999/70/EC on temporary inclusion. The amendment is about introducing a new Section 55 G of the Work Environment Act that the employer should inform employees about job vacancies in the company. In other words, this will ensure that all participants are provided with information about the available options. The government goes beyond the requirement of the directive, which only requires this to be temporarily added, and I think there is reason to give the Government credit for it. I would like to make it clear that this change to the law does not imply the right to free settings, but a purely information obligation for employers. The background for this is to avoid discrimination against temporary additions compared to permanent additions. In addition, legislative changes will set a framework for the uncritical use of temporary additions. In addition, through the information obligation now being implemented, part-time will have a greater opportunity to expand their job breaks. And that's positive. The Committee welcomes the legislative changes and joins in the changes proposed. I note that the Ministry defines the concept of ‘all workers’ as also for those on care leave, and I just want to ask the Council of State to confirm that this also applies to those who are sick/long-term sick, that they are also covered by the same scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e126	Of course, those who are sick and long-term sick but still employed on the holding are also included in the concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 308]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e147	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 308]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e163	The President will draw attention to the fact that the rapporteur for the matter has a seat in Laging, so that Hans Kristian Hogsnes is given the floor instead of him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e166	There is broad consensus in the Municipal Committee on the important features of the proposals for changes to the Labour Dispute Act and the Payroll Act in Ot.prp. No 46. The proposed changes are based on the nomination of the Committee for the Tariff Negotiation System, which is best known as the Stack Selection, in NOU 2001:14 ‘Our most beautiful adventure...?’ from April last year. The negotiating arrangements and framework for wage negotiations in the municipal, state and private sectors have been further analysed. The proposal for legislative changes involves changes to the Labour Dispute Act Chapter 8 on Arbitration. This will increase the efficiency of the mediation process. Among the proposals, I would like to mention that the Labour Dispute Act is being amended so that the mediator can only propose that mediation proposals for several trades can be considered as a whole if the mediation opportunities are exhausted and the collective bargaining parties do not oppose such coupling. Furthermore, the Riksmeklingsmann will be given the opportunity to harmonise the conciliation deadlines in the municipal and state sectors. The Riksmeklingsmann may also delegate the right to prohibit the work of another arbitrator. Furthermore, the current practice of setting time limits to hold a vote on mediation proposals, for which the time limit may be set by the Riksmeklingsmann in consultation with the parties, is legalised. Lawmaking is also due to the obligation to alert workers after mediation has been rejected in an out-of-court vote. There may also be reason to mention the proposed amendments to the Wage and Occupational Pensions Act involving an extension of the number of members of the National Labour Code from seven to nine to resolve disputes under the Labour Code. This gives room for the LO and NHO to be permanently represented and will ensure continuity and a broad level of knowledge in the denominator. On the other hand, no proposals are being made, as recommended by a majority in the Committee on Stacks, on the right of the mediator to oblige the organisations to send mediation proposals for dissociation among members. The reason for this is the strong opposition to the proposal in the consultation round. Nor are any proposals for the obligation of peace made by the parties in the event of disagreements to be implemented by the parties themselves – this being because the parties base such a duty of peace in the event of disagreements. The Committee also points out that the independence of labour law is an indisputable principle, both under national and international law, and agrees with the Ministry to amend Section 10 of the Labour Code so that the President and Vice-President of the Labour Court become officials. More like a curiosity, I can also mention that a joint committee asks the Government to make proposals to replace the President and Vice President with the President and Vice-Chairman in these laws and in any other law where the titles of the President and Vice-Chairman are still used. With the exception of a proposal for a minor amendment to the legislative text, there is a unanimous municipal committee which advises Odelstinget to adopt the amendments to the Law of 5 May 1927 No. 1 on work disputes, etc. I also allow myself to promote the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party on a change in Section 35 paragraph. the third sentence of 7 shall be replaced by the following: ‘If the result of the vote is not available within the time limit, the arbitration proposal shall be deemed to have been adopted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e190	Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e193	The Labour Party's proposal for changes to the Labour Dispute Law and the Labour Law is a major concern of the Government. Therefore, I only need one post as short as possible to comment on one item mentioned under 3.4 in the setting, and that is associated with a proposal to change Section 35 paragraph. 7 third sentence. I would like to point out here that the Ministry proposes to introduce a rule of law that a mediation proposal should be considered as agreed if the time limit for replying is not met. This goes against the Labour Party, not on a purely principleal basis, but because we can't see that this question is well-founded and well-founded. So we're going to vote against that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e200	Although there is a reasonably extensive preparatory work done in this matter, both through a separate NOU and a separate proposition from the Government, it all turns out in a rather lean proposal material from the Government. But maybe it's just as well. Several of the objections and views raised by the social partners have been listened to by the Government. Thus, there has been no significant change in the government's proposals in the current legislation this time. The Progress Party broadly agrees with the assessments and proposals presented in Ot. pp.. No 46. The Progress Party understands, of course, that the social partners should have overall responsibility for collective bargaining and wage negotiations in order to reach agreement itself on any dispute in this area. I would just like to make it clear, for the sake of order, that the Progress Party will of course maintain the right to strike and, of course, that we are also in favour of full freedom of organisation in the world of work. But I would also like to take this opportunity to stress that, in the view of the Progress Party, the right to be unorganised should be as strong as the right to be organised, and that both of these important matters should be regulated. The Progress Party believes that the parties who strike or initiate lockouts themselves have a major and decisive responsibility for resolving possible conflicts in the context of working life, through negotiations and mediation, i.e. before, if necessary, forced pay. However, the Progress Party believes that no organisation should be able to require the unreserved termination of its members at an enterprise where there is a majority against strike among its employees. The Progress Party will claim that the respective business clubs and employees of an enterprise must be able to reserve themselves the right to participate in nationwide strikes if there is no majority to strike at each enterprise, and we therefore promote proposals to this effect. The Progress Party also believes that it makes sense that the Riksbroker should be able to request that the mediation proposal be rejected and that there should be a duty of peace during the voting period. We are also promoting proposals on this. In addition, the Progress Party considers that it is appropriate to assess the strike rights of special groups which have a special power position or are in a monopoly position. I would also like to add that our view is that wage negotiations should preferably take place in the individual company, and not primarily centrally. Business and non-professional wage negotiations will often be better adapted to the performance and competitiveness of the business. Local negotiations are therefore an advantage for employees by giving them an opportunity at company level to better manage their own jobs for the future. Finally, I will be able to bring up the two proposals of the Advance Party that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e217	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e220	SV is also mainly satisfied with the setting that exists, except for one proposal in which we share the views of the Workers' Party. But in the context of the case, SV, together with the Senterpartiet, has chosen to point out some issues that arise when you look at the means of fighting you have in your working life. There's something different between the Norwegian and Swedish rules, and it might seem very different. For the Swedish scheme, access to work is not limited to total or unconditional retirement. This could be done, for example, by: be time-limited, rolling strike, blocked by overtime, employment block and refusal of non-essential tasks. This question was addressed in the Stack Committee, where the majority voted for what is today's rule, while a minority wanted the Swedish model. If you got such a solution, it would strengthen the tools of labor. What we've seen is that the vast majority of strikers, especially those in the public sector, are stopped very quickly, simply because you're unable to stop the work without risking life and health. These are groups, e.g.: help nurses and other care and health professionals — who had absolutely needed some muscles to promote their interests. Because the labour struggle in these cases almost only affects third parties, the authorities very often see themselves as having to stop this right away – and in reality these groups have almost no strike weapon they can use. SV therefore believes that it would have been good to have seen more flexible forms of work struggle. It is also an international trend to be away from big, traditional strikes – where many are involved and everyone loses a lot – where you can maintain a work struggle without simultaneously hitting a third person in such a way as you do today. Therefore, SV has made a proposal to clarify this. We have not received a majority for that now, but we believe that this is something more should look at and have an interest in. In addition, SV raised the issue of whether the strike should be legalised. We have not proposed it now. It's too early. But we have announced that it is a subject that we think should be discussed in more detail and that we will come back to this in a separate proposal for the harvest. Then I will address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e235	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e238	The ‘Our most beautiful adventures...?’ was analyzing the negotiating arrangements and the framework in the municipal, state and private sectors. The 1996 Labour Law Council's proposals were evaluated and some changes were proposed. Inner. O. No 52 shows that there is broad support for the Government's proposals for follow-up. Otherwise, it would only be missing because the government has chosen to follow up on wide-skinned areas in the selection, which seemed natural. Matters relating to the social partners also require support from the same parties. The center part, like SV, thinks there's a reason to look at today's model of strike use. We have a case in Odelstinget earlier in the spring where the government intervened with forced payroll. That's when the nurse's strike was concerned. The health care providers strike as a result of the conditions they received from the state taking over of the specialist health services. A majority of the hearing authorities were critical of the use of forced pay and of the fact that the selection did not come up with proposals to change Norwegian practice. Today's model means that groups in this society have a limited strike. This applies to health professionals, police and engineers in electricity supply. The priests have disclaimed the right, but we can also refer to other groups. A minority in the Stack Selection raises the question of looking closer to the Swedish model. In our neighboring country, the struggle for employment is not limited to total job losses. Time limit, rolling strikes, blocked by overtime and addition, and refusal of non-essential work tasks are a means of escape. Perhaps the introduction of limited combat measures will increase the willingness to negotiate, and perhaps the possibility of conflicts of this kind will affect the course of negotiations, implying that the parties are initially more willing to compromise. At least such a scheme works both in Finland and in Sweden, and other countries are also assessing a change. We want such a model more detailed. Such a job loss will not affect a third party to the extent that a full job is created. It may mean fewer working days lost, and it may actually involve shorter periods of conflict. The proposal seems today to have only the support of SV and the Central Party. I still want to challenge the Council of State to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e249	As is well known, the proposals from the Odelstingsproposition are based on the NOU 2001:14 «Our most beautiful adventure...?», namely the investigation by the so-called "Stabel" committee, which has gone through the tariff negotiation system we have. My starting point is that a conflict between the employer and the employee is not the responsibility of the public authorities, nor the framework around it, nor the nature of the conflicts. The starting point is that this is a relationship between the employer and the employee and their organisations. Of course, we need a legal framework that provides for the functioning of mediation institutions and the principles that apply, but those that develop the system should be largely social partners. Therefore, this proposition is also based on the fact that the proposals put forward by the SPC in majority and minority formations, on which no follow-up was provided in the consultation round, have also not been promoted. We believe that these rules should have a relatively high level of acceptance both on the employer’s side and on the employee’s side if the authorities are to regulate or make changes to them. In this way, I think that both the posts from SV and the Central Party have affected many interesting issues, but I do not think it is the Stortinget or Government's role to address these problems. I believe that an initiative in this area should come from the parties. If they feel that today's strike system and negotiating system do not provide sufficient and appropriate means of fighting and conflict resolution, then I think it is up to them to come up with new methods. Then, as the Council of State, I will be able to follow it up to the extent that some of this has to be incorporated into the laws and regulations and into the Labour Dispute Act. But I do not think this is an area in which, at the political level in the Grand Duchy, we should be the leaders in terms of what possible methods of conflict should be. I think, as I said, that it is up to the parties to take an initiative in this. If there's a problem with today's laws and regulations, maybe it's just those who should be promoting the issue, including the government. Let me say something about the second point on which there has been a certain discussion and on which I understand that a majority in the Committee has not promoted, but as a minority in the Committee, which has a majority in the Chamber behind it, will promote, namely the Government's proposal for a time limit: if no reply has been given to the Riksmeklingsmann within the prescribed time limit, the conciliation proposal is deemed to have been adopted. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre write that they believe that the proposal is a fundamental change to the rules for voting out of vote that should not be carried out without a more thorough investigation, and that reference is made to the history of the Code of Labour on the legalisation of voting rules. It is also stated that none of the parties has requested such a change. Therefore, I would like to be allowed to make it clear that there was an overall Stack selection that was behind this proposal on the basis of a recording of the sample from Riedar Webster. Because such a change in the law was considered entirely unproblematic, the proposal was not discussed in particular in the position or in the proposition. The proposal does not in any way interfere with the right of organisations to agree on their own voting rules, but there is a practical solution to a problem that arises from the Riksmeklingsmann from time to time. I therefore believe that this proposal should be supported, because the sample that is composed of the parties is in fact the sample that has proposed it. To say something about the President, Vice President and provisions to neutralize this sexually, the Government would like to look at it. There are relatively many changes in many paragraphs to be made. We have announced that we would like to make a technical and linguistic modernisation of this legislation, which was also considered necessary by the Stable Committee. We would like to be allowed to make these changes at the same time, so that we do not have to have two rounds of legislative changes in the Grand Duchy, which are not of a political nature, but of purely linguistic and technical nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e263	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 309]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e279	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Mr Andersen, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e288	Odelstningsproposition No. 48 is essentially a follow-up of Innst. S. No 197 for 2000-2001 from last year when we dealt with the keynote on refugee and asylum policy. The Committee broadly agrees with the proposals made by the Government, but there are some different views on the arrangements and weighting of the various areas. I'll try to go through this, but will leave to the different fractions to argue for their views. Firstly, it is a question of defining ‘strong human considerations’ in the handling of foreign regulations, and that consideration may also be given to those other than those who are actually applying for a work permit. We're very happy that it's being taken into account. I think we all remember, for example. the history of a woman in the South who would like to have a health worker from Sri Lanka, where the law was such that it was impossible to take her into account, but only if this health worker had grounds for asylum. Of course he didn't, but there was really no good reason to deny him anything but that the code was too tight. This is where the Government will open up. There are probably more of us who believe that the UDI has had a greater opportunity to use discretion than they have done in many of these cases, but because they have been given strong political orders to be restrictive, I think it is absolutely right what the Government has done, namely to open up to define this in a new way to clarify the space UDI has to take such considerations into account. Then supplementary rules shall be introduced for whom refugee status must be considered. That's absolutely necessary. There is a need to provide clearer political guidance on the principles underlying the granting of asylum or residence on a humanitarian basis. In practice, the foreign authorities have all the influence on this, and it is the precedent of the decisions they have taken that have created the legal basis. The creation of the Foreign Study has reinforced this. In the setting-up of the so-called representative of the Magnificent Erna Solberg, who is now a minister of the area, she realized that the political majority who wanted this facility wanted it because it was to be avoided from the political discomfort of some of these matters and could affect both the matter and take responsibility for practice. It's still like that, and it could be interesting to hear what the minister thinks about this now, and whether she's changed her mind. In any case, in addition to what we have been dealing with now, there is a great need to provide political insight into how the matter is dealt with and whether the treatment is evolving in line with the political premises that have been made. But now it is the case that these provisions on the conditions for defining and being considered as refugees are to be laid down in a regulation, and that is positive. The majority say that this can also be incorporated into a law gradually, if you see that there is a need for it, but has not yet concluded here. One of the major important issues that needs to be addressed in this regulation concerns gender-based persecution. There have been too many ugly issues about it, where women's situation is not taken into account at all, and where the persecution itself is equally serious and equally dangerous and often initiated or at least not estimated by the authorities that are really responsible for ensuring that this does not happen. We are therefore very pleased that the Government opens up this, but is still a bit in the mood for what the Government believes when they are reluctant to give a very clear signal that this is going to happen now, and that it should be stated once and for all that this should be a principle that applies. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party, i.e. the government parties, are simply saying that the Government should ‘make it clear that gender-based persecution is a real ground for asylum’. It's hard for us to understand what that really means, so if the Council of State has a good explanation of what the difference between writing this in a regulation and making it clear, we might start to discuss what's the reality of it. I sincerely hope that it does not mean that the government has not intended to follow this up in practice. In addition, the Committee agrees that a cumulative principle should be established. One can be persecuted in many different areas without one reason or reason in itself, but the sum of all grounds can provide a basis for asylum. We are very pleased about that. So to something we're worried about from SV's side. Providing more asylum in relation to those we provide on a humanitarian basis has been a point. It was also during the processing of the asylum notification last spring. But in the form of a note, the government parties now write that they want to look at how practice develops ‘in countries that are natural to compare with’, and then I want to ask the government parties which countries they find it natural to compare with. Is it Austria, is it Denmark, is it the Netherlands – which is what we should compare with when we look at practices in the future? I just want to remind you that the High Commissioner for Refugees has warned very strongly against laying at a minimum, but wants a best practice approach instead of within Schengen and Europe. In addition, SV wants refugees to be given their status as refugees following recommendations from the High Commissioner, and not after they have come to the country. I would like to mention proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e314	In view of the tragic isolated epidemics in the immigrant communities, foreign policy has become a major focus of this process. Size has discussed a number of Document No. Eight proposals. The government has been gripping the many and current issues, offensive and gripped by developments. From the Right, we are very pleased that the Minister of Local Affairs and the Government are working both across departments and promoting matters after thorough reviews and impact assessments. As early as 14 December 2001, the Co-operation Board set up a legislative committee to assess the law on foreigners and to propose new legislation in this area. From our point of view, it has been important during the debates not to pre-empt individual decisions, but to await the conclusions and proposals of the legislative committee in a number of areas. The work on a comprehensive review of the Foreign Affairs Act is still ongoing, but the Government now sees the need to implement certain changes, as well as to focus on gender-based persecution. I will first take note of the change in Section 11. The proposal merely clarifies that this applies to those who have been granted a renewable work permit or residence permit. The Oslo police district also points out in its consultation opinion that the legislative amendment is only a clarification and does not involve any change in reality. On the right, the Ministry agrees that it would be pointless to provide that applications which are not authorised to be granted shall be entitled to charge the file, which is already suffering from a shortage of resources and large balances. It must be correct to state that applicants without a right to renewal are initially to leave the Kingdom at the end of the permit. The definition of a refugee by the Convention on Refugees is incorporated in Section 16 of the Foreign Affairs Act. The right agrees that there is a need to provide clearer political guidance on the principles underlying the granting of asylum or residence on a humanitarian basis. We therefore agree with the amendment in Section 16, which allows us to provide supplementary rules on the conditions to be considered as refugees. This is not least because Norway has received criticism from the Commissioner for the relatively low proportion of asylum seekers granted asylum compared to the proportion who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. The rise in the threshold between these two forms of granting requires a review. I therefore meet with the Ministry's efforts to publish a research project that will just assess the border between asylum and residence permits on a humanitarian basis. As regards whether the conditions for obtaining asylum in the future should be made in the form of regulations or laws, we believe it is right to await the results of the sample that reviews the law on foreigners as a whole. Until this clarification is completed, we share the Government's view that the principles are reflected in regulations. The opposition believes that gender-based persecution is not a real ground for asylum today. We do not fully agree with this, and I would like to point out that we have guidelines that state that persecution on the basis of sex can fall under the Refugee Convention. The Ministry of Justice stated on a principle basis that persecution on grounds of sex and sexual orientation should form the basis for asylum in guidelines of 13 January 1998. The guidelines provide that the foreign authorities should be more transparent so that gender-based persecution can also allow for refugee status. But it is important to clarify that there must be a causal link between the persecution and one or more of the five reasons given in the Refugee Convention, which is race, religion, nationality, membership of a special social group or political opinion. Otherwise, we suggest that the Government is actively working both to prevent gender-based persecution in Norway and to clarify that gender-based persecution is the basis for asylum in this country, and no later than 17 May, the Government was given the action report by the lowered working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e337	This is probably not the matter to take on the big debate in principle, but I still think it is right to make a little comment. In today's situation, there are 40 million people on the run in the world. 25 million of these are fleeing in their own country. Less than half then are refugees under UN status, i.e. people who have fled across their own borders or into a neighbouring country. As I understand the arguments of the working rapporteur and also the representative of the Right, it is now among the majority that Norway should more or less allow refugees in its own country to be given refugee status and opportunities to stay in Norway. And this is happening in a situation where corruption and government are well aware that Norway today has major problems with integration, settlement, asylum recipients, illegal immigration, etc. I don't necessarily have to say so much more about it, but this at least results in the Progress Party asking to be allowed to vote against the changes in the first paragraph of Section 16. In view of what is being said here, I suspect that the majority in this Chamber and the Government now want to liberalise and open up the possibility of more people getting asylum in Norway, and the Progress Party will not be in that. I believe that Norway should be allowed to decide on an independent basis who will be allowed to stay in Norway. In this way, I also interpret the UN High Commissioner, who shows that he understands that countries in Scandinavia and Europe have now put the spotlight on a certain kind of tightening. It is important that we get the big principle debate this fall, as we hope that the law committee will present its investigation. What is important to us then is to clarify the definitions – clarify what the asylum institution should do, what an asylum seeker is, what a refugee is, and what an immigrant is. Because in the debate in Norway now it seems that everyone is defined as refugees and in a way is required to stay in Norway. That is why the Progress Party has also put forward a proposal that the Refugee Convention should be revised and asks the Government to take an initiative to get it to the United Nations. We cannot base a refugee policy on a post-war convention. It's a completely different situation we have today, how much of the refugees actually are economic refugees, i.e. people who are looking for a better country to live in. And there's nothing negative about that. But when we have 40 million people on the run, it can't be that Norway should sort of stand with open doors while the rest of Europe is tightening up. Then we can imagine the consequences for Norway. When the United Nations defines a refugee as a transfer refugee, i.e. one that is recognised by the United Nations, the Progress Party has said that Norway should then be involved in providing places for such refugees. But then we will also take inward what the United Nations says in relation to asylum seekers: they are individuals who, on their own initiative, have moved from their own country and come to Norway and peeks at the door and ask for asylum on some basis. That's the problem the UN High Commissioner also points out when he says we're using the asylum institute too little. If we had used the asylum institute for all those who have stayed in Norway, perhaps the UN High Commissioner would have been pleased too. And labour immigration, for which the Government now wants to liberalize and open up, I will define as today's asylum immigration. It now wants the Government to define in a way to work immigration in the next round. But, as I said at the outset, the big debate in principle is for the autumn when the law committee presents its position. Then I will promote the proposal contained in the vote, and I hope that the President has come to know that the Progress Party wants to vote against the changes in the first paragraph of Section 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e361	It's noted. The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e364	I point out that there has been a discussion about the proportion of asylum seekers who are granted asylum being relatively low in relation to the proportion who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. I think it's right that we're not now considering any extension of the refugee concept as it's being practiced today. So we want to wait for it from the majority until the law committee's work is clear, and then we'll get back to that question. The second theme to which I would like to make a few brief comments is the need for a review of the legislation to protect against gender-based persecution. There has been a major debate in our debate on gender-based issues related to immigration policy. It is important that we have legislation that provides such protection. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are in favour of the Government's work to ensure that gender-based persecution is a real basis for asylum, and believe that it must be included in the new regulation. It is important that the Government prepare and submit proposals for measures to protect those who are subject to such persecution as soon as possible. Then, on the part of the committee, there are issues about the relationship to settlement in some very specific cases. It is important that we have clear rules that prevent purely speculative residence in Norway. That is why the majority of the committee clearly believes that we want to maintain the law itself unchanged. However, we have seen cases, such as: that an opera singer with a Norwegian family has not been able to obtain a residence permit because she does not have long enough stays in periods, etc. It is important that we take a closer look at practices in the framework of the legislation currently in force, where there is an international profession, strong family ties with Norway, and where it may be obvious that this is not a question of speculative residence, but that it is actually a consequence of having an international profession which requires a longer stay in the international environment. That is why the majority makes proposals asking the Government to clarify the practice of housing by means of regulations that clarify what can be considered reasonable, while stressing that we want to maintain the law, and also having clear rules that prevent speculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e375	This odelstation proposition is proof that the world is moving forward. Many important principles that have been debated are taken into account here. Persecution has traditionally been linked to oppositional political activity in dictatorial countries. Unfortunately, this kind of persecution is not eradicated. But we know that persecution of danger to life and health is not only carried out by governmental powers, but by groups, by the mafia and even by their own families, and that the reasons can be both religious, belonging to minorities and even sex. The Christian People's Party is pleased that gender-based persecution has come on the agenda. That action will be taken to prevent this happening in Norway and that the Government will make it clear that gender-based follow-up is a good reason for asylum. We have a strict refugee policy. But it's important that promises and judgement decisions don't run into what people think is common sense. Therefore, it is positive that the Government will consider how ‘stronger human considerations’ should also be attached to those other than the seeker when applying for employment. The signatures particularly think of a case in Trøndelag in this way, where an older couple depended entirely on a good friend from an Eastern European country. I think we can avoid any of the things that are perceived as molbo things by getting this in place. In so far as it is also applicable to the proposal under B to clarify what is considered to be'reasonable grounds' in the case of construction permits, it may also apply. No one in this room will change the laws. The Christian People's Party and the Government of Meiner of the Law provide the opening for reasonable liberal discretion in the assessment of «reasonable grounds». It's hard to make regulations out of individual matters. But the individual matter that I believe is the basis for this proposal, and as we have also asked questions to the Government, appears to be a molar boss. In this respect, I agree with the last speaker. Sometimes I would like to know that it was above any law: it is allowed to use common sense. I hope and I work to sue about the opera singer who wants to bust his ass in the country, and similar things – if they are there – will end well, even without new regulations. What I find disappointing is that the Labour Party and, to the extent that the Progress Party, too, do not see the need for labour immigration to be possible for unskilled workers. There is a significant shortage of labour in some industries, not least in Coast Norway, where the export industry is strong. And if you have a non-domestic worker, you must be able to get them out. Some major immigration is not caused by this, I am afraid. And before you are accepted to take out the labour force, employers shall have the desire to have the job vacancy domestically. In addition, immigration will not lead to displacement for the unemployed or the disabled. Of all asylum seekers, only approx. 2 pst. which may be granted asylum in Norway. Although many people are suspended on a humanitarian basis, the percentage of asylum granted is significantly lower than in any of our neighbouring countries. Norway has received criticism from the High Commissioner for its practice, and the Christian People's Party wants the absence of such criticism in the future. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that Norwegian practice at this point is consistent with our international obligations under the Refugee Convention, and that the Government must therefore correct practice if it is negligent. We are pleased that the problem is now being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e396	Some comments from the Central Party to five points of the option: First of all, we agree that the government is determined by a statement of who it is that should have refugee status. We thought that the government should use this opportunity to clear up when it comes to the references made several times by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, that so few asylums are granted in Norway compared to those who are being detained on a humanitarian basis. In this context, I would also say that the Central Party should be included in the first plural note on page 4 of the second column of the configuration, which points to economic and administrative differences when it comes to status, and also calls for an additional support scheme for short-term pensioners in Norway – a proposal that the Central Party in the government took initiative in its time, but which has not yet been realised. The second point of the Central Party is support for the Government’s measures to combat gender-based persecution, in order to strengthen legal certainty, information and the asylum procedure in such cases. Then we take up the proposal that has received multiples in the vote, but that is in danger of being voted down in the Chamber. It is a matter of clarifying the practice of examining applications for set-up permits. In a reply of 31 January 2002 to a written question, the Council of State has confirmed that a reasonable basis for such applications can be taken into account. It is now the case of the individual cases that show practice. The background to the question is a person with an international profession who is strongly associated with Norway and has his or her whole family here but who, because of this same profession, does not meet the requirement of seven months in Norway within three years. And then an interview with UDI in the evening post has shown that this can-rule for which it is open is not practiced. And I have to say that I actually do not understand the part of Anita Apelthun's seal that went through this. She stressed that it was allowed to use common sense, yes, she would actually have it into the law that it was allowed to use common sense. It is also in the Storting! It is permissible to use common sense and vote for a proposal that will have so few consequences but that will have a great impact on the few that it owes. The fourth point concerns labour immigration. We come back to our position in the context of the revised national budget, because there the government has announced more changes, but let me say: the government is now creating the impression that it will open up to labour immigration that can affect all the unemployed, all the disabled and all those who ask for a job and are not able to do it today. That's actually a total of 147 000 of them. The government also creates the impression because it cuts in Aetat, it cuts in the follow-up needed to secure more of those who want to work in Norway today, depending on it. The fifth point is human consideration. I was so happy when I saw that the government would actually now look at human concern. These two things that have already been mentioned, from the South-Trøndelag and the South-South/Setesdal, we have been occupied with, and it is nice that conditions are now given in that area. In fact, taking human consideration is about something far more. My invitation to the Government is now: Clean up what is currently a practice in asylum cases where families with children are involved. There they really have a real job to do, and there needs to be more human concern than one has done in relation to all the families of children who are being driven out of the country today – totally unknowable of many communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e416	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e419	The setting indicates that there is a breakdown in the Government proposal. Of course, I'm happy about that. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party have initially taken the opportunity to demonstrate their opposition to an embellishment of the labour immigration legislation. I can assure these members that they will have a rich opportunity to discuss this very issue later. The government sends out a problem note about this these days, where we invite views on a number of questions. Based on this note and the views of the consultation round, we will come back to the Storting with concrete proposals. I just want to tell the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that it is not the government that creates the impression that this is going to be at the expense of the unemployed in Norway. I think it's the opposition that helps create that impression. On the other hand, we have always said that we are concerned not to do so, and therefore put greater burdens on employers who choose to import labour from abroad. The Government has proposed the development of regulations clarifying the criteria for obtaining refugee status. The aim of this round is to make the legislation clearer and more predictable. The intention is not to extend or restrict the understanding of who is a refugee. This is a key issue assessed by the Foreign Affairs Act. But I don't ignore the fact that clarifying and clarifying the criteria for refugee status can lead to some more actually getting refugee status. However, I would like to remind you that we have a legislative committee, and we have a research work to see if today there are people who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, who should have refugee status, to check whether our legislation and our practice follow the right lines. The majority of the Committee has joined the Government's proposal. The regulations shall clarify and clarify the criteria for refugee status, while the legislative committee shall assess the interface between refugee status and humanitarian stay. The consequences of individual refugee status or humanitarian stay are primarily linked to the rules on the benefits of popular protection. Those who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis are assimilated to all Nordics who have been living abroad for a long time. They do not have full social security rights until after 40 years of residence. For those with refugee status, it has been made an exception to this general rule. The majority point to the fact that the Stortinget has asked the Government to implement a scheme of supplementary support for short-stay pensioners in Norway. The government intends to submit a proposal to the Stortinget at the turn of the year 2002/2003. The Progress Party proposes that the Government work towards starting work at the UN on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention. This was just done in connection with the 50th anniversary of the Refugee Convention last year. The High Commissioner launched a very comprehensive process in 2000, which was designed to assess the relevance of the Convention at a different time. I myself attended a meeting last December with representatives from the countries that have ratified the Convention. The main conclusion of this very extensive process was that the Convention remains relevant and that the Convention provides sufficient room for flexibility in relation to the current situation. The majority of the Committee considers that there is a need to ensure the legal status of women in asylum matters and to make the asylum procedure more gender-sensitive. Reference is made to UDI opinions that less emphasis is placed on conditions that can be considered as gender-based persecution in cases where the information is not provided immediately. Like the committee, I understand that it can be very difficult to tell about this type of assault. However, I would like to stress that the UDI extends far in order to facilitate the detection of this type of persecution. This work has been intensified in recent years. In addition, the Government is actively working to clarify that gender-based persecution forms the basis for asylum in Norway. When we say make it clear, it's because both the Refugee Convention and today's Norwegian legislation actually say that gender-based persecution is the basis for asylum. But we will come back to this when we present proposals for regulations that clarify the criteria for refugee status. I would like to say a few words at the end about one special case: practice in examining the application for a residence permit. A number of committees, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, ask us to clarify the practice in matters of residence permits through regulations that clarify what can be considered reasonable. As you know, a sample commissioned to investigate and prepare proposals for a new foreign law has been set up. The committee has been asked to look at exactly these conditions as well. The Committee shall conclude its work by 31 December 2003. Among the questions that the sample will have to look at are the rules on residence permits. I have to say that I see it as not very appropriate to start a parallel work in this area in the department. [[The President clubs.]] I would like to stress that it is not the question of whether a foreigner should be allowed to live or work here in the country. It is a question of whether to renew each year or not to renew the permit every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e442	It's not easy to keep time always – we're all aware of that. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e447	The first thing I want to challenge the state council is what she says we have to expect to get some more refugees. What does ‘some’ mean, and who will be at the expense of when we know that we have to tighten in? The Council of State also knows that the EU will have a summit in 14 days. The agenda includes the common asylum, immigration and refugee policy. We also know that the major countries of Europe by their top leaders have given a signal that they are now interested in tightening up all these areas. My question to the Council of State is then: Is the Government willing to join, or at least look at, those changes and take them inwards, when the Foreign Affairs Act is finally to be addressed in the autumn/winter 2002–2003? Then I'll be allowed to comment on the following: we know that some cultures, traditions and also religions cause persecution. It's a truth. When we see and hear that representatives here today, including the Council of State in fact, are willing to open up to define, among other things. Gender-based persecution and greater emphasis on staying in Norway – this is also linked to my main post, where I was concerned that there are 40 million refugees in the world today – is my simple question simply: Who is it that cannot be defined as a genuine applicant or who is not entitled to stay in Norway after all, when we are going to open up greater and greater opportunities, background and reasons for seeking a stay in Norway? We know that there are also parties in the hall here that want gay people to be allowed to enter the same right. My question is, who is it that cannot seek residence in Norway with grounds for refugee or asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e460	The main governing body for our asylum and refugee policy is the convention that we have signed, which says something about the rights of asylum seekers and refugees. That will be the basic framework for how we will practice and develop our asylum and refugee policies in the years to come. As far as work in the EU is concerned, we have not gone through all the proposals that lie there, but the proposals for directives that the EU has had are, in fact, considered to be able to improve the situation for Norway. There are a number of proposals to improve the treatment of asylum seekers in countries that currently have a poor reception system for asylum seekers. It could relieve the pressure on the countries of northern Europe if some of the countries of southern Europe are going to have better treatment for asylum seekers, because we know that some of them are moving and are looking for somewhere else later. Better general treatment for asylum seekers and refugees will therefore be a good thing for Norway if such a policy is found across the EU. But the framework for this will in any case lie in what we have committed ourselves to in relation to the Convention. So to the question of whether everyone is allowed to get protection because we are now opening up for, among other things. gender-based persecution, that we've done it, and we're going to clarify it. I really think that the experience we had with the killing in Kristiansund shows what we're talking about. So this was one of the few people in this country who had been asylumed on the basis of gender-based persecution, because she could not possibly stay in or be sent back to Afghanistan, with a family and a man she had left because of abuse, and who thus threatened to take her life. So he did it on Norwegian soil. This should show that not anyone can come here and apply for asylum. You need protection. The lack of protection in your home country against the persecution you experience should be a basis for staying in Norway or not – not necessarily culture and tradition, but simply for your home country not being able to provide protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e469	I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is not such that she believes that, in principle, the possibility of asylum in Norway has not been extended, so the changes we are making today are suitable for granting asylum to more people, and that in that case fewer people will be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, and that the main change is taking place. The second thing about this regulation is to strengthen the political space for action and the responsibility for the practices that are being carried out, as the government is actually now given the authority to make a regulation that it is politically possible to change if you see that practice is completely contrary to what you think is right. SV is very pleased with that, because we perceive that the government needs such a space of action, and the Storting needs the government to have such a space of action, so that it is possible to find solutions to acute matters that you see carry absolutely wrong in place, as we have seen now. I want to ask the Council of State to confirm this, and that this is kind of to free herself from what she thought when she sailed was a magnificent representative, and characterized what happened when the foreign student was set up, as a political disclaimer. Then I need to challenge the Council of State on some of what she said in her speech, too, because the government parties in the election don't describe the situation as the Council of State did, namely that it would be good for everyone if all the countries of Europe agreed on best practice. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party say that only Norwegian practices should be compared with ‘similar practices in countries that are naturally comparable’. I then ask, which country is this? Is that the Netherlands? Is that Denmark? Which countries is it natural to compare with? And is it that the Government will be pushed to the worst practice and not push the others to the best practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e478	I do not believe that the members of the Right Party or the Christian People's Party in the Committee believe that it is the practice in Greece or Italy that we most naturally compare ourselves with. It is countries that would have had a significantly better treatment practice – not asylum criteria, but treatment practices – by asylum seekers if the EU had a new policy. I therefore believe that there is room in the handling of asylum matters that we can use. We need to know that if we use that space very expanded and do not focus on those who really need protection, but if very many others too, if we have a completely different policy, we will have an economic cost associated with it. My starting point is that we mainly follow the High Commissioner's recommendations and national policies in this area. I also believe that the members of the Right and Christian People's Party in the Committee think so. I would like to remind you that there are a number of countries that have been ahead of us on the issue of third-party persecution, gender-based persecution. It's e.g. such that our neighbouring country in the west, the United Kingdom, has a high court judgment such as: have extended the basis for asylum for women who have been persecuted, for example: from Pakistan, because the court has preceded and defined the legislation. We have to keep up with legislative changes, but we always have to make the national independent choices for what we want to do. But I also think we're going to be honest, because if we're going to figure out completely different national assessments, it's going to have a cost. Following the recommendations of the High Commissioner in the case of Kurds from Northern Iraq, the influx to Norway has stopped. During the same period, Sweden, which had not been in favour of this kind of policy, had 6 000 more applicants. It shows something, and it did, that the Swedish government in April took a decision on changes. It also shows that, in reality, our space of action will always be limited if all other countries pursue a different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e491	I regret to say that the Council of State does not want to clarify what should be reasonable grounds for applying for the right of establishment. The Council of State refers to a legislative work to be completed in December 2003, of course with the following work, which takes time, before a case comes to the Stortinget. She could have specified in the regulations the same requirements for constancy by way of constancy, such as: in the case of citizenship, the requirement of grounds for absence, or simply the introduction of a practice currently provided for in the law, that the UDI may, when dealing with matters, consider whether there are reasonable grounds. So a few more words about the situation of some kids in Norway with today’s practice. Some of us in the committee had a strong meeting, including: with the chairman of my neighbouring municipality, Suldal, earlier this week. There are now three families of children who have been on the run for several years – including nine children – who have been told that they are not wanted in this country. It is parents who have work, it is disease involved, and there are employers who need labour. Employers do not understand this, not in relation to the signals given by the Council of State when it comes to labour immigration. The locals do not understand that the Council of State Frafjord Johnson can stand on the United Nations Chair of Speech and speak for and maintain the UN Children's Convention when the same Convention is not followed in Norway. Will the Council of State take any initiative here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e498	To the end, I just want to say that we have prepared – and the Stortinget passed the law before the summer of last year – that we should not give work permits, residence permits, to people who have applied for and have been refused asylum. I think it is very important to separate labour immigration and immigration issues related to work from the institution of asylum. There's a lot of such individual ships, and there'll be even more if we hadn't kept it apart high. It's okay to say that we should take human consideration. What's in the setting is not about it. This is about who is to be taken into account, namely if you, for example. in other cases, the needs of a person living in Norway shall be taken into account. We kind of haven't opened up a discussion about this in other areas. I understand that many people react to it when people are at work – also in other ways. I think we sometimes have to say that this is important for preventive reasons so that we don't get big, new inflows – so we mix together into a pool of those who need protection, and what is labour immigration, which means that it's very difficult to let, for example. asylum seekers will be in work in the future when they live at reception. We probably had to stop it if we were to do this. And I think that would be negative for integration. So to the statement that we don't want to clarify, we're saying we're going to clarify. We're going to make a new law, and we're going to go through all these rules and make a new law. That legislation is likely to be addressed to the Stortinge during 2004. We can't promise just when it comes before we know what the content is, and before we know how much the content is being discussed. But I want to say that this is a single thing. Persons are allowed to stay in Norway — they have work, they have a residence permit in Norway, but they do not receive a permanent residence permit. If we are going to push forward our own work on regulatory development in a shorter time because of this matter, it will delay the work on a very large number of other matters in a department that is currently under pressure to bring forward the legislative changes. So I think this is disproportionate to the size of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e511	The Council of State represents a government in which several representatives stand on this pulpit – representatives of this government – and underlines the need for a simpler regulation in many areas. A simpler regulation applies specifically to business, it may appear. To this end, with building permits: there is neither a change in the law nor so much basic work to be done, for what it is about is actually for the Council of State to take on the responsibility it has to clarify a practice to which the Storting has long since given its support. That's what this is about. It's about a single matter – and probably someone else, because there's someone else who has an international profession, or who has a spouse who has it, and who has to apply over and over again to get a break in Norway for a certain period of time. I hope that the Council of State notices the posts that have been here today, that there is actually a multiple in this room that wants a change in this area. It should not be necessary to walk the road that the Council of State calls for. So it can be a temporary clarification, and then the law selection comes after years – because the Council of State has confirmed that it will go on for years. So, in relation to the possibility of applying for work in Norway for those who have been denied their asylum application here: so it is that there are three parties – SV, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party – who have taken a positive view of it. This means that if the Council of State opens up to it – it has been liberal in other areas – it actually has the opportunity to take an initiative to change that law. But the main thing in my reply is: Will the Council take any initiative in relation to children who have fled over several years, who have rotted in Norway, and who communities will be here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e522	I am strongly in favour of a simpler regulation. It's not that it's just to instruct about a practice; according to the new rules resulting from the new foreign law and the changes there, it has to be written a rule. It must be legal crystal clear of who is excluded from it. We can't make one rule of law that only applies to one single matter, when we've stopped having political involvement in the individual matters. This, I think, is a relatively difficult way to pursue policies: first to exclude political interference in individual cases, and then to create new regulations that concern only one single matter. So looking every year means meeting the police once a year and getting a new stamp. Measured up for the work of a code in the Ministry of Local Affairs to come one, or maybe one and a half years earlier, with a new code to solve this, my choice of simplification is that we are actually waiting for the law committee that makes a whole new law, and that will also give us new regulations. In the case of children, we have a code that says that the individual issues are being dealt with, and we have an UDI and a UNE. The individual cases are dealt with, inter alia: from the humanitarian residence code. This means that children’s association and situation are among the things that are considered difficult when UDI and UNE address the issues of stay in Norway. A main reason why many are accepted for humanitarian residence is in that context the situation for children and families with children. I see no reason to make any new legislation now linked to this, especially for issues that have now been rejected and where we believe that people can return to their homeland and contribute to rebuilding the countries of the Balkans instead of staying in Norway. Of course, it's better for the children to stay here in Norway, but there's no one-sided emphasis on children. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e532	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e537	The SV share the view of the Council of State that it is those who have grounds for asylum to be asylumed in Norway, but asylum treatment in Norway takes a very long time. Many sit and wait for years, among them are many families of children, and that's where the discretion fails, that's where the human considerations are not taken to a large extent enough. There is room to take that consideration, but I record that the Council of State is not willing to flag politically that it might have been wise to do so, it would have been human to do so. Now it looks like you're willing to prioritize a lot of resources, both police and even defence resources, to get these children's families out, while some of those who are actually criminals and create a problem don't seem to have the resources to prioritize. This is an opinion that is not just mine and SVs. People call me every day and ask me why in all the world it's like that. There are many individuals in court, and in municipalities that have arranged everything to accommodate these families, to give them a good school, to integrate them. There is really no reason for them to travel, because it is the responsibility of the authorities that this has taken a long time. So if you had been a little more humane and liberal in some of these things, you'd also have a better understanding of the width of the population for the strict measures you have to put in place where it's needed. So to the Progress Party, which points out that there are 40 million refugees in the world. Yes, it is, and of them, in fact, very few come to Norway. If the Progress Party had really been concerned with the refugees and not just with what we are doing, they would have been involved when the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV yesterday said that we should work a lot stronger with a burden-sharing principle in refugee policy through the UN, among other things. to ensure that all countries, including the rich, take their responsibilities. Now it's the poorest countries that take the big load, that's where there's millions on millions of refugees. Then there are some of the richest countries that just take some, and they go into the refugee camps to the UN High Commissioner and pick the most resource-intensive and the most educated. It is a raw game, and the Progress Party should be involved in ensuring that the UN is working for a burden-sharing principle. In addition, there is reason to point out that when it comes to gender-based persecution, it shows the Progress Party – I don't know if I should call it – Janus face; that's the nicest thing I could call it. There is no need for women to be persecuted, which means that the Progress Party is committed to these matters on Norwegian soil. They get engaged because some men of foreign origin commit criminal activity in Norway, not because women are oppressed and persecuted because of sex.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e549	We're going to settle for 8,800 people who've been accommodated in Norway. It actually means that it takes into account. Many people stay in Norway. The majority are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis. Then it is not right to say that it is not taken into account, for example. children, difficult situations or a long time in Norway. That's the opposite that actually happens. I want us to live less, because we live too many people who do not live here because they have a need for protection, but because they have been here for a long time and the proceedings have been too long. That's why the government's priority is to bring down the trial period, both at first instance and in the Board of Appeal, and to get better sorting in line, so that we quickly get away from the most groundless applications, and then we spend a little longer time on the other issues. However, all should be so long that it is fully possible to return both for the family and for the children after the proceedings have been completed. We use a lot of resources on this just to reduce the processing time. But to say that we in Norway do not take into account that we do not have a humanitarian policy on asylum and refugee issues – we do. We take reasonable account of the fact that we have a case-by-case treatment that is unhindered in relation to political signals and governance and political contacts, but also the work that is taking on board today, not least in relation to the children's situation and health-related situations. But we also have to put our foot down so that people don't use the system to continue to stay and even create a situation that makes it impossible to return afterwards. That's why we might have to be a little bit more square in relation to quickly sending people out when you're done with their case, so that we just prevent the human burden from getting even greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e554	When I initially did not want a fundamental debate, it was because I thought the debate would take place in a little more proper form. But when the representative Karin Andersen, in an innocent way with an old SV method, once again tries to analyse and present the Progress Party in a completely different way from what we stand for, I have to take the floor. I am aware that SV wants several hundred thousand refugees and asylum seekers to Norway, which would exacerbate the situation – yes, we can't see it either. When we can't integrate 7,000 to 8,000 people a year, SV will do it with hundreds of thousands. We are aware of that. We also know that SV wants to reduce penalties, while we want stricter penalties. These are the immigrant girls, whom I expect Karin Andersen was trying to point out, we are taking care of through stricter penalties, more stringent immigration, more stringent family reunification requirements, no to trafficking in young girls and boys. In winter, SV tried to imagine these girls that they also wanted to tighten up here, but when it came to reality, SV stood at his old stand and was not involved in such measures. When these girls discover this, it's easy to conclude that the Advance Party is the only party that stands by such promises to these girls. When it comes to gender-based persecution, we don't want to let it open up for a reason to come to Norway and get asylum or stay, while SV wants it – frankly from SV, but we don't want it at all, because we think it will make the situation worse for those who already live in Norway and those who will come here. And then it's a little neat when SV and Karin Andersen are trying to do the burden-sharing principle. Who is this in the Chamber who has given money to the poor countries so that they can take on the burdens they have suffered from the refugees? I'm just referring to Afghanistan, where the Progress Party was at the head to allocate half a billion to remedy the situation. Did SV vote for it? No, they voted against it. So here I think we have to sort the cards a little bit. So what I think is interesting. I'm sure Karin Andersen gets a lot of phones and a lot of e-mails from people. I don't know what'many' is in her eyes, but I, who represents the Advancement Party, can at least tell you that I've never received so many phones and so many e-mails and so many letters dealing with this area, and that's from most people. Now it's like I represent a party that has 25 pst on the polls, while SV has 15-16 pst. Based on those considerations, I have a greater part of the people behind me in my opinions than what SV and Karin Andersen have. That's what's a little bit of a point. When we get to the autumn and winter and we get the big, principled debate, I hope that SV and Karin Andersen have also been more affected by the young girls and boys who are now suffering from SV's policy. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e571	I shall refrain from commenting on the last article, except to say that there is a large degree of agreement in all parties except the Progress Party on major aspects of refugee and asylum policy. For my part, in relation to what the Council of State said in its last speech, I would like to stress that the Central Party supports a restrictive immigration policy. We have supported several proposals from the Government to ensure different treatment of applications depending on whether there are so-called open-ended applications or whether there are people who – just as openly – need protection. We have contributed to the allocation of resources to reduce the process time, and have supported other measures to make one more effective. But we're worried about the focus that's now on the group that is open-ended to those who really need attention, who need a more thorough procedure than the many times they've been exposed to, and who need greater legal certainty. That was the purpose of the foreign education. Unfortunately, however, it is through the proceedings that we get involved through engaged people in some communities, such as the fact that legal security does not seem to have been well maintained. The proceedings do not seem to take account of the potential for human consideration. It is not that human concern as it could well be understood that the Council of State suddenly made it, is something that the Government is taking the initiative now. The government is now taking the initiative, as I understand, to extend the scope of ‘human considerations’ to include employment. But from now on, there is a possibility in the law to take human care. It is where there is a strong desire from both the Centre Party and from others that the Council of State is playing more with the communities on which it relies in the future to understand how to busle more refugees. [[The President clubs.]] Then there are some families with children that she had not been denied.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e580	The President just has to say that there are a number of people now who have the speaking time. The President understands that, but will nevertheless ask everyone to keep the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e583	There are some posts that are so unsubstantiated that they should perhaps be overlooked in silence. However, I only need to establish the following when it comes to gender-based persecution in Norway: SV has promoted the proposals made by Human Right Service, namely to set up a working group to look at family reunification and age and to look at sibling childhood and for health studies to be for all children and young people and not just for a special group. In addition, perhaps the Progress Party should lend its ear to the Human Right Service, which is very much in favour of gender-based persecution as a basis for asylum. They know what it's about, they know what this is. And they see that even some of those who are allowed to come here to the country, we can't protect. It will be one of the difficult challenges when we get a regulation that says that we should provide protection on that basis – to do well to protect even then. But in very many countries, it is a political act that women make their own choices, that they want education, that in some cases they want divorce, and that they do not find themselves in violence, coercion and abuse – it is a threat to the existing. Suffering if the law may occasionally be on their side, they experience lands that are not willing to protect them. And then the Progress Party points back 50 years in time and says, "Look at the war! Then there were kind of decent refugees, then there were reasons that were much better than those these women have, and we have to look at the Refugee Convention completely again, because now the refugees are not real enough and worthy enough. I can't believe that this is not a real and worthy reason, which we, as a civilised country, have to take inwards. The work we do here in Norway is completely powdered if we do not have a consistent view of this through our refugee policy, through our policies at home and through our foreign policy, including through our work in international organisations and in the UN. So here I think the Progress Party is actually going to have to reconsider its vision, because it is simply not in the belief that you are so concerned about this issue as it is within Norway's borders, and that you should be able to fight this problem – because it is, it is a great evil – just by pursuing a restrictive immigration policy here in the country. The most paradoxical thing about this is that the girls that the Progress Party now says they want to protect wouldn't be here if the Advance Party's policies had been implemented, and the ones that had been here, you'd have to watch out for it. So this is going to be so much better than SV's policy in this area, it's very difficult to understand. SV is therefore concerned that we should follow the Refugee Convention, and we therefore perceive that gender-based persecution is a real ground for asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e590	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e593	First: No, the Progress Party is not just concerned with Norway. That is why we have also put forward proposals in this Chamber, and I therefore challenged the Council of State earlier today whether we should perhaps join in the programmes that the European Union is now in the process of drawing up, which are actually moving in the direction proposed by the Progress Party in this Chamber. So to the difference, it comes out here: SV has therefore proposed a working group to evaluate and figure out something that we know is a big problem. The Progress Party has proposed changes, legislative changes, while SV wants to assess in the knowledge and the broad. What's the essence of this is that SV thinks they're going to make the world better with all of these people, 40 million people who are being persecuted, being allowed to emigrate to Norway. Reality isn't like that. The Progress Party believes that if we're going to make the world better, we have to work through our foreign policy and through that kind of channels, and not let these people come to Norway, because then at least we don't do the world any better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 310]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e608	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e785	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e795	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e899	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e909	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e944	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e954	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e996	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1006	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1013	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary legislative proposals so that the national broker can ask an organisation to send the mediation proposal to a vote and that there should be a legal obligation to peace during the voting period.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make the necessary legislative proposals so that the individual business club can accept or oppose, by way of an out-of-date vote, the job losses that are determined to be central’. Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess in more detail whether the current termination scheme as a condition for the imposition of strike/lockout should be amended to a system of conflict alerts according to Swedish pattern.’ The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1159	For § 5, no. The third sentence of Article 7 is replaced by the following: 1, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, and the Christian People's Party, and it is first weighed down by the proposal. The President expects the Left to support this proposal. – It is confirmed. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 35, paragraph The third sentence shall be replaced by the following:If the result of the vote is not available within the time limit, the mediation proposal shall be deemed to have been adopted.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1178	It is then voted on the Committee's recommendation to Article 35(3). 6 to 9 and new paragraphs 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1238	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1248	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1256	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the UN to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1312	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1337	For the second sentence, there is an aberrant proposal. That is proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 21 shall be replaced by the following:When this is decided after entry, the directorate shall, in such cases, grant refugee status if the applicant has reason to be treated as such.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1464	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1475	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1486	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05-lower.ana.ud1211e1497	There is no record.
