ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e30	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative Jens P. Flå died on 31 January, shortly before he would reach the age of 79. With Jens P. Flaå, a political veteran has passed away. He was elected to the local government in Rennebu as early as 1948, as a representative of the Christian People's Party. He was – with a brief interruption – a member of the local government until 1973, when he was elected to the Stortinget from Sør-Trøndelag. For ten years he was also rapporteur in the municipality of Rennebu. He combined this with the operation of two farms. Jens P. Flaå sat on the Stortinget for three periods. At that time he was a member of the Financial Committee for two periods and in the last member of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. Jens P. Fleå is portrayed as a very good colleague of his co-representatives, both within his own party and in other parties. He was a nice conversation partner, a good adviser and very versatile. He was able to combine principle thinking with practical approach. He had the word in his power and was a sought-after listener and speaker. He always found good, moody and striking comments, and often helped to resolve the mood that way. It was probably not without reason that the Danish Storm P. was among Jens P.'s favourites. Jens P. Fleå lived a lifetime of faith in his roots, both the roots of agriculture and the roots of church and Christian life. He was a member of the council for many years and was here both leader and vice-chairman. He was also the president of the Rennebu Internal Affairs Association. As a retired person, he engaged in local historical work and local cultural work. He co-authored two local history books and was a member of Rennebu Radio. He has been a member of several public committees: the 1972 Committee to investigate the price problems, the so-called Skånland Committee. Furthermore, he was a member of the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Land and Ant Society and of the Main Committee for Local Government Reforms as well as of the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Postsparebank. With Jens P. Flaå, an all-round, talented and highly committed fellow human being has gone away. He was actively involved in the political debate until recently. His departure came unexpectedly. Former PAC Gunnar Håshovd is dead, 77 years old. When Gunnar Håshovd was elected to Stortinget from Buskerud in 1969 as a representative of the Workers' Party, he already had two periods behind him as an alternate. In the twelve years up to 1981 he sat on the Stortinget, he was a member of the Social Committee. Gunnar Hvshovd was born in Kongsberg, and it was Kongsberg who was his strong access point. As an 18-year-old in 1942, he was employed at Kongsberg Arms Factory. Here he was employed until 1982. Hwishovd became early party political active. At the age of 21, he became the head of the Kongsberg AUF, and in the years 1954 to 1975 he held a number of political positions: a member of the board of the Buskerud Workers' Party, Chairman of the Kongsberg Workers' Party and Vice President of the Buskerud Workers' Party. From an early age, Hvshovd was strongly involved in local policy. Only 24 years old he became a member of the Kongsberg Presidency for the first time. He was the city's rapporteur for ten years, from 1959 until he was elected to the Stortinget in the fall of 1969. Then he was again a member of the Presidency for two years. The county policy also benefited from his commitment, and throughout his time as a magnificent representative he kept in close contact with the political life of Kongsberg. Among other things, he did a large local effort for the hospital in the city. In addition, Håvshovd had a large number of public offices in Kongsberg municipality as well as several trusts in various organisations. In the social committee, hospital cases were particularly important. Cancer research and the Radium Hospital were also issues that received great attention and that were followed closely up. Håshovd also led the selection that assessed the functional division between the Rikshospitalet and other major Norwegian hospitals, such as Haukeland in Bergen, the Regional Hospital in Trondheim and the University Hospital in Tromsø, and the Stortinget's decision in that case marked the Norwegian hospital system for many years to come. But even in a short interview with the Future in 1981, Hvshovd stated that the most difficult matter he had had in his time here was to have the Equality Act passed. ‘In Stortinget it was that between-parties would not have any equality law, SV’s proposal was more about the situation in the labour market. So it was only the Workers' Party and the Right that together could create an equality law, and those negotiations were difficult," he said. Gunnar Hvshovd was easy to get along with. He was casual and engaged and had a large contact network and a large circle of friends here on the Stortinget and on the local plane. In his last years of life he broke with sickness, but still got a fine time as a pensioner in the hometown in which he was so happy. And until last he was looking at his daily walks into the city where he met the famous and struck by a chat. We remember Jens P. Fleå and Gunnar Hvshovd with deep respect and gratitude for their work on the Storting and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e83	Two permit applications are available: from May Britt on welfare leave from 19 February to 21 February from the representative of Torny Pedersen on welfare leave from 19 February to 21 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the county of Hordaland: Harald HoveFor the county of Nordland: Tomas Norvoll3. Tomas Norvoll is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Torny Pedersen
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e116	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e119	On behalf of the representatives of Karin Andersen, Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I would like to make proposals for amendments to the rules on rehabilitation and repatriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e124	The representative Svein Roald Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e127	On behalf of the representatives Sylvia Brustad, Tore Nordtun, Asmund Kristoffersen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for changes to the final treatment charge for waste used for energy recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e132	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e136	I would like to make a proposal that the State withdraws its appeal in the matter of the State lost in Oslo City Law by judgment of 28 February 2001 against the State of Amelia Riis and additional appropriations to cover the compensation imposed on the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e159	The budget for Framework Area 17, the main area of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, was adopted by proposals and votes from a majority composed of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party. One of several areas affected by the majority’s ageing was landlines. In secondary schools, some lines are defined as country lines or national lines, lines not found in all counties. Landlines are a course that the state finances. It is decided that they should be open to applicants from all over the country. Land-wide lines are courses on which there is no basis for having in more than one or a few counties, and where county municipalities have agreed that applicants from all over the country should remain stable on consumption. The 2001 budget allocated well 139 million. SEK in grants for Programme category 07.30 Further training, chapter 231. In a proposal for a State budget, the Government of Stoltenberg proposed to remove the entire grant by way of compensation through the use of discretionary means for the municipalities concerned. The Bondevik government did not propose any money for the measure either. In the negotiations of the Progress Party with the Government, there was a demand from our party for a 90 million return. kr, one of the very few requirements that was actually met. During the examination of the budget of the Financial Committee, the Government parties submitted to the Government what had not previously been a priority, and then, in fact, with a total of EUR 139 million for last year. kr, and justified by an oblivion. The truth is that reactions from the schools, students and trades affected by vocational training provided strong signals, and this resulted in a political response. Indeed, from the platform of the Progress Party in the case, the result is better than expected. It's 109.8 million. kr in relation to a request of 90 million. kr, in the budget decision by means of the agreement with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. From that point of view, we could lend ourselves well back and say well blown! But we don't. We feel responsibility for following the case further in the interests of students, parents and the need to ensure important education skills. From the majority of the Committee, a lead was given on the road: ‘... landlines that are specifically cost-intensive or of national importance should be prioritised.’ And here we are promoting at the heart of the matter and at the reason that this part of the budget decision gets a follow-up through an interpellation. I have as my starting point that a minority government that even forces its total budget in place with taboo issues – apologies: cabinet issues – shall be both active and vigilant in its follow-up to budget decisions. Decision of the majority – 109.8 million. kr – met with a political canonade from both political teams in the ministry and from some of the party's fractions in bulk and committee. The Ministry of Education and Research has also been able to render incorrect the majority’s priority decisions as costly and of national importance rather than as ‘cost-intensive or of national importance’. Here it's a distinct difference. Hopefully, this is not the expression of reading skills in the department. But then there's this about being active and careful then! Do a combination: The active act may be a good combination of a minority rule. Instead of showing a polemic political irritation over a reduced allocation, a reduction originally entered by this government, I think the forces should be used to find good solutions in line with the amount and direction given. On 7 January of this year, the Ministry sent a letter to the counties notifying them of a decision on a cut in the State budget relating to the 30 million landlines. kr, and the corresponding decision on the reduction in the number of places and the winding-up of grants. Some lines were notified of cut-offs from 1 January 2002. However, the recording of the lines was for the longest time, and the course of half a year began on the same day the letter was written. The schools concerned do not perceive that they get understandable answers when they ask why, and how they are going to handle students who have already started after confirmed admission. Is it true that the cut is 30 million? Do you really want to delete this item? From the department I've been given some numbers. For 2001, it is set at 139 million. Total kr. For 2001, 120 million have been used. NOK in grants based on places and students, choose 4 million. kr is used for smooth driving courses and additional allocation to Sogn, and the rest – so well 14 million. kr – is used for equipment. The payment is made on 1 April and 1 October. In fact, the structure of money use for 2001 could have been actively notified as input to the Committee’s treatment without difficulty. Compared to a new budget framework of 109.8 million. NOK is this 120 million cut. NOK -110 million. So it's going to be $10 million. NOK, if we only calculate a purely place/school-based grant. The student-based cuts announced by the Department seem to be close to $13 million. kr, based on the payments declared in 2001. In relation to the guidelines given, and I stress the meaning of the word ‘or’, it seems that the notified cut has been taken rather diabolically. It seems that little has been seen of the use of capacity on the most cost-intensive lines, where notified capacity adjustments could provide space for lines of national importance. In fact, in order to be able to read this, you have to look at the total list of lines, capacity, students per. line and cost rate. It would be unnecessary, but in the struggle with bureaucratic rigidity and political disputeability it is sometimes necessary to go deep. Movements have taken place from the municipalities concerned. It may seem from the media that some county councils are willing to help take the bill. Such participation, if any, should form part of an overall framework covering both the State and the county, when the overall priority for the whole calendar year 2002 is to be implemented. It is also the case that some of the courses it is taught are semi-annual courses, while others go over the full school year. The student covering in the autumn of 2001 is also being covered by student coverings in the spring of 2002. The deadline for applying for admission to a full-year course starting in the autumn of 2002 for the 2002–2003 school year is, as I understand it, 1 March 2002. The following additional comments have also been made from the majority of the Committee: ‘The majority ask the Government to come back with a complete review of the Landline Grant Scheme of the Revised National Budget for 2002’.» It is therefore important, in relation to the deadline for application of 1 March, to have clear advance signals now. I refer again to active care! A few weeks ago, there was a great deal of government activity to prepare the basis for presenting a separate proposition for: 1. to secure $12 million. to pay for the censorship of the secondary school leaving class also in 2002 and 2. ensuring funding for Government's performance proposals; The reason was both the desire for money and the need for rapid clarification. Both parts were also rematched to secure solutions in line with the Government's wishes, which should also show a monetary impact. But when the government claims that they have so much care for the landlines, where are the signals of an effort to get the missing money for the landlines? Or is it that the country lines have once again been subjected to a political forgetting of the government parties? Finally, in my view, the Government and the Council of State should also have taken an initiative here to consult the Committee and the majority on the follow-up to the budget decision. For students, parents, schools, employees and affected counties as well as industries, the Ministry should seek consultation instead of confrontation. It's not too late! I hope that the interpellation can provide signals clarifying the priority and total funding for the students concerned, both those who are students today, and those who plan to become students on these lines in the 2002–2003 school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e237	Following the treatment by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of the State budget for 2002, the grant is continued to be granted to lines of higher education at 109.8 million. kr. This involves a cut of less than 30 million. kr in relation to 2001 and has implications for the size of landlines. It has proved to be different perceptions of what is contained in the wording ‘specially cost-intensive or of national importance’, but the most important thing now is that we come up with a solution that ensures, as far as possible, an offer in small subjects. I'm assuming that all landline services have some kind of national significance. In addition, some of the offers are specifically cost-intensive. Reduction in the budget of 30 million. SEK is taken from the following reductions in the 2002 grant scheme: Discharge of grants for the fields of study sport, music, dance and drama, as well as for the general field of sport, from the autumn of 2002Reduction in the number of places receiving grants for VK II VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT vT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT VT V Flight, aeronautical, avionics, civil engineering and civil engineering repair are cost-intensive occupations that recruit to industries and occupations where there is a high current need for labour. These subjects must therefore also be said to be of national importance – just as folk music and sport are. Music, dance and drama, general subjects and sports subjects are in this context, and with the rates calculated by the Ministry, the country lines that are least costly. The assessment has therefore been that these are those of today’s landline services which would be easiest for county municipalities to maintain through cooperation after the government grant has fallen away. Both music, dance and drama and sports — with different depressions — are study directions found in most counties and usually funded by the county. That some schools and depressions, e.g. folk music, having received national line status and financed by state grants, are exceptions. The National Coordination Committee for Small secondary education — NSU — is a body set up by the counties to ensure cooperation on small secondary education subjects. The minutes of a meeting between the Ministry and the NSU on 9 January 2002 indicate that the NSU recommends that the offers currently exempted from State operating grants be taken over by the respective county councils as county councils offering school year 2002-2003 and that the other county councils provide prior guarantees for the purchase of student places to students from their home counties. I'm very happy about this. In addition to national routes, small trades are offered throughout the country. These are school services where county municipalities cooperate in subjects where there is only a candidate base to maintain one or a few classes on a national basis. The nationwide offers show that the county municipality can cooperate very well in the performance of its tasks in the field of secondary education. It is the NSU who assesses which subjects are to be covered by the offer and where the offers are to be located. The county councils entrusted with such a task are responsible for the operation and financing of the offer and undertake the admission of applicants from all over the country. The county council is guaranteed payment from the students' home counties through an agreement signed by all the county councils. Experience has shown that it is not necessarily the case that State funding is more stable than if the local government sector has a responsibility within its own financial framework. My opinion is that it should be considered to replace the national rail system with another and safer financing system. In its presentation on modernisation and simplification in the public sector, State Council Victor D. Norman suggested that there should be a greater degree of ‘local freedom and local responsibility’ when it comes to the public’s key tasks — such as providing school and education services to young people. Norman also suggested that the money should be more closely followed by the user. The debate on landlines shows a need for the money to follow the student more closely than they do today. If the money follows the student, the counties will be more able to make an offer that is consistent with actual needs, especially as they are expressed through the students' own choices. The Training Act states that the county council is responsible for planning and expanding the advanced training offer. The current system of landlines contributes to the preservation of these offers in the form and extent set out several years ago because they are not subject to the overall planning and prioritisation of the counties in the same way as the other courses in secondary education. Central governments do not have the same conditions to assess the dimension of the offer offered by the county councils. The Ministry will carry out a review of the national rail system and return to Stortinget, as promised, with an assessment of the situation in relation to the revised national budget. The NSU and the county municipalities will be involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e283	I thank you for the answer, but I feel that I am left with more open questions than clarifying answers. The question is whether the Council of State has brought with it the critical date of 1 March, which affects the admission of a school year beyond the financial year. So when we talk about schools, we have a conflict between two terms of time. One is a state budget year that follows the calendar year, and the other is a school year that breaks the calendar year. Otherwise, I warmly agree with the Council of State that the very best solution is that the money follows the students. Unfortunately, we do not have a majority for the time being, nor can it be put in place quickly. What is the actual and acute situation for pupils and parents is that they need clarification to provide a comprehensive and predictable funding mechanism covering the 2002–03 school year. Reference to banker eight county municipalities and county municipalities on sette beds – which may be still in liquidation – is at best an unexplained reference. My appeal is still that in the same way that the Government has announced its own proposal to clarify the examination, just as the Government has announced its own proposal to clarify the financing of possible new performances, and both of them justifying the need for a rapid clarification, the Government should actually make its own proposition that clarifies the overall picture of the landlines as well. I repeat that if it doesn't come, you're left with the impression that this area is forgotten or down-prioritized by the government parties, despite what they have forcefully claimed both in the budget debate and not least after the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e294	My contribution to clarification is in and of course what I have been in my main post. A decision was taken here in the Grand Duchy concerning the landlines. I've tried to follow it up to the best of my ability. I know that there has been some controversy in the public debate as to whether it was following up to the best of my ability, but I can assure the representative Sortevik that my message to the people of the department, when they were going to find out how we were going to follow this up in practice, was that we should stick to the Storting decision and intentions, and then find out the solution that was at least bad – at least bad! That's the message. That there could then arise a certain discussion about one or the other line, I might understand, but my best intention has been to do this in at least an evil way. Then, as Stortinget wants, I have said that we should come back to a more comprehensive assessment in the revised national budget. Besides, I don't actually have any plans. So when it comes to primary school exams, I want to make a proposition so that the primary school exams can be conducted this year as well. I've assessed this in a slightly different way. That is the explanation I can give, and I also feel that it is in line with the signals I have seen from Stortinget, but that has not always been quite easy to interpret – I guess – on the individual points.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e303	The starting point for this debate is the State budget for 2002. It is a fact that the government of Bondevik chose to cut the education and research budget by nearly 500 million. kr, and cancelled the promise to give the students more in scholarships. At that time, there was no funding for the country lines at all. This is the background step. In Stortingen’s efforts to secure the pledge given in terms of improving student funding, the majority managed to recover close to 110 million. kr to landlines, but there was a certain reduction from the existing level. In this there was no fundamentally negative attitude to the landlines. The majority of the population then also stressed that they considered the landline system to be important and that it was good for the scheme to continue. Furthermore, the majority asks for priority to be given to lines that are particularly costly or of national importance. At the same time, they believe that the Government needs to come back with an evaluation and overall review of the Landline Grant Scheme in the revised national budget for 2002. Here you have to include the starting point for the country line system. Several offers have gradually entered the scheme over the last few years without having assessed whether the scheme has worked after the purpose. Therefore, an evaluation and overall review makes sense. I think that the Council of State has shown little constructiveness in the follow-up to the budgetary position of the Stortinget. It's more like political obstruction. It did not take long for decisions in the Storting before political leadership went out and announced that the skyscrapers had to be put down. Additional playback points to an excessive drive to decrease lines due to the reduction in government support. An illustrative example of this is the scythe of the Hovden. One day, in the form of letters, they are told that the sky will lose the grant to all their 60 school places because of financial savings. Such a play naturally creates fear and uncertainty among employees and students. In such a process, I had at least expected a dialogue with the county council from the department. The KS and the county itself have been out proposing how individual offers can continue to be maintained despite a lower state contribution. I have recorded that Secretary of State Bergesen has wondered whether the bulk of the population has really understood the meaning of their cuts. It seems a little odd on the basis of the government's original budget proposal. In this case, there is at least a maximum need for an evaluation and overall review of the grant scheme. Our intention is that we should maintain the main features of today's offer on the basis of a dialogue with the county on financing solutions. If the Council of State burns in order to maintain all offers with existing funding arrangements, it must justify this and submit it to the Stortinget with a budget coverage that does not affect other important areas of education. The government has this opportunity in revision, and I can assure you that the Workers' Party will meet with that discussion with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e316	I have to be allowed to say that I think it is a strange interpellation that has been put forward here today. It's a good thing in life that when you make a political mistake, rule no. 1 that you do not talk about it and do not bring the error up again in the day. The thing is, first you cut the allocations to landlines by 30 million. NOK, you put in a comitology note that you really shouldn't reduce anything. And when the ministry does what the majority in the committee wanted them to do, you're dissatisfied. This testifies to a strange situation. All national lines are initially particularly costly or of national importance, otherwise we would not have had that system. The committee's comment to which reference is made is on a cut in the allocation that is almost impossible to implement without any consequences. It would've been weird if you could cut $30 million. kr to country lines and no one marked anything. When the budget setting is completed in late night hours, just before delivery, it is quick to do things that can be characterised as unlucky. We have witnessed that in this matter. Anger is a property that I don't want to criticize from this pulpit, but trying to push the problem for the decision in the committee over to the department, which is set to carry out an unspecified cut, I don't think anything about it. I think it is time for the majority of the committee to take responsibility and acknowledge the consequences of its decision. I also record that there are some proposals here from representatives who belonged to the majority of the committee on how this should actually be done. It would have been very good if you had clear ideas about how to do this, that you had put it into the committee's comments when you gave the budget position, and were not so much 'different'. Another thing that I have to answer to is a recurring theme that goes on that the government hadn't put money into national lines. We're going to remember that the financial committee's position had put in 139 million. the majority of the Committee on Churches, Education and Research cut it by 30 million. kr. This is a fact you can't get away from, and this is a fact you're trying to misplace. The appropriations have been reduced and there will be consequences. It's time to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e329	I noticed the strong tribute of the Council of State to the county council's ability to solve tasks. There's the Council of State and I actually agreed. I want to use this opportunity to look ahead: which organisational model is to be chosen for a training offer that has more than one group as a recording area. A little review shows that the last two governments wanted to remove the system of landlines. I choose to see the draft budgets as a prime position for the government not to be responsible for secondary education. So there's a majority to remove the system of landlines. The landlines are a complement to the county's own schemes with nationwide offers. I assume that the same batches that wanted to remove the system of landlines recognize that there is a need for offers that have several counties as an input area. In contrast to the national lines, the advantage of the nationwide lines is that they are based on agreements between county municipalities and the offers are advertised in the catalogues of the different counties. Many of the landlines are clearly in need, while others are an important complement to the ordinary county lines. It is therefore important that they are kept and developed further. I also want to stress that the county municipalities must be open to develop offers that are not always in the middle of the stream. Secondary schools need to be drivers to develop new offers. This actually has something to do with increasing competition from private, commercial education. The size has required the ministry to come back to revision with a plan for the future of the landlines. It is important that the Ministry of Labour has a good and close dialogue with the counties. Finding satisfactory economic conditions is crucial for the future of landlines. There's reason to remember that last year the state spent almost 140 million. on this offer. One cannot expect costs to be zero when the counties are to take over. I feel sure that those offers, the country lines, which have the right to life, will be maintained as nationwide if the money goes to the county municipalities. The government, which is concerned with efficiency and rational use of resources — and that is what the Council of State was also talking about — has the possibility of coordination which must clearly be in line with its programme declarations. This is an opportunity to go from word to action, but a clear premise is that the money has to go over to the county municipalities. Other proposals will be totally unacceptable for SV because they will hit the overall educational offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e342	The representative Sortevik, I think, gave a good idea of how the bulk of the population in this case feels about the government's handling of the landlines. Some of the main points are that the majority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, underlined the importance of the landlines and that the landlines are an important complement to the other offer in higher education. I feel that the department has been a little constructive in finding smooth ways to compensate for the cut of $30 million. kr as the majority of the population had to do in order to balance the budget. I wonder what strategy the Government had had when it cut the entire grant to the Landline Scheme in addition to its budget, i.e. they followed the Stoltenberg Government's proposal on this point. I would like the Council of State to respond now to the strategy they had in relation to the continuation of the country lines for which they thought separate grants were necessary. One important remark from the majority was that we asked the Government to provide a complete review of the national budget's national budget, and we actually assumed that lines were not to be laid down, but that maybe other ways of finding profit were to be used. What's common when you do a cut is to postpone investments, i.e. the equipment pot, which is actually quite big, and which would lead to the cut in student places and lines being less painful. But we are looking forward to a complete review of the national rail system in the context of the revised national budget. On the part of the Centre Party, we would like to stress that the Regional Line Scheme covers an important function in areas that are in fact of national importance and are not necessarily very costly compared to other lines operating under the County Municipality, for example. the lines of music you have in many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e349	The representative, Rikvam, who is also the head of the committee, showed us exactly where the ideological dividing lines go in this, which, in turn, may appear to be remarkable in relation to majority/minor constellations. The State shall not be responsible for secondary education, he said, it shall be situated in the counties. And it's clear that for a party that has one main purpose, to maintain the county council as a third – and quite unnecessary – administrative level, it's important to fight as obsessed that this mastodont still have something to do with, so that it has a small opportunity and credibility to have a life. The party of progress will have the counties gone. SV won't. In the case of landlines, the Council of State also mentioned that you could look at sports subjects, and that can be made quite clear. Nord-Trøndelag County has two skigymnas. One is on Meråker, with enormously good assumptions for running just that type of activity because there are snow there very long times of the year. The other is in Steinkjer. There are major meteorological differences in Steinkjer and Meråker. However, Steinkjer has an incredibly good environment for skiing, and has arranged Norway Championships in skis several times. Then we get lost in something more strange. We also have a large number of private high-schools here in the country that have an enormously high level, that deliver practitioners finished schooled who today take gold, and that we cheer over. Isn't it strange that we're going to have to have up to two skigymnas in one state, where one high school has optimal meteorological conditions to run its activity, while the other doesn't have it? The scoreboard said it wasn't our idea to remove anyone. It might make sense to go in and see if any of these lines of land shouldn't have the right of life because the meteorological conditions and other external conditions are not the best. In the case of a change in funding, as mentioned by the Council of State, this is very good. We've been talking about it for many, many years, that the money should follow the student. A changed organization, it's incredibly interesting, but it might have been good to get it into a proposition along with the distribution of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e362	I have been a little hesitant about whether or not I should be participating in the debate today. But after hearing a little bit both on the interpellant's posts and on the debate, I have to say that I'm a little surprised by the interpellant, and not least I think it also expresses a rather unclear political idea. When I hear what more of these parties have said today, I note that the Progress Party wants to continue the landline system, but then preferably through a state-owned earmarked funding, SV prefers to put it under county responsibility as a nation-wide offer, the Workers' Party would rather do so with reference to the Stoltenberg government, but will assess this further, and the Center Party will not put down lines, but wants alternative funding. For me and the Christian People's Party, it is then important to stress that we believe that there is a need for country lines with state operating subsidies, simply because the landlines have a cross-border approach from across the country. There are particularly expensive offers, and there are offers that you cannot expect to find in each state. I also believe that in the future there will be a need to assess the dimensioning of landline services and their regional distribution. The Council of State may point out that a regional line structure and the funding can act as a preservative in the supply it offers. But it's also a little bit up to what thoughts and what will the Greatness there expresses. The Christian People's Party disagreed with the cut made by the majority of 30 million. kr. We knew that this cut would have consequences, and it has also led to that if the states continue these offers as nationwide offers, the counties have not been compensated by offers. The counties are therefore subject to an increased financial burden of 30 million. kr on the current year’s budget by continuing such a nationwide offer. I am pleased that the county councils now seem to want to maintain the offers for nationwide offers, but I am sorry that they do not receive any compensation for this in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e376	Policies are priorities. It's taking from something and giving to something else. This was also the first government budget treatment for me, but I get a little tired when representatives have not quite understood that cuts also have consequences, so if you like the activity verbally in comments. It is possible that it is not constructive to have as a task to communicate to others that things are cut, but dialogue and constructive input to cut does not provide any more money. It would have been more ok if those who have actually cut had said what they should have cut, and if the council had done something wrong, what should have been cut instead. The representative of the Skjärlaa gets the most imaginative here -- you have to cut without cutting anyway. You have to figure out 30 million. kr elsewhere. Then I wonder why they were not found initially, when you wanted to cut. And how are you going to be able to cut half classes with that class structure and with the way we teach in Norway today? It's actually quite difficult. Then I think that Rikvam is raising a much more honest and interesting debate in relation to the future and in the question of how we're going to do this in the future, say if there's a certain contradiction in the post, namely that a cut in this post is unacceptable to SV. I have also learned a lot from this budgetary procedure as a 'first traveler'. But the left has said clearly all along that we want to have this type of study offer. We don't just want the streamlined students, who go into the general field and go out at the other end. We voted against this cut, but we want to look forward to having a debate on how to keep these study offers to these students in the most secure way possible. But I have to admit that I think maybe this debate was not a highlight for the Committee's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e387	It is claimed that there are at least two policies. One is symbolism, and the other is real policy. When you hear the representative of the Central Party who underlined the importance of national lines through the majority decision to cut 30 million. At best, it must be a form of symbolism policy, when at the same time it is assumed that no lines are to be laid down. If you want to implement real-life policies, it also costs money in Norwegian political reality, and then you have to be willing to prioritize funds for what you really want to implement. I think the department has had a difficult job with the assumptions that were put in here, and that several have given, that you should both cut and you should maintain all the offers, no one should notice any changes, and then you should save 30 million. kr at the same time. From the point of view of defining what is nationwide, which is of national importance and which is most costly, I think that the best solution that the ministry could come up with is the situation. Having said that, I think that both the Committee's chair, Mr Rikvam, the inter-pellant and others here have made constructive contributions in terms of looking ahead, because that is what this is all about. If we want the landline system to be maintained, we must agree on it in the future as well. With the signals given here, both from the inter-pellant that he is willing to be involved and give priority to more money, which this boils down to the end, to the national liner system, and from the committee's chairman on the same subject, I think that a foundation has been laid that is also Right-wing, based on the need that we have to give these offers to the students. And then, in a majority configuration, we get to get the necessary appropriations in place when this matter comes back. I also think that we should have an open mind about how this should be organised, whether it should be organised as today, organised in cooperation with the county councils or organised in cooperation with individual municipalities. But the important thing is in any case, regardless of the form of organisation, that we ensure that these lines have sufficient sustainable and good funding that makes this both predictable and credible for the students to apply for, and for the users we have of the landline system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e396	Initially, I will certainly reject the claim that we are now trying to cover up a mistake, and also reject the claim that there is a vague political idea behind the interpellation. On the contrary, the interpellant is trying to get two major points. One is that the cuts actually, in the opinion of the interpellant, are done bad. The Council of State used the expression that it had done ‘minimum evil’. At least some of us feel that it's actually done bad -- stencil, square, bureaucratic. The council formulated it as if it had given cracking signals. If it is that the Council of State believes there have been cracking signals, it would have been possible to come back to the majority of the committee and take a poll, taken a reading of what these signals were like to perceive. Then I have tried to communicate that this is a deadline out and goes for those who are applying for an entire school year, and that the school year deviates from the calendar year. Then it's actually a deadline, 1 March, which it's important to deal with. I have still not received an answer in relation to that. That's also why I have drawn a parallel to the other two battles that the government wants to take, about money for exams and not least about money for performances, where it is strongly underlined that it is important to have a quick clarification in time. In fact, it is also important, in time, for those students who wish to apply on part of these lines for the 2002–03 school year and who have a time limit of 1 March this year, to obtain clarification. Finally, my call is that an initiative be taken by the Council of State, either for a conversation, for an orientation, or even better: a rapid proposition, so that we can clarify the financial situation for the near future. That's what matters to students and parents. So this is the school year 2002–03.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e405	I don't think there's any point in repeating what's happened. The truth is that this cut wasn't accompanied by any very special references about how it was going to happen, or how the cut was to be taken, either in the setting or in the budget debate we had, and I stand firm by doing my best to do this in the least bad way. I'll say it that way because it'll always affect someone when you're going to do a cut of 30 million. kr. I have tried to justify this today. I accept that someone thinks it is bad, but even today I have not registered any very specific alternative ways to do it. On the other hand, I have noted with interest the part of the debate that has been about the future and possible future forms of organisation and funding for these small lines and subjects that then need to be established and co-ordinated across county borders, including among others. the posts of the representatives of Rikvam, Lyngstad and Interpellanten. And just to make it clear one more time: I believe that the majority is prepared to discuss this in the context of the revised national budget, when we come back to the matter with a more comprehensive assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e414	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-14.ana.ud692e425	There is no record.
