ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e30	The representatives Ursula Evje and Eirin Fallet, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called representative of the state of Troms, Synnøve Søndergaard, has taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the State of More and Romesdal, Rigmor Andersen Eide, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad from 5 November to 7 November, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate, Svein Atle Roseth, is proposed to meet during leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Svein Atle Roseth is present and wants to take a seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Ingmar Liones from 5 November onwards and until further notice from the representative Eli Sollied Överaas on welfare leave from 5 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Pål Kårbø For Møre and Romsdal counties: Ola T. Heggem3. Pål Kårbø is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ingmar Liones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e93	Pål Kårbø is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e98	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e103	I'd like to propose Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e108	Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents for today's meeting. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected as vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e116	The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e120	On behalf of the representatives of Rune J. Skjellaaen, Kent Inge Stenberg Ryen and myself, I allow myself to propose the establishment of a system of daily distribution of free fruit and vegetables to all students in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e125	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e137	In the Sem Declaration, the Government announced an increased focus on environmental and development issues. We've followed up on this. Among other things, we have the provision of information on key environmental areas such as climate and sea. We have promoted an action plan on the fight against poverty, and we have advocated a significant increase in the aid budget. We have also presented a national sustainable development strategy to highlight the overall challenges facing Norway from a 20-year perspective. The government's ambitions in these important areas were the starting point for our efforts at the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. Extensive international cooperation on sustainable development has been established since the first launch of the concept by the World Commission on the Environment and Development in the 1980s. The Commission report ‘Our common future’ made it clear that economic growth had to take place within the ecological framework of the earth. Important links were also made between social development and the environment. These are questions that are still relevant today. The Brundtland report provided the basis for the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. The results of the Rio Conference are well known. World leaders agreed on a global action plan for the 21st century, Agenda 21. The Rio Conference also brought with it binding international agreements in key areas such as climate and biodiversity, desertification and chemicals. In 2000, the UN General Assembly adopted the Millennium Declaration on how to meet the new challenges we face in the new millennium. A set of thousand-year targets was adopted, including in the context of the environment and sustainable development. In 2001, the Nordic Prime Ministers and the political leaders of the autonomous areas adopted the strategy «Sustainable development – a new course for the Nordic region». At the Nordic Council meeting in Helsinki last week, we were confirmed that the follow-up to the strategy is well under way. Through this 20-year strategy, we will ensure a regional follow-up to the global sustainable development objectives. So has the world become a better place in the last ten years since the Rio Conference? In many areas there is progress in development and the environment. In most developing countries, primary school coverage is improved, child mortality is reduced and life expectancy is increasing. World consumption of ozone-depleting substances has been reduced. In our own region, we have managed to reduce acid rain and long-distance air pollution. Nevertheless, major challenges remain. Global warming and climate change make some areas dry and infertile, while others flood. Deforestation continues and biodiversity is weakened. Water resources are under pressure and fish stocks are overestimated. Over a billion people in the world live on less than one dollar a day. New diseases, such as AIDS, have arisen, while old diseases, such as malaria and tuberculosis, persist. In many sub-Saharan Africa, life expectancy has fallen sharply in recent years. Differences between the rich and the poorest are increasing. Today, we have good knowledge of environmental and development issues. We know more about causality and what is needed to ensure sustainable development. The world community has negotiated many good agreements and intentions. But there is also much left, not least on the implementation side. We must ensure that words become action. One important purpose of the Johannesburg Summit, 10 years after Rio, was just to revitalise the global commitment to sustainable development. Norway argued that the Johannesburg Summit had to promote the link between poverty and the environment and help to strengthen the fight against poverty. We wanted a plan for global joint action with clear priorities, objectives and deadlines. And we agreed that the UN's leading role in sustainable development should be strengthened. The government stressed that the Norwegian preparation process should be broad and inclusive. We had close and good cooperation with non-governmental organisations and the non-governmental sector. We worked systematically towards the media and went out with information about the summit and Norwegian positions. Representatives from Stortinget, Sametinget, LO, NHO, the Central Association of Local Authorities, the National Council of Norwegian Children’s and Youth Organisations and various other organisations were present in Johannesburg and contributed actively. The government also built alliances internationally with like-minded countries, the host country and the UN. This was not least important prior to the summit. The last negotiating meeting before the summit had shown us that there were many countries that had difficulties in taking on concrete commitments. The real negotiations came, among other things: Therefore, late in operation. The negotiation situation on the summer led us to travel to Johannesburg with the aim of preventing backsliding from the results of previous UN conferences. But we also had ambitious goals of contributing to progress in new areas. We feared considerable backwardness when it came to agreeing to the key principle, such as: maintain the var-principle. Fortunately, we avoided this. I would also like to highlight the importance of preventing, together with others, a formulation that could have been interpreted in the sense that the WTO rules would be superior to other international agreements in the field of the environment and development. It is an important principle that trade legislation and other agreements should be equivalent and mutually supportive. The summit also made progress in important areas. Water and sanitation were a high priority area from the Norwegian side. Unclean water and poor sanitation are taking the lives of many people today. In Johannesburg, countries committed themselves to halving the proportion of people who do not have access to sanitary services by 2015. An action programme shall be drawn up to achieve these objectives. This is something that will mean a lot too many poor people. The loss of biodiversity is alarming. Every year, some of the natural ecosystems disappear, and it is the poor that are hit hardest. The entire 60 pst. by the poorest people in the world live in ecologically vulnerable areas. In Johannesburg, countries committed themselves to a significant reduction in loss of species diversity by 2010. There was also agreement to negotiate an international regime for the fair distribution of dividends from the use of genetic resources. For Norway, it was important that the environmental and health hazards of chemicals should be minimised by 2020. In this area, too, the poorest are the most vulnerable. Norway fought for such chemicals to be phased out, but was nevertheless satisfied that a concrete and committed reduction objective was agreed. Norway helped focus on the health and environmental damage from heavy metals and the need for international action in this area. Chemical interventions are also important in terms of the state of the environment in our own neighbourhoods. Maritime decisions make an important contribution to the long-term effort to make sustainable use of marine resources. It was agreed that defrosted stocks should be rebuilt as soon as possible. We are also pleased that the text establishes concrete deadlines for the implementation of key international guidelines for responsible fishing. Another important issue for Norway was the call for the implementation of ecosystem-based management by 2010. This is in line with the basic principles of Norwegian fisheries policy. A pleasant event at the summit was that China, Russia, Canada and India announced that they have recently ratified or intend to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. This is an important step forward, which means that the protocol will be able to come into force even without countries like the United States and Australia. Here, too, we achieved a breakthrough in the negotiations, when we agreed on a text that strongly encourages other countries to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. The summit helped to raise awareness of the importance of agriculture for poverty reduction, sustainable development and, in particular, the fight against hunger and malnutrition. One of the most important follow-up points in this context will be further efforts to develop the right to food. The final document of the summit confirmed individual countries’ commitment to significant increases in their assistance provided at the Conference on Financing for Development, which took place in Monterrey this year. It is important that the United States also commits itself here to increased assistance. Another important cross-cutting issue concerns production and consumption patterns. In this area, it was decided to develop a framework for 10-year action programmes. In some areas, we don't have the same reason to be satisfied with the result. Energy was one of them. More than two billion people do not have access to modern energy supplies, which is a fundamental prerequisite for development. Energy is also closely linked to the climate problem. Norway worked to achieve a target of increasing the global share of renewable energy to at least 15 pst. by 2010. We also proposed a target of 10 pst. new renewable energy sources on a global basis by 2010. In addition, we want an action programme to increase access to energy for the poorest. None of these objectives came true. Together with, among others: The EU and the candidate countries for the EU, Brazil, Iceland, Switzerland and New Zealand have been in favour of a separate initiative aimed at increasing the global share of renewable energy and at promoting investment and developing renewable energy markets. In the area of natural resource management, there was also a worse result than what was requested from Norway. The objective of turning the trend in the deterioration of natural resources by 2015 fell. Nor is the reference to the need for an ecosystem approach satisfactory with Norwegian eyes. The social dimension — including employee rights — was not given the place we wanted. However, Norway contributed to the respect of the gender perspective. Norway also promoted a number of proposals on the specific role and situation of indigenous peoples. An important breakthrough was that indigenous groups were referred to as their own peoples in the political declaration, a recognition that is of importance to the rights of indigenous peoples as a group. We called for good governance at national and international level as an important prerequisite for sustainable development. The summit helped to consolidate sustainable development as a general principle of the UN. It was decided to continue working on a global system of governance in the field of the environment as part of the forthcoming debate on the organisation of UN work in the economic and social field. Unfortunately, there was no agreement on the monitoring mechanisms we wanted to ensure the follow-up to the summit decisions. The summit called for the involvement of the non-governmental sector in the work on sustainable development. It was suggested that the so-called partnership initiatives should form a central part of the results of the summit. These were defined as voluntary cooperation between different actors such as drug users. countries, international organisations, non-governmental organisations, local authorities, businesses and financial institutions to implement actions contributing to the objectives of the summit. At the summit, the UN developed a framework for partnership initiatives in the main fields of water, energy, health, agriculture and biodiversity. Norway will continue its work on sustainable development partnerships. One might wonder if such large resource-intensive meetings are the most appropriate tools for strengthening the UN's work on sustainable development and other key issues. Processes are complicated and resource-intensive. At the same time, they have contributed to raising important issues on the international political agenda and strengthening the normative role of the UN. I believe that in order to achieve the Community's objectives, we must work through the multilateral system. We must ensure that poverty reduction, sustainable development and other fundamental issues are also discussed in the course of the debate at the highest political level. Norway will take an active part in the international discussions on the organisation and follow-up of the major UN conferences. We need to ensure that the entire multilateral system is actively involved in the follow-up to the summits. The international financial institutions were not as closely involved in the preparations for the Johannesburg Summit as Norway wanted and worked for. This is all the more important now in the follow-up. The significance of the summit will depend on the actual follow-up of the results. This applies both nationally and internationally. Internationally, the Government will focus in particular on the follow-up work of the vis-à-vis the United Nations system. A key objective will be the integration of sustainable development work into the UN's overall effort to address development and poverty with the Millennium Goals as a headline. The UN must contribute to similar co-ordination at country level so that sustainable development is taken into account as part of the poverty-oriented development strategies of the countries. The results of the Johannesburg Summit must be followed up in a number of international cooperation processes, and I mention the following: The government places great emphasis on the development dimension of WTO work, i.e. in the World Trade Organisation. Furthermore, it is important to maintain the principle that trade legislation and other agreements should be equivalent and mutually supportive and that there should be no hierarchy between environmental agreements and international trade legislation. The government's aim is that the WTO's new round of negotiations should also be an important contribution to the fight against poverty and sustainable development. We will work towards increased market access in general and for environmentally friendly goods and services.We will continue to work to ensure the implementation of the global environmental conventions. Also regionally and within the OECD, the Government will press for the follow-up of the Johannesburg commitments.In the international follow-up to the summit, we will actively participate in the coalition on renewable energy sources. The aim is to achieve a significant increase in the global share of renewable energy sources. We will follow up on the leadership given to promote investment and develop markets for such energy. A first meeting of this coalition has already been held.An important area in the follow-up to the summit will be in the chemical field. We want to strengthen international chemical management, including in relation to heavy metals. The government will work to strengthen the UN Environment Programme and international environmental management.We will support the international work for transparency on government revenue from business outsourcing and management, among others. mineral resources and petroleum resources.We will be actively involved when the UN marks the International Water Year next year and Japan is the host country of a global Ministerial Conference on the Management of World Water Resources. In Johannesburg we again confirmed the vision of a binding North-South partnership, as expressed in the UN Millennium Declaration and in the document of the Monterrey Conference. This is a good Norwegian development policy, to which Stortinget has also agreed. It is this perspective that underpins the action plan on the fight against poverty in the south, as presented by the Government in March, and on which the Stortinget was briefed, inter alia. on the April presentation of development policy. From the UN Presidency in Johannesburg, I promised 375 million. Dr over three years in additional funds for the follow-up to the action plan from the summit. The increased appropriations now proposed by the Government of the State budget for 2003, we want, in particular, to be linked to the follow-up in the areas of renewable energy, natural resource management, agriculture and biodiversity. Health is already an important focus of Norwegian development cooperation. This will also focus on measures for better water and sanitary conditions. We will contribute to an international promise for the destruction of health-threatening chemicals. This is a major environmental and poverty problem, including: in many African countries. Much of the Norwegian follow-up to the Johannesburg Summit in the field of development policy will have to be done at country level in our regular cooperation with developing countries. I think it is important not to deviate from the principles and practices that have made Norwegian development cooperation an effective tool in the fight against poverty. The key words here are the real ownership of the co-operation countries for their own development process and the country's own governance of the partnership with donor countries. The government will also follow up the Johannesburg Summit at national level. The national sustainable development strategy, presented before the Johannesburg Summit, is the beginning of a long-term process of creating a sustainable society. As part of the presentation of the 2004 National Budget, the Government will present an action plan for the implementation of the sustainability strategy, in the form of a National Agenda 21. Local government, business and organisations will be invited to participate in the process. Conferences will be held to ensure broad participation in the process. We already have good experience from the work on Local Agenda 21 on which we will draw alternates. The objective is that work on National Agenda 21 will contribute to a coherent and systematic follow-up to the results of Johannesburg at national level. National efforts will be concentrated in several areas. This applies, inter alia, to: resource management, including fisheries, follow-up of international environmental agreements, biodiversity, enlargement and renewable energy sources, as well as the chemical field. Over 100 Heads of State or Government were present in Johannesburg. It shows that world leaders continue to give priority to sustainable development. The summit was also subject to widespread interest in the media and most of the people. We set high targets for the Johannesburg Summit. These were not achieved, but we got good results in some areas. We also had to defend several important previously adopted principles. The global challenges remain significant. The summit has given us a common starting point for further targeted work on poverty reduction, sustainable production and consumption, as well as sustainable management of natural resources. The summit has mobilised a political will to steer progress in the right direction. This political will must be maintained and strengthened in order to translate the commitments into tangible results. This is what the Government will be actively working for in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e257	By reference to Rule 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a final statement from the Prime Minister. No objections to this procedure have been raised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e260	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. It is useful for the Stortinget to hear the Government’s assessments of what has been achieved at the UN Summit in Johannesburg. It was important to confirm the principles of the Rio Conference, but of course it would not have been a sufficient result of the Johannesburg Conference. That is why it was necessary for us to make progress in several areas, and I would like to praise the Government for helping to make the results of the conference the best possible. However, the most important work lies ahead of us. Follow-up to the conference is now in progress. Norway, as a nation, must contribute actively in international forums to the achievement of the Johannesburg objectives, and we must help to increase understanding of the issues we did not reach. While working internationally on these questions, we also have to make sure that we do what is necessary to follow up here at home. There's little point in having a high profile internationally if we don't work together to do the work that's going to be done nationally. There is broad agreement in Norway on the positions and positions expressed by the Government at the Johannesburg Summit. It is also an expression that the fight against poverty and the fight for sustainable development have broad support in this process. But let me just reflect a little bit about two questions that I think are important, which also illustrates both the consensus and to some extent the disagreement about a point. One is that in the past there was a great deal of controversy about the starting point for climate negotiations, namely the idea of joint implementation, on quota trading and on so-called new mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When we worked with the Rio Conference and the Kyoto Agreement at the beginning of the 1990s, this mechanism – quota trading and joint implementation – was a major issue in the Norwegian economy too. Fortunately, there has been a broad consensus internationally and in Norway that trading in allowances and joint implementation are crucial instruments for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. It is an expression that progress is being made, even though, in my opinion, it took an unnecessary time to establish an international agreement, but also an unnecessary long time to establish a national agreement that trading in allowances and joint implementation is not a way of purchasing from commitments, but a very effective instrument to reduce total emissions. Now there's a consensus about that. The problem is that the United States is reluctant to join, and that other countries are reluctant to implement, but the principles of joint implementation and quota trading have been widely endorsed. The second thing I want to mention is that during the summit, the President of France, Jacques Chirac, came out with a play on introducing solidarity taxes on wealth created by globalisation. It is an idea that the Labour Party and social democrats around the world have supported on different occasions, whether it is a global tax on arms trade, currency speculation, global resource use or other forms of global taxation. It is, of course, demanding to implement these types of instruments, but if successful, even small tax rates could provide large international revenues to finance the fight against poverty, to finance the fight for sustainable development and to build a stronger international community. This is why the Labour Party believes that, in addition to Norway being in the first place in increasing assistance, and that we need to have pressure on other countries to increase their assistance, we must not reject, but on the contrary welcome, for example, the fact that there is a need to increase their assistance. France recommends that efforts should be made to create different forms of UN global funding mechanisms, of the fight against poverty, of the fight for sustainable development. This is an idea that is controversial, but it should have Norway's support because it could provide a funding basis for the important work we do internationally. More money is needed. That is why a global solidarity tax is an idea that has the support of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e275	Like the previous speaker, let me thank the Prime Minister for a good and broad presentation on the Johannesburg Summit. The government parties already announced in the Sem Declaration that increased focus on environmental and development issues was important for this government. The Prime Minister's statement shows that these promises are being followed up in a good way. Global and regional environmental problems can only be solved through binding international agreements. I would therefore like to commend the Government for showing it in Johannesburg as one of the strongest champions of an ambitious and responsible global environmental policy. While many other countries fought for narrow, national interests, the Norwegian government took the world's environmental challenges seriously and made it clear that we are going to solve them, we have to put away national captors and instead show international responsibility. Norway alone cannot guarantee binding international environmental agreements. That is why it is well done by the Government, through cooperation with other countries with similar interests with us, to be able to get a majority in Johannesburg for views in important areas that went a long way towards the positions of the Norwegian Government and the Stortinge. An example of this was that the government was able to have a majority in order for the environment not to be subject to global trade rules, as many other countries originally wanted. It is important, as the Prime Minister states, that trade legislation and other agreements should be equivalent and mutually supportive. Had the principle of subjugating the environment to global trade rules emerged, it would be difficult to impose eco-labelling because this could be claimed to be a trade barrier. Eco-labelling is important because the release and use of chemicals is one of the main threats to biodiversity. Many of the chemicals are also dangerous to humans, and they are often used in the poorest countries in the world. A global eco-labelling system is important precisely because knowledge in this area is one of the threats in this area. I would also like to draw up the decisions for the sea areas. Sustainable exploitation of maritime resources is very important for Norway as a fishing nation. I am therefore pleased with the international call to implement ecosystem-based management, which is a fundamental principle for the fisheries policy of Norway. Environment and development are closely linked. The Prime Minister made this clear. In Johannesburg, we confirmed the vision of a binding partnership between the south and the north. Here, as the Prime Minister correctly said, there is a lot of good Norwegian development policy. The Johannesburg Summit was a step forward to solve the world's environmental and poverty problems, a small step in relation to the ambitions of the Government for international environmental efforts and the fight against poverty, but it is, after all, a step forward and not a step backwards, as many had feared in advance. This is due not least to Norwegian efforts. There is therefore every reason to commend the Government for its efforts to work in Johannesburg. The challenge will be to follow up the summit also at national level. Here the Prime Minister warns of continued offensive policies through a sustainable development action plan and the continuation of the current high level of assistance. This implies that the offensive environmental and development policy of the Government has shown and captured during the Johannesburg Summit will be followed up in the coming years. It is joyful both for the environment and not least for the poorest people in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e294	It is difficult in one word to give a characteristic of the Johannesburg Summit. Johannesburg was a bit of everything – a little good, a little bad and not least a little of each. Perhaps some of the main problem lies here: the Johannesburg World Summit was simply too large, too ambitious and too wide in relation to themes. Very simplified and pointed, you could say you tried to solve everything that was bad in the world, but ended up with crumbs. This was probably not unexpected, not least for all those who know how such UN conferences work, but it was probably disappointing and discouraging for many fires and born optimists who believed in the pre-advertisement. The positive thing is that nobody has proposed a follow-up conference. With regard to the concrete results, it is clear that what was achieved in terms of improving sanitary conditions is important and can really be life-giving to millions in the Third World. And as the BBC said, this is the jewel in the crown of the summit. On the plus side there are also a number of other issues, which the Prime Minister explained well, which may have a minor impact on the world's population, overall. From the Norwegian side, it has been taken as a defeat that we did not achieve any concrete results in terms of the use of renewable energy. The demand for this was primarily made by the European countries, with strong support from the environmental movement, to work for it. The reason for the defeat was attributed in most media, among others. The United States, Japan, Canada, Australia and Saudi Arabia, but the fact is that here neither did the developing countries in Africa, in Asia and in Latin America want any agreement. Instead of concrete renewable energy targets, a text that was more concerned with economic growth came from the recognition that Africans and Asians have a major need to strengthen their economy with energy that is relatively cheap and not least easily available. Therefore, the Progress Party does not feel that it is a problem that Norway did not win the fight for renewable energy sources, because if we did, as we see it, it would have been an obstacle to economic growth and prosperity in the third world. And if it's an instrument that's proven to be effective in the fight for a better environment, it's just economic growth. Another blow fought in Johannesburg was whether environmental agreements should be subject to WTO trade rules. This was not the case, and a Norwegian victory was proclaimed here by a combined Norwegian press agency. Now we don't think it's necessarily so important whether it's like the WTO and environmental agreements are equal rather than being a priority, but how we interpret this at home, and how we intend to use it, is absolutely important. Then it is with disappointment that a representative from the Ministry of Agriculture said to the evening post on 4 September that this decision is an indirect support to the Norwegian position on strong border protection. Another practical result that is not to the delight of the poor or Norwegian consumers of the earth! What, in the opinion of the Progress Party, was most discouraging and disappointing with Johannesburg was the absence of commitments on a more liberalized and fair world trade. Once the fight against poverty was put firmly on the agenda, it is disappointing to note that it was not possible to raise this issue up and down, despite the fact that protectionism in the rich world costs the poor world at least DKK 700 billion a year in lost income. It's not easy to see how, for example. The EU works to avoid dealing as a topic. However, we did not see Norway lifting very many fingers to escape the developing world. Some NGOs tried to get to a debate, but almost no one took up the glove. Therefore, Johannesburg did not become the promising meeting it could have been. There was too much the rich world’s continuing need to protect itself and safeguard its peculiar national interests. Chirac encouraged everyone to put away national thought and focus on the global. It would have been great! But what did Chirac himself do to contribute? For those who have followed French positions in international negotiations, it is not surprising that Chirac's words felt infinitely empty and meaningless, and therefore they became to me a sort of summary of what I experienced in Johannesburg – a lot of words and little action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e309	We know that many of the changes that are going on in the world are in political processes that have to happen in most countries in the south. There are many politicians who need to get more right on their local population. Perhaps the most eye-catching thing that happened in Johannesburg was that South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, was told that one should use and recognise the overcrowd of global apartheid, and that one is now quite clearly some that there are at least some who are being sidelined out. The poor are kept out, women are kept out, etc. One has at least got it into the work. And then it was Henrik Tikkanen who said that if you're going to change the world, you can start with yourself with great advantage. It applies to many African politicians, but it applies not least to Norway as well. We have many challenges in terms of energy and the environment. We have the resources, we have the knowledge. It's not on any of the material things, but it may be primarily on the will to get to work in relation to Local Agenda 21 and then the new thing that's coming - National Agenda 21. It's a pleasure to be able to boast of a government council — there aren't so many councillors you can boast of today — and a prime minister too. That's why I found it a little sad that we didn't get this up in a full debate. I thought it was in the cards that we should have a full debate with lines and properly chose us with a little brilliance and rejoiced over a big case for Norway. I didn't protest, but the next time this comes up, I thought we'd have an even better debate on this. It is such an important matter for Norway that we can tolerate taking a long debate on it. It is good that Norway uses the position in Johannesburg that was invited us by the UN, since we are not a member of the EU, to be able to prevent WTO trade rules from overstepping environmental agreements. Many have commented that in sum it is a pity that the best thing to say about it is that it did not get worse. Norway was good at defensive defence work, but we didn't target. We know it from Rio, the so-called Agenda 21, the global action plan for the environment and development of this century, where each country should be able to follow up this plan with national policies for sustainable development and to make concrete how to implement the Commission's slogan to think globally and act locally. But with Brundtland's government as the first, the governments have subsequently failed in this follow-up. And even if there are some points of light, there is so far no local Agenda 21 produced in Norway. The Government of Stoltenberg is working on a national resource strategy. Bondevik II continued this work, but it had to be revised just before we went to the Environment Summit in Johannesburg. Only now after the Johannesburg Conference will work on a national action plan begin. The Government has promised to submit it together with the national budget for 2004. So 13 years after Rio, we're going to have a National Agenda 21. I expect that in this action plan, one of the objectives of this action plan will be concrete and numerative in all the areas where there was no consensus in Johannesburg – especially in those areas where Norway was most ambitious. In addition, there is a special responsibility on the Government to make the agenda wide and inclusive, and not to allow such an inter-ministerial obligation to enter into the nearest archive drawer! The option must be an action plan that ultimately has the power to regulate the regular political planning and budgetary processes in a more resilient direction, and that also requires a wide range of actors in society. I'll take a little example from Molde. There's a big garbage filling that's one that's got to be rid of methane gas on it. Similarly, the Post, a state agency, was to build a very regional centre – a huge building. Then the municipal politicians wrote to the municipal waste company: Is Posten interested in using this gas? The letter was sent, but it was never answered. It's going to cost not to answer such letters, because that's where we're going to be concrete. That is where we, as politicians, must lead. We see in many cases that business has even come much further than we national politicians. However, we need to facilitate the implementation of the provisions, so that both business and people are able to get the most into the concrete version of National Agenda 21. The alternative to following up on the track will be a replication of the tragedy after Rio: Well home again drowned the global thinking of fossil national politics. Of this, there will be little local action. What we do internationally is important. But so important is the work we do in Norway. In Norway, there are very many for Local Agenda 21 and National Agenda 21. But no one knows what it is, while a lot of people are doing it. There's what politicians have to follow up and make the political decisions that are going to make for people to make an effort. It's not the will of most people it's on. It is our political capacity that needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e326	To the representative’s little heartache about the format of the debate, the President will allow himself to point out that experience is not always such that a debate gets better the longer it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e329	I thank the Prime Minister for a good deal from the UN Summit. There is no secret that efforts to achieve sustainable development have been disappointing since the Rio Summit and that the challenges ahead of Johannesburg were many. Poverty has increased. We are facing major environmental problems, and countries have shown little willingness for concrete action and promises. Despite these setbacks and difficulties, the Norwegian delegation had great ambitions to get an actionable result from the Johannesburg Summit. Norway therefore played an active driver role in order to achieve this. Our broadcasts saw that the summit was a great opportunity to promise the work of sustainable development in the future. I would therefore like to commend Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, Minister for Development Hilde Frafjord Johnson and Minister for the Environment Børge Burnde. Their efforts prevented setbacks in environmental work, and they made some important progress. In Johannesburg, Norway was seen on the map, and because of our people, we achieved concrete results. It was Norway that went in the brink to prevent environmental agreements from being interpreted as subordinating the WTO rules in the field of trade. The head of the United Nations Development Programme went to the unusual step of commenting on individual countries when he claimed that several countries were like Norway. He said that Norway's Minister of Development turned the entire conference when he was about to go in the wrong direction. In Johannesburg, Norway fights for EU countries' problems, and we had a great deal of freedom of action. It shows that even if we're a small country, we can change positions and get multiple solutions. Progress in environmental work has a major impact on the world's poorest. This government has the fight against poverty as its prime task. We know that today it is the poorest that are particularly affected by environmental problems and poor management of natural resources. In Johannesburg, Norway agreed to put the search light on the link between poverty, the environment and development. Norway focused specifically on natural resource management, including agriculture and water, energy, health and the environment. As the Prime Minister said, a lot has happened in these areas. Among other things, life expectancy in developing countries has increased, and illiteracy and infant mortality are reduced. We are seeing progress, and Norway has been contributing to this. But evolution is not good enough. Still, over a billion people live in extreme poverty, and the difference between poor and rich increases. That the 20 richest percentages of Earth's population use over 80 pst. of the world's gross domestic product, while the poorest 20 pst. only runs over 2 pst., making a viable development impossible. We are rich who are the greatest environmental threat. The one-rich billionth of the world's population accounts for most of the emissions of substances that are precursors, whether they are CO2, NOx or other substances. The OECD countries must therefore take greater responsibility. In Johannesburg, a number of concrete promises and objectives were sought in order to promote the environment and to prevent poverty. One arrived at some new agreements to prevent poverty and environmental degradation. It was decided that the number of people without toilet and sewage systems should be halved by 2015. If this agreement is followed up, around a billion people will have access to sanitary facilities and half a billion more will have access to clean drinking water. Are we so satisfied with the results of Johannesburg? Johannesburg has been criticised for the lack of results in terms of effort, late in a chronicle in the Evening Post yesterday. No, one can't be content. When a new target of how much, or when to increase the part of renewable energy, was not reached when an agreement on the obligation to stop the loss of the number of species was reached, and when a non-obligation to stop the use and production of environmentally harmful chemicals could not be satisfied. We wanted more, but there's reason to say that the pessimists who warn the government against participating at a high level, who warn that one would not achieve anything, they were wrong. It tells us that we're not going to go right on the pessimist, but we're actually going to get to right on the optimists and put the goal after that. And then to a relationship that the representative Stoltenberg brought up – that with the Tobin tax. We must not reject that in principle, but at the same time we must not allow countries such as France to ignore the important work that is going on and to have it as their special area. It is necessary to work on it, but good work rules are in progress. This work must continue in the areas where we are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e344	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a full and good presentation. He said that he was initially concerned about the goal, that the goal simply had to be to prevent backsliding. Now, fortunately, there was progress in many areas, and really it would be amazing to think of something else. There are always many critical voices rising, and at the latest in the evening post yesterday there was an article asking whether the UN conference in Johannesburg was ‘unreasonable use of time and money’. Criticisms have also been raised in the past from the media and from various organisations about the conference. But what's the point? What is the best use of time and money? And not least: how should a person draw attention and shed light on major serious global issues? The bottleneck to get something done properly is, of course, money and political will to go the same way. The conference pressed in the right direction. It must therefore be important that issues of this magnitude are discussed at the highest political level in the world. After the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development, no one can say that we are unaware of the world's enormous challenges. We were also clearly presented that sustainable development means breadth. Both social, ecological and economic conditions shall be taken into account. Climate policy and poverty reduction are serious issues. Clean water is important and seaworthy for us. One may be thirsty just to think that one does not have it! In developing countries, almost 3.5 million die each year. human – seven times the population of Oslo – due to water-related diseases. The summit was known to halve the number of people who do not have satisfactory drinking water and usable sanitary conditions by 2015. The Johannesburg press, after the meeting, said that the visions were great and the objectives were comprehensive, but doubted the will and capacity to do something with them. Rich countries have a duty to help more than they do. I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it: the Central Party is pleased that the Government is adding up to a real increase in the aid budget, and in this context I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Aid's great efforts in Johannesburg. Sustainable development contains, as mentioned above, many elements. It must be meaningful both globally and locally. Of course, the challenges are quite different and different in Norway from those faced by developing countries. In recent years, enough of our towns have also felt that sustainable development has been threatened. The situation has been marked by instability and decline in the population. Deterioration of the nutritional basis is noticeable. In our country too, development must be sustainable. Therefore, work on protection and peace must take account of both economic and social conditions. We have to find out for use and protection in a good combination. At the Johannesburg Summit, representatives of the Government expressed their concern at obtaining international commitments of at least 15 p.m. renewable energy and at least 10 pst. new renewable energy. There are good goals, but unfortunately there was no binding commitment to this at the conference, despite the great efforts of the Environment Minister. Nevertheless, these should be objectives that we work for here, domestic, and then that's the goal of at least 10 pst. new renewable energy representing the major challenge. We have the potential for increased use of more environmentally friendly forms of energy, such as bioenergy, wind power, wave power, heat pumps and increased use of waste heat. We cannot sit passive and record that Norwegian CO2 emissions continue to increase year after year because we are increasingly using fossil energy. We have committed ourselves to reducing emissions, and in a rich country like Norway, we also have financial preconditions to achieve this. During the United Nations Summit, Norway, together with Switzerland, managed to prevent a text of the agreement that would result in all future environmental agreements under the auspices of the United Nations as subordinate to WTO agreements. What Norway achieved in Johannesburg had never been allowed to do if we had been a member of the EU. The result in Johannesburg thus showed that small countries such as Norway can play a central role in international negotiations. Norway had a place at the table because we do not belong to a larger group, such as the EU or the developing country group G-77. If we had been in the EU, it would have been completely impossible to play the role that we did in these negotiations. It is important that we retain this opportunity, for our vote is needed!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e369	The left wants first to commend the Government for its work on the preparation and implementation of the Johannesburg Summit. The government has shown that the environmental and development agenda needed someone who could go ahead and get the process back on track when the prospects looked darkest. The Norwegian delegation has acted decisively and constructively in favour of global environmental and development issues. When we are about to start working after the summit, it is important to use the results of Johannesburg, both globally and nationally. The Minister for the Environment himself has said that the 90s represented his decade of formulation and that he hopes this will be implemented for his decade. The left thought it was reasonable and a good idea. The left will therefore encourage the Government to work actively to help developing countries implement international agreements on the environment and development. This must be done with financial transfers and skills building. An important tool is to contribute to increased knowledge through research into the potential and limitations of countries and international institutions to carry out such tasks. But national implementation here is also important and necessary. Only by ensuring that we comply with our obligations can we rightly call on other countries to do so. The left would like to welcome the warning of the National Action Plan on Sustainable Development. For this to be credible and effective, it is decisive that he will be guiding much of the Norwegian society, and that the design includes a variety of actors, as set out in Agenda 21. The left felt that the Government made a good and important effort to prevent the international environmental agreements from becoming subordinate to the rules of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. It is important to point out at the same time that matters are far from being negotiated. The Doha Ministerial Declaration underlined that this very interdependence is to be decided within the framework of the WTO. It is therefore important that Norway in the forthcoming negotiations begs for formulations that do not impair the functioning of the international environmental agreements. An important part of this is to provide representatives from the Secretariat of the United Nations Environment Programme and environmental agreements with the WTO negotiations, which they do not have today. The left expects the Government to support the EU's initiatives in this area. To the left, it seems positive that the government has already signaled that it will take on its commitments from Johannesburg with a follow-up package of 375 million. kr. Also, the goal of increasing assistance, so that it will reach 1 pst. of gross national income by 2005, welcomes the Left. Unfortunately, many of the UN Member States still have a long way to go to the 0.7 pst target. in assistance. The left will therefore call on the Government to continue to press the countries that have committed themselves to this formulation, but have not yet reached it. Although assistance is important and necessary to help the poorest countries, other instruments also need to be used if Norway is to contribute to the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals. The left will also encourage the Government to look at the soundness of Norwegian policies. The poor countries themselves have said that the rich countries are subsidising primary industries as the main obstacle to market access and the possibility of continuing economic development. The Government has opened the Norwegian market by removing customs duties on agricultural products from the MUL countries from 1 July 2002. The left will therefore ask the government in the context of future WTO negotiations to work to ensure that other countries also join mechanisms that make it easier for these countries to access new markets. Assistance is, as I said, important and necessary. Also in Norway, we have a little bit of what we can expect for an effective and good aid policy. Among other things, it has been shown that it has been difficult to get integrated environmental concerns into Norwegian aid work. This has to be something to do with. The left wishes to welcome the review of NORAD and Norwegian aid work. A better integration of environmental concerns into public assistance will also be in line with the Johannesburg objectives. Left supports and encourages business to take on social responsibility, nationally and globally. It was disappointing that the UN Member States did not have the power to adopt a formulation aimed at regulating the behaviour of multinational companies in developing countries. The developing countries themselves have asked for such a mechanism, and the Left believes that the Government should look at the possibility of establishing this within the framework of the United Nations Global Compact. If fruitful cooperation between the international community and business is to take place separately, it is important that companies show openness and are tested for their obligations. I started by giving praise to the Government for what they got done in Johannesburg, and I want to end by saying that the Left trusts that the Cooperative Government's commitment to sustainable development outside and at home continues and results both for the poorest in the world and for a better environment – both outdoors and at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e393	In summary, it must be said that the debate has shown that there has been broad support for the work done by the Government before and during the Johannesburg Summit and also for the follow-up work we have announced. Some brief comments on some of the questions raised: To Stoltenberg's focus on opportunities for global taxes, including: the so-called Tobin tax which France has also introduced. For the time being, this is at the idea stage, and so far, it has proved to be a small opportunity for international rapprochement. This proved to be the case, among other things. in the negotiations towards the Monterrey Conference on Aid Financing, where such proposals were discussed. Norway has been open to assess various creative funding mechanisms. But it is important, as others have said from the Chair here, that we now use the forces of the instruments that have a chance to be realised – trade, aid, the environment – and in terms of the summit, follow-up in important areas such as water and sanitation, the fight against health-threatening chemicals, and that work on such taxes and taxes does not remove the focus from what is currently the realistic path to go. To the representative of the Progress Party, I would like to point out that over time economic growth will depend on us to stop climate change. This summer we got a little taste of how it can go if not then, a major flood disaster in Europe. And this I think we need to be prepared for is things we can see more of in the future, if we don't take climate and renewable energy seriously. That is why it is quite surprising that the Progress Party expressed its satisfaction that no decision was taken on an increase in the level of renewable energy, because without more use of renewable energy on a global basis, we have nothing to do with climate change. It could also ruin the economic growth that the Progress Party strongly wants. To the representative Jacobsen, who raised questions about methane gas in landfills, among others. with an example from our common home city, Molde, I would like to note that these are unnecessary greenhouse gas emissions, which we must limit. That's why the government is now taking care of it, and we're assessing, among other things. a prohibition on landfilling wet organic waste, which is an important source of methane gas. Let me end by saying that the Government wants Norway to be a driver of sustainable development. The role we played in Johannesburg is an expression of this will. And today's debate has confirmed once again that there is a great deal of excitement about it in the Stortinget. I'm glad. The broad parliamentary support we have received provides added strength in the international negotiations in which we participate. Of course, I also note with satisfaction that there has been recognition and praise for the Norwegian efforts during the summit. This will be taken up by our entire negotiating delegation. They did a hell of a job. This also applies, and not least, to our two government councils, Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson and Environment Minister Børge Brende, who made a formidable effort both during the difficult preparatory rounds and at critical points during the Johannesburg meeting itself. The active line of the Government got into the Johannesburg process, commits us also in the process, and with the support of the Storting, we will continue this work both internationally and here at home. Finally, with regard to work at home, the Government has provisionally put forward a national sustainable development strategy. In a short time, we will present an outline of how work on the National Agenda will be organised. We aim to present the national action plan in autumn 2003 at the same time as the national budget. In order to ensure relevance and proximity to key processes, we have laid the coordinating responsibility here for the Ministry of Finance, which has a special coordinating function. To underline the priority of the work, we will appoint a sample called the Green Council of the Government, composed of State Secretaries in relevant departments. We also aim to invite three conferences on economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainable development, respectively, in order to have a broad participation in further work. We're following this up on the Nordic level based on the Nordic strategy we've already adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e430	At the request of the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 15 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e441	As the rapporteur for the biggest communication on social security, I would first like to say a little about the work on the suspension. This paper has been dealt with in parallel by the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee. In addition to the rapporteur, there has been a joint committee – three of us from the Defence Committee and three from the Justice Committee – responsible for the work. Both hearings and the submission of the opinion have taken place in meetings with both committees. It is a new way of working on matters that there are two committees that will have a case to deal with before delivery. It's been a challenge, but in my opinion it's absolutely crucial to get a good attitude. The observer will see that the notes are sewn together. But as the case-law rapporteur, it was important for me to reach a broad political consensus. We have done that, and the setting gives the Government a good starting point for the further process of the very comprehensive and important work that the concept of ‘social security’ holds. We have a vision of a safe and robust society that averts threats and overcomes crises. It means that available resources can be deployed in a flexible way. The Committees see that the work is so extensive, and there are so many involved, that in several comments we have clarified the importance of clear command line and defined responsibilities. In today’s situation and with the threat picture of the future, it is necessary to give further societal security work an even clearer priority within a more specific and structured framework than provided for in the Communication. This is necessary if future threats in known and unknown forms are to be prevented in a structured and effective manner. By working so closely, the two committees, the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee, have revealed and highlighted differences in thinking and evaluations, including: on the total defence. As the concept of ‘total defence’ proved to be so different in content, the Committees proposed that defence and civil protection should be discussed and that the issue should then be presented to the Stortinge in an appropriate form. We are talking about a total concept of social security and vulnerability as a framework for work. The key must be to solve joint tasks, to identify opportunities for interaction on common or equal challenges, to make visible key points of contact for civil and military people with a focus on competence, quality and good use of resources. It is also important to have common use and perception of key security concepts. It is about having a common language – which is essential for the comprehensive work of this paper, and which will act as a whole. In today's modern, vulnerable societies, the defence's support for civil society and civil protection will be an important part of total defence. In the event of major disasters or terrorist attacks, the defence will have to be an operational resource for the police, health services, transport, rescue teams, etc. In order to quote from Director Bøsterud of the Directorate of Civil Protection: ‘Total defence — the whole country’s resources, both civil and military, shall be exploitable in a crisis situation to protect national values, territory, society and population. The overall defence shall consist of the overall planning of military defence and civil protection measures.’;» This takes into account the holistic nature of resources and the social security work on which it should be based. The majority of the Committees also consider that a centre of expertise for total defence should be set up and ask the Government to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. The significant extent of the challenges we face is briefly described in NOU 2000:24 A vulnerable society, and I quote: ‘A more open world society, more complex technological systems, dependence on electronic information and communication systems, densely interconnected food production and delivery systems, traffic systems with increased traffic density and higher speeds, and an increasingly fast transition business – all of this creating new and faster changing vulnerability conditions. Furthermore, the more open world economy and changes in the political landscape have led to a significant change in the threat profile of criminal acts.’» This briefly puts a little perspective on the extent of the work on social security and that it concerns all committees here in the United Kingdom. The Committees have put individual citizens' security in the centre. Democracy as a form of governance and fundamental values and norms must be defended. Prevention is important and the basic knowledge of what creates vulnerability should be given priority. The nation shall, through a coordinated national and international use of resources, be defended against any current and future intended threat to the security of individual citizens. St.meld. No 17 is based on the principles of responsibility, proximity and equality. The principle of responsibility means that the person responsible in a normal situation is also responsible for extraordinary events. This principle applies to all public and private enterprises. Individual citizens also have a responsibility for their own security. It would be neither appropriate nor desirable to provide instructions or guidelines on the actions to be taken by individuals to ensure their own safety. The work needs to focus more on informational material on the appropriate measures to be taken in order to ensure its own safety in the event of crises. But too many of us are also concerned with having a conscious attitude and knowledge of vulnerability to ensure a preparedness for a wide range of hazards. The Committees will stress that society must be adequately prepared for crisis and war, demands must be made for preparedness at all levels of government. It is equally important to have a management apparatus capable of dealing with crises. Exercises are important both for awareness raising, experience raising and care raising. The target exercise group is all those responsible for safety, preparedness and crisis management. It is necessary to give the further process of social security work an even clearer priority within a specific and structured framework in order to respect the principles of responsibility, proximity and equality, and the majority of the Committees are asked by the Government to submit proposals for a central crisis management unit which, in the event of a crisis, will be responsible for coordination by the departments and departments which must be operational in the response work. The formulations indicate that it is the responsibility of the Government to present the proposal, but we have noted both the wording of the Sem Declaration and the role of the Ministry of Justice in coordinating and supervising it. On the basis of the principle of responsibility and the principle of subsidiarity in the emergency link, the most concerned department will be responsible for dealing with the crisis initially. The Prime Minister’s office will always be central to dealing with serious crises. There are procedures for alerting the Prime Minister's office and they will quickly decide whether to establish a special organisation of work based on the nature of the situation. The Prime Minister’s office must also decide when and how to bring the Government in. The majority of the Committee is in favour of setting up a new Directorate for Preparedness and Social Security. It needs to be developed into a broad and powerful preparedness organisation. The overall responsibility for fire, together with the responsibility for major accidents, should be transferred to the new Directorate. It is important that it is established as soon as possible. In the notified supervisory notification, the Government will return to the location and, where appropriate, transfer of other responsibilities. Finally, I want to make it clear that we are at the beginning of a process. We started with Bondevik I, who put down the Vulnerability Committee. Now we have Bondevik II, who has submitted this message. But this work does not stop here. It is a process that continues in all departments, and it is a continuous work with which one should return to Stortinget in the form of propositions and in another appropriate way. In addition, we should have the same roll-out of long-term defence plans and civil protection plans, because it is important to see it in context in order to achieve the holistic approach that really underpins the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e485	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e488	Let me first join in the last time that the rapporteur said we should have parallel rollouts of the defence plans and civil protection plans. The working party has – and believes – that St.meld. No 17 failed to meet the expectations and demands of the Storting for the follow-up by the Government to the report of the Willoch Committee on a vulnerable society. We believe that the message is too descriptive and is based only on existing organisation and structure, without taking the necessary steps to ensure social prevention and preparedness – with some honourable exceptions – where a threat to the individual security of individual citizens, based on intentional and unintended events, is put at the centre. However, the Labour Party has chosen to join a broad majority in terms of civil protection, in the same way that we have a broad majority in defence, security and foreign policy. In particular, the defence policy agreement seems to us to be important. We think it means most of the security for people that you have as wide a width as possible in the policy on these issues, which can work regardless of what kind of government constellation we have. It also means that in this setting there are wordings in a number of areas and points that the Government has to come back to concreteisation. I would ask the case rapporteur to confirm that the government fraction will work actively to ensure that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e497	To take the last one first, I can confirm that the government fraction will make sure that the government comes back with what we have submitted in the comments. As the social security rapporteur, also in the state budget, this is an area I am going to work a lot on in the continuation. It's one of the areas of particular interest that I've come up with, and that I think is important. I therefore expect that we will work a lot together on social security in the future. The representative Nybakk said that the message was too descriptive and not very concrete. But at the same time, it certainly shows the extent of both vulnerability and social security work. We've had our discussions and we might see that it could have been set up or done in another way. But this was the first message, and I also think the starting point was good to get it a little under the skin how much is really involved in this work, which we have then managed to clarify – this with command lines, responsibility, trying to get to the framework, visions and goals. And, as I also mentioned instead: this is a process that we're really just at the beginning of. I am pleased that the Workers' Party chose to join a broad majority in social security work as well. It's very important for the calmness and the impact that such work must have. I am – like the representative Nybakk – also satisfied with the defence agreement that we were able to achieve a good political breadth in the defence work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e508	The Progress Party has difficulties in understanding the majority’s opinion, including: The Christian People's Party is involved, in terms of the number of circuits the Civil Defense is organized in. The Christian People's Party wants this organized in 18 circuits, but sees the problem in North Norway with, among other things. large distances. They believe that the most appropriate thing is to divide Finnmark into two circuits, and that Middle Hålogaland Police District becomes a separate circuit for parts of Nordland and Troms. On the other hand, the Progress Party wants 27 civil defence circles, so that it coincides with the number of police districts. This will allow much better cooperation, better use of resources and better local knowledge, which is of utmost importance in a crisis situation, in the view of the Progress Party. The number of police districts has changed a while ago, and this, as is done in the Progress Party, should be taken into account precisely in order to exploit the resources in all ways most properly and rationally, including in the field of civil defence circles. Why does the representative not share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e517	When we've gone in for 20 circuits and started with the counties, it's because that's where the states are sitting. It also has to do with cooperation and strengthening the county's position, and then it would be wrong to follow the police districts, as the Progress Party has proposed. It fell naturally to share Finnmark, because Finnmark is big. We also found it a useful solution to share Troms and Nordland in the Hålogaland district, in relation to Homeland. So we believe that the civil defense as it will now appear becomes powerful and good. The new Directorate also has a close link with the Civil Protection Office and the task it will do. That's why we've gone into this model.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e524	Today, the size finally addresses the communication on how to strengthen social security in Norway. I think we have to note that some of the SV's expectations regarding the handling of this matter have not been met. SV had hoped that since this case was dealt with both by the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee, and with a case rapporteur from the Defence Committee, it would mean that we developed a more holistic approach to the safety challenges in Norway. Unfortunately, we have to note that the Committees have made little use of this opportunity to look with new eyes at the allocation of tasks and resources between the civil and military sectors. SV believes that, for example: should have established that the national safety authority should be established in the civil sector. Unfortunately, we must also note that we are facing a new budgetary procedure in which billions are to be thrown after a defence that has not been shown to be able to manage its resources. SV quotes in its comments The Vulnerability Committee, which believed that there was an imbalance in the relationship between defence and civil security appropriations. I would like to hear if the rapporteur does not share our concern about this imbalance. I would also like to ask whether the case rapporteur really believes that it is reasonable to use the Government's resources to spend time investigating a centre of expertise for total defence when we now get the new Directorate of Preparedness and Social Security. I would like to hear the rapporteur's reasons for using resources on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e535	SV said that we finally process the message. Yes, it has been on the committees from April to May. The hope of an overall approach was probably the responsibility of both committees, at least not of the rapporteur alone. We had a joint selection, which I mentioned instead, where SV was also represented. It was possible to make early input in order to have an even closer debate when it came to some problem areas that the various parties thought were important. As far as the national safety authority is concerned, we are in favour of setting up a separate Directorate responsible for the prevention of security services under the Security Act, under the Ministry of Defence. It shall report military matters to the Ministry of Defence and civil matters to the Ministry of Justice. The proposal to set up the national safety authority as its own directorate was promoted to Stortinget in the past. It was the previous government that put it out in St.prp. No 45 for 2000 - 2001. However, the Defence Committee wanted to see it in the context of the consideration of the Vulnerability Communication. It is the Defence Command and the Security Staff that are upgraded to the Directorate under the National Security Authority. I think it is natural that it should still be under the Ministry of Defence. When it comes to the imbalance, I want to say that we are now at the beginning of this process, and we have to sort of discuss together. That is why we did not come ashore when it came to thinking about a total defence. I see that the further process will make it possible for us to see the social security work, both civil and military, in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e546	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e550	Let me first say that it has actually been very exciting for once to work in a joint committee of two committees. I would like to thank the participants for constructive cooperation – and many discussions, we would have expected that, too, because, as the rapporteur said, there were two very different cultures that met. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for the work he has done. We have done a very thorough job, had a game of scenarios at the Swedish Defence Research Institute, visited Sweden, Denmark, NATO and the EU, and asked the Department to investigate specific issues. That was also the background for the release being postponed from June to October. We used this time to get into a lot of different issues. Effective preparedness for the new security challenges in an open, democratic and technological society cannot be solved by military forces alone. A total concept of preparedness and security is necessary and we need to develop more civil/military cooperation where traditional cultural differences must not hinder constructive solutions. This isn't necessarily easy. Here is a lot of reverential thinking and lack of understanding and understanding of the necessary holistic strength. When the Committees asked a number of questions to ensure quality and to clarify part of what was in the main message, we asked. on a comprehensive analysis of a single concept specifically for social security, vulnerability and anti-terrorism preparedness. The answer was, among other things,\t\t You can ‘St.meld. No 17 is based on the principles of responsibility, proximity and equality. [[2001-2002]] This implies that extraordinary challenges must be met by the ordinary structures of society.’» In fact, I'm in doubt whether the Ministry of Justice understood what we were asking. A broad majority of the committees shall have, inter alia: Against this background, the Government asked for a return to the Storting and presented a comprehensive concept covering prevention, preparedness and crisis management. The majority also believe that a centre of expertise should be set up for the overall defence, which was also underlined here by the case rapporteur and taken up in the previous reply round, and asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with it in an appropriate manner. There have also been people on the track in terms of location, without me taking it up here and now. The overall civil protection, police and defence resources shall ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges, inter alia: modern terrorism represents. A total concept must strengthen cooperation between civil and military preparedness and not least define difficult grey areas in acute situations. This is why the majority of the committees are also in favour of re-examination of emergency legislation, inter alia. with a view to preparing the command line. At all, in many areas we have had to ask the Government to come back with concrete solutions, or we have made our own concrete. In some areas, the notification lacks important structural interventions, including: the arrests proposed by the Willoch Committee. In addition, after the communication was presented, there has been considerable international dynamism related to threats to the vulnerability of society, both through accidental incidents such as the flood disaster in central Europe, through the new information that has emerged in the wake of the investigation of terrorist attacks against the United States and the horrific terrorist attacks we have had in the autumn. The future preparedness to prevent vulnerability and to ensure that we can deal with a crisis situation when it arises will require that we also think about organisation. Although civil defence, home security, non-governmental organisations and the local emergency budgets need to be addressed in an emergency situation, future action also requires stronger central governance, clearer command lines and better guidelines for the use of defence operational resources. We support the proposal to strengthen the emergency instructions and statutory emergency services of the counties. However, during the floods in Germany and the Czech Republic, central crisis management failed. And on the basis of the evaluation of the rescue work in the period after 11 September last year, the United States is now setting up its own ministry of homeland security. You might think about central governance in a new way because it happens the way it happens. The Committee believes that it is necessary to give further social security work an even clearer priority within a specific and structured framework and asks the Government to submit proposals for a central crisis management unit which, in acute situations, is to be responsible for coordination by departments and agencies that must be operational in emergency response. The terrorists who placed the bombs in Bali knew exactly what they were doing. Coordination, planning and the enormous bursting power tell us about high levels of competence and well-trained experts. The aim of the terrorist attack was one-sided civil, and fear, chaos, uncertainty was created. The tourists escaped the country. That, of course, was the purpose. But, at the same time as the terrorist bombs in Bali, they narrowed it down in a shopping mall in one of our neighbouring countries. Eight killed, including a suicide bomber, 80 people injured. A confused person? Yes, but how can we guarantee ourselves that unstable, but technically skilled people in our own societies are affected by suicide bombers in other parts of the world? I think it only went a few hours after the two committees gave up today's position, so Chechen suicide bombers invaded a theater with 800 people in Moscow. Who had suspected that it was the next terrorist action? What characterizes modern terrorists is that they are always in the forefront. We can't predict or predict their next move. Various actors and challenges have emerged that could threaten both collective and individual freedom. The concrete measures referred to in the Communication are broadly in line. The proposed Directorate for Social Security must, in the Committee's view, be a new organisation. We do not now take a final position on the organisation, because we say that, if necessary, we need to consider including the assignment of tasks from supervision when we receive the supervisory notice. We also do not take a position on location. The government has to come back to Stortinget with that. As suggested in a reply round, the national safety authority is established from 1 January 2003. NSM was adopted by Stortinget as part of the preventive safety service law as early as February 1998. So let's make that clear. Sections 8 and 9 of the Act contain detailed descriptions of the tasks of the National Safety Authority and, in addition, – The King may provide detailed rules on the performance of the tasks of the NSM, pursuant to Section 9 of Chapter 3. NSM is otherwise an upgrade and an extension of the Safety Staff. Moreover, when on 21 June this year the Defence Committee and the Judicial Committee gave a clear signal to continue working on a number of issues even though the committees were postponing the release, the National Security Authority was one of the points on which we clarified that the Government could continue to work. In addition, the Defence Committee – I am now speaking for the Defence Committee, I believe the Justice Committee has also been in the Security Staff – was given a thorough account of the Government's preparations for the National Security Authority as the Directorate, i.e. the planning of the Directorate, during our visit there on 2 March this year. I have also registered that SV is proposing that ‘the creation of NSM should be defined as the principle that persons who are deprived of the safety declaration’ — it should be ‘safety clearance’ — ‘shall be ensured transparency in their case’. Paragraph 25 of the Precautionary Safety Service Act adopted by the Stortinget in 1998 states that: ‘The person who has been assessed for safety clearance has the right to be made aware of the result. In the event of a negative decision, the result shall be made known to him unsolicited. The right to request a statement of reasons and the right to appeal shall be disclosed in the event of a negative decision.’;» – There is also something about this. This means that you can open the doors with the proposal that has been made. I have already said that the communication in a number of areas lacks the concrete proposals made by the Willoch Committee. We have in the configuration of the IT sector committees, the oil sector, food preparedness, drinking water safety and preparedness for weapons of mass destruction. These are, in the Committee's view, areas that need to be assessed and submitted to the Storting for consideration in an appropriate manner and on an appropriate occasion. In one area we have been very specific, namely coastal preparedness. The majority today decides to set up a crisis management command for the northern areas of Reitan, a matter that has been involved for a year and a half. I'm very pleased with that. In addition, the Committees consider that the Government must submit proposals for the organisation of a traffic centre in Finnmark, possibly in connection with the Vardø Coast Radio Station. The civil defence was mentioned in a reply round. Let me add that also from the Labour Party we have chosen to adhere to the main principle of the notification that the civil defence circles should follow the county boundaries, but with two exceptions. One is Finnmark, the other is Nordland. However, it may be appropriate to draw that border in the Nordic countries elsewhere – we will have to engage in dialogue with the ministry on this. I would like to stress that the setting is there, but that we get 20 civil defence circuits and not 18. Civil protection is also about being very concrete and thinking concretely in acute situations. Do we have enough room for third-degree incineration at Haukeland Hospital? What is the transport situation when this crisis arises? What cooperation procedures and agreements do we have with neighbouring countries in the event of a crisis where we need health preparedness? What ethical considerations need to be made in the event of acute crises, such as: health professionals? This requires training, it requires practice, and I think it's important that we underline just this. Finally, the Workers’ Party has chosen to facilitate the same broad majority that entered into the historical defence policy settlement in June. We believe that such a broad spectrum of security policy, both military and civil, creates stability and security in an increasingly vulnerable society. It is clear that we then compromise, it should just be lacking, because that is how we come up with solutions also in the Storting. But I now assume that the government will follow up the requests contained in the comments, about concrete follow-up of the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e615	The representative of Nybakk started by explaining why the message was postponed. The explanation she gave, I don't think it's quite correct. It was that in the committee there was a big discussion not about whether the message was good, because we agreed that it was not, but about the way to deal with it in retrospect. At least the Progress Party has proposed to send it back to the Department, because we didn't think it had the goal. It may not have been so far away that it was sent back, but someone did well to seize the opportunity that they could postpone it, in order not to make too much history out of it. - I think that's the right explanation. When Nybakk says that the message lacks important structural grips, it is strange that not the Working Party, for example. has promoted their own comments that say something about it. They have no own proposals that say anything about it, and they are very pleased with the defence policy agreement that was made in ours. It is also very pleased with the other representative Wisløff Nilsen, and I understand that very well. But I must say that in such an important matter as the one we are dealing with today, I am very surprised that the Labour Party does not have its own opinions! So they've gone into a joint proposal with the government parties, and I think that's almost historic. Where is the Workers' Party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e622	First to the postponement. It is quite right, as the representative Width says; there was a discussion in the Joint Committee and in the Committees about whether the notification should be sent back. However, together with the government parties, we chose to ask for a postponement. But we didn't just do it. We took another grip. We asked the Ministry of Justice to investigate and clarify a number of specific issues. We sent a letter on 21 June 2002 asking for evaluation of the specific issues. In addition, we made it clear that the Government could continue to work on some specific issues. This includes, inter alia, the national safety authority. We received a reply from the Ministry of Justice at the end of September – otherwise on 33 pages. It was not only the committees that worked through September with this communication, it was also the Ministry of Justice. In terms of common comments and common positions, if you are results-oriented, you try to create a majority in order to get ahead on a case. The Labour Party has done so here, and I believe that we have put a strong emphasis on this setting. In a number of areas, the Communication has now been made concrete. In other areas, we have asked for cases to be brought back to Stortinget in an appropriate form or as a proposition. We have also prayed, among others. to provide a central crisis management unit to the Stortinget. I would like to reiterate that it is important that civil and military preparedness in the security policy as a whole has a breadth that provides people with security and that can be independent of different government constellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e634	SV is strongly critical of how the defence in different contexts has shown a lack of willingness to follow political signals, and we have registered with interest that more parties in this room contribute to putting a more active searchlight than before at the level of political control over the defence. The Workers' Party at the chair of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, is one of those who have been active in providing information of relevance to Norway as a democracy. My question to the representative Nybakk is: Does not recent events show that there is a need for greater civil control and that this should also apply to the national safety authority? Could it be that SV's proposal to place this directorate under the Ministry of Justice has something to do with it? Since the response of the representative Marit Nybakk will obviously be no, which I hope she will elaborate more, will the Workers' Party, together with the Swedish Labour Party, contribute to the provision of some democratic leadership to ensure the legal certainty of individuals and access to information in matters relating to security clearances? SV promotes, as the representative Marit Nybakk has registered, two proposals that we believe will take care of some of these considerations. Firstly, we ask the Government to establish, in the context of the establishment of the NSM, the principle of ensuring the transparency of persons excluded from the security clearance. So this is not the right to ask for reasons when granting security clearance, but where it is withdrawn. So – the representative Marit Nybakk has misunderstood. The second thing we ask for is that the Government appoints an independent name as the appeal body in cases where the Government finds that there are particular reasons to deviate from the principle of the right to transparency in matters relating to the withdrawal of such security clearance. So how does the Workers' Party approach these proposals now when I have corrected the misunderstanding that emerged?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e643	Let me start with the Defense in general and then go over to the National Security Authority in particular. As far as defence is concerned, there is no civil control we should have over defence, but it is political control and democratic control. That control is important for the Storting to exercise at all times. There is also a control that, of course, the Minister of Defence must exercise over his organisation. I believe precisely in terms of defence, that democratic control and political control are necessary, so there I agree with the representative. In the case of the national safety authority, which was otherwise adopted in February 1998, only so that we also agree that there is no innovation that has emerged in St. meld. No 17, I believe that SV has opened doors with their suggestions. I believe that Section 25 of this Act clearly states that you can not only ask for an appeal, but also for a reason why you are not cleared for security. This law was adopted with a unanimous vote by the Defence Committee, but, as far as I know, SV voted against the Stortinget. They had no representatives on the Defence Committee at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e652	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e655	It is an important matter we are discussing today, so important that the Stortinget has allowed two committees to discuss it jointly. St. Message No. 17, Social security — The road to a less vulnerable society forms the basis for further work on crisis management in Norway. The Defence Committee and the Judicial Committee present a position which, fortunately, reveals a great deal of consensus. Fortunately, the management of vulnerability and crises by society is something that should be widely agreed on. We must have a predictable framework, we must have clear lines of responsibility and a consistent practice in this area. On 11 September 2001, a gloomy background for the notification, while Willoch’s Vulnerability Committee and the Resolution of the Emergency Response Committee have contributed to the professional background. It is important that everyone supports the objectives of the work on social security: Norway shall actively contribute within international organisations and through international activities in order to indirectly strengthen national social security work.The work on social security shall be of high priority and organisational responsibility shall reflect this. It is also important to stress that the vulnerability message is slightly more than an answer to the challenges of brutal and cruel acts of terrorism facing society. First of all, it's about how we can prevent attacks on society's order and infrastructure, and if such damage should occur, how best to clean up and restore a normal situation. Society shall have a preparedness to deal well with major events, regardless of their nature, in peace as well as in crises and wars. It is important that preparedness is so coordinated that the actions of the various sectors in the area of security and preparedness appear as a whole. Social security work shall ensure a systematic identification of the threats to, and vulnerability to, society. Preventive measures are needed to prevent adverse events and to address the vulnerability that is unacceptable. The fight against terrorism must be strengthened through a wide range of countermeasures. Terrorism actions by non-governmental actors are capable of affecting civil society to an extent that could threaten national security. While we have experienced pure acts of terror against civil society in the last year, we see a frightening development of organized crime in many parts of the world. In many cases, violence, threats of violence and corruption are used. It is otherwise known that several terrorist organisations finance their activities through organised crime, such as drug trafficking, drug trafficking and drug trafficking. drug trafficking. In many cases, dividends are paid on money laundering in seemingly lawful commercial activities. This gives Norwegian authorities major national and international challenges. It is therefore important that Norway participates in the central international arenas in order to strengthen cooperation between countries in order to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. Norway has joined Schengen and Europol. Through these organisations, we have received good tools for information exchange and operational cooperation between several countries. In addition, it is important that we work through the UN and other international organisations to strengthen the fight against the cancer that has become international organised crime. Vulnerability is more than intentional events like terror and crime; it's also accidental events. The unintended events can be natural disasters such as floods, forest fires or escapes. Major accidents may trigger the need for military and civil protection, such as large hotel fires, oil platform blasts or aircraft and train accidents. Unintentional events can also be mishandling that triggers chaos, crises and disasters. The overall civil protection, police and defence resources shall ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges. A total concept must strengthen cooperation between civil and military preparedness and define difficult grey areas in acute situations. Within this mosaic of intentional and unintended events, it is important to do organisational interventions that provide Norway as a nation with well-functioning, dynamic and robust social security work. The Vulnerability Committee proposed that one department, a Ministry of the Interior, should be responsible for the challenges we are facing. The government has chosen different grapples from a new ministry to meet the challenges. At the central level, the establishment of a intelligence and security committee with its own permanent secretariat to ensure the full use of all EOS resources within an enlarged threat picture will be important. The KRU Secretariat must have a broad analytical competence for the EOS Committee, based on a broad approach to the overall threat picture. It is important to stress that intelligence, monitoring and security will be very central to achieving the objectives of social security. The Defence Command/Safety Staff shall be upgraded to a Directorate under the name of the National Safety Authority, NSM. The NSM, as previously mentioned, shall be responsible for the provision of preventive security services under the Security Act. It shall be subject to the Ministry of Defence but shall report to the Ministry of Defence in the military sector and the Ministry of Justice in the civil sector. Based on the last few days in the Newspaper, it is very good to stress that the establishment of the NSM has a broad majority in the two committees, while the two committees' joint committees, by letter of 21 June this year, gave the Government a clear signal to continue working with the NSM, pending today's deliberations. I can also confirm that the Justice Committee visited the Security Staff on 30 September and was thoroughly briefed on the reorganisation. Therefore, it is natural to say that the newspaper is totally lost in the matter they have been driving in the last few days. The majority agree with the responsibilities that the new Directorate should include — then we talk about the new Directorate for Social Security — where the main task is to merge the Directorate for Civil Protection and parts of the Directorate for Fire and Electricity, but emphasises that the overall responsibility for fire, together with the responsibility for major accidents, should be transferred to the new Directorate. It is important that the new Directorate should be established as soon as possible. In the forthcoming Supervisory Communication, the Government will return to the issue of location and any transfer of other responsibilities. This assessment must also cover the division of the Directorate for Fire and Electricity Safety. This should not delay efforts to establish the new Directorate. The Executive Board shall have a common competence line from central to local level in civil protection. The notification will also need to include the supervisory management of both prevention and preparedness, including against business, and the place of the new directorate in this. It is important to provide forward-looking solutions in order to bring together preventive safety and preparedness work aimed at business. In this context, it is important to point out the need for organisational solutions to address the need to see prevention security and preparedness in the context, building on and further developing the existing competences, which are designed in cooperation with users, inter alia. business. Civil defence will also be reorganised and subject to the new Directorate. The majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left, initially agree that it is appropriate that civil defence should be organised in 18 circles. However, due to the large distances and especially the challenges in North Norway, it is appropriate to divide Finnmark into two circuits and that the current Middle Hålogaland police district becomes a separate circuit for parts of Northern and Troms. This gives us 20 civil defence circles to be run by an executive director and not by the chief of police as today. Civil defence will play a very central role in civil protection in close cooperation and interaction with non-governmental organisations, Home Affairs and other parts of Defence. The Committee has also considered it desirable for former defence facilities, where appropriate and cost-effective, to be exploitable by the police and civil protection. I refer here to the comments of the majority of the Judicial Committee on the rental and use of the former Air Force School Centre in Stavern, where the justice sector's training and practice centre has now been established. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, refers to the fact that the Eggemo at Ringerijk and Torpomoen in Ål in Hallingdal with close access to large mountain areas may also be facilities that the police and other State actors can use. A centre of excellence should be set up for the overall defence, and the majority ask the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner. In such an assessment of a centre of competence, it is natural to look at the tasks to be undertaken and where it is most appropriate to carry out the various activities. The Committees point to a number of areas where further work needs to be done, and my co-representatives in the Right will address some of these in their subsequent speeches. It is now important to clarify the interaction between the civil and military sectors so that the defence resources can be used in specific situations. It is important that a closer look at the impact of climate change on society's vulnerability, the work on a new emergency link - TETRA - must be continued, measures against smuggling and illicit trafficking in nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction must be given priority, etc. In short, there is still a lot of work to be done. However, I believe that the most important thing now is to put in place the organisational changes the committees are putting up to ensure systematic and coordinated work on the challenges facing society. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of voluntary action in the field of preparedness. Voluntary organisations are making a major effort in this area today. This effort is important, and conditions must be created to facilitate the continuation of this work. This has been an exciting and challenging matter to work with. The form of work of two committees has also been special. On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I should like to thank you for being part of this debate. It is important that we in Stortingen also start to look at the cross-committees in some cases. It gives matters a broader foundation and hopefully a more thorough treatment. The final result has been good, but there are still major challenges ahead of us in making our country the best way to meet intentional and unintended events.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e727	I think there's reason to be satisfied with this day. Norway is at an early stage with a report on vulnerability. It is clear that we had the basis in the Vulnerability Committee of Willoch, on which it was easy to build further. I would nevertheless say, as others have also said, that the product that came to the committee was not a product for which the Labour Party could have gone. The product that's here, Innst. S. No 9, is a product for which the Workers' Party can go, and I think that's a little important. I can ask a question to the representative of Greece: how would it have been to be the government's armsman for such a bad message and work it through to two government councils? But I won't stay long by it, I'll add a positive attitude to it. The defense committee has just been to the United States, and they're working on something called Homeland Security Bill, which is one of the same things we have here. And when you look at what comes from conservative forces in the United States, you have to be happy that the Right goes in front of the Right goes in for here, and so far as the Advance Party as well. Federal authorities have been given great power that goes beyond both privacy and professional rights — things that would never have been adopted in Norway. But finally, a question. There is now a great deal of responsibility on the municipalities. Contingency plans shall be established. Will the Government and government parties follow up so that the municipalities do not once again sit with blackmailers in an economic game where all tasks are added to the municipalities, and the municipalities do not receive any money?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e737	Although the representative Halvorsen entrusts me with the honorable task of being the government's armsmen, I do not therefore have the position that I can say exactly what the government will do in the future. But I expect that when the local authorities' emergency response obligations become mandatory and they will follow it up, it will have to follow funds – it would be strange otherwise. But Vulnerability work and preparedness work are also talking about good planning, and I expect that the main emphasis of the municipalities now has to take action. But I think there is a lot of good preparedness work already in the municipalities in Norway today. Otherwise I am also satisfied with this day, and I think Halvorsen's introduction was like one had to expect, that the product was not good enough, but together we have done it well enough. Well, I think the product was good initially, but I'm glad that we could now do it even better through the thorough treatment we've had in Stortinget. One must also remember that this message was submitted in the spring, it was six months after the events in the United States on 11 September. The message was initially intended to be a follow-up on two samples – I also count on the work of the government of Stoltenberg – namely the Vulnerability Committee and the Emergency Response Committee. Then we got the suicide attacks in the United States, the air raids on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and that made it a completely different dimension of this work that one had to take seriously. That is why I am very pleased that the Government provided a good starting point, as the two committees through careful consideration, through questions and through further investigations by the departments have improved. We are now at the starting point of the important work on vulnerability and social security that we have called for, and that now this government has delivered, and that we can now work together on in the years to come. For this is not a work that ends today, it begins today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e744	The representative of Greece pointed out the danger of organised crime to Norway and Norway’s vulnerability. He pointed out in this context the need for cooperation through international organisations. See Greece that Norway can make itself more vulnerable if it becomes internationally known that Norway will not be as active and use the same methods of investigation as for example. France or other EU countries in investigating this type of organised crime? The question then arises: Does the Right want such self-inflicted additional vulnerability in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e751	It is, of course, tempting to turn the debate into a purely judicial and criminal debate, because, as far as the use of methods is concerned – investigation methods, space exploration, the kind of thing that the representative Kampestad is sure to think about – is right-wing about discussing it in the future, but in this debate I think we should take the lead on what is really important, namely the organisational changes that now need to be put in place to improve the work on social security in Norway. In addition, Minister of Justice Dørum, and also I, have on several occasions said that with regard to the use of methods, there are instruments that need to be assessed as incidents occur that make it natural to assess these uses. It is the case in Norway that the police have expanded their methodology in recent years, but it is not that we, as politicians, should go ahead and introduce new methods to the police. It must be requested, and it must be necessary to use it. The Minister of Justice has also taken the lead in the use of new instruments to combat organised crime. One example is a Nordic witness protection programme that allows people who are exposed to terrorist activities — pure gang activity by criminal organisations, mafia, etc. - may have a new identity and a new place of residence. These are examples of us taking this threat seriously. And we're going to be in the front when it comes to fighting organized crime, it's going to be MC gangs, it's going to be mafia business, it's going to be other things that threaten our national security, and that help destabilize the social order we've built up here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e758	I lived for many years in the error that I – like the others who grew up in northern Norway in the 1960s – lived in a complete and perfect environment. But when the news of the Soviet Union's nuclear tests in the north came in the 1990s, it turned out that one had kept away information for an entire people. One had kept away from the nuclear threat, that the daily life of most people was not safe. And worst of all, it might have been to know that Norwegian authorities knew, while most people actually didn't know about this. Today, the Storting is discussing security and vulnerability on a very wide scale, from the smaller and mundane events to greater threats of war and terror. The nuclear threat and weapons of mass destruction are of the almost unimaginable threats we face – not daily, not in everyday life of the individual Norwegian citizen, but by reading the facts, an image shows the extent of the problem. I assume that Right knows well about the non-luger initiative and is familiar with these issues. And international agreements are the way to go. But when we experience that one of our closest allies, the United States, cancels the ABM agreement in order to build rocket shields in order to be able to act conventionally anywhere in the world without fear of retaliation, it becomes a good example that we still have a long way to go. So I want to ask what right did we think we should do to get the United States back to the ABM agreement and get an international ban on nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e769	There's a bit of excitement about a debate that swings from what the Justice Commissioner can do to get the United States back to the negotiating table with regard to the ABM agreement, to new methods for the police and other questions. I don't think I'm going to give the recipe. I would rather give the SV a note that they have made a number of constructive contributions in the work on the Vulnerability Communication, among others. in the case of weapons of mass destruction, in the case of the nuclear threat and in the case of natural damage, to which unanimous committees have joined. It shows that there is a broad consensus on limiting the flow of that type of weapon. We're dealing with this with illegal trafficking and smuggling of radioactive material. We address this with weapons of mass destruction and ask the Government to strengthen its efforts to combat it, assess how the efforts of the police, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Defence and other actors can be in preventing proliferation, etc. I think we should stick to the vulnerability announcement and conditions in this country, and then the Foreign Affairs Committee can discuss the ABM agreement on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e778	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e781	There is no disagreement that the work on social security is based on the prevention of crises and that crises that have arisen are handled as well as possible, as stated in the opening of this suspension. St. pp. No 45 for 2000–2001, the Conversion of Defence in the period 2002–2005, and Innst. S. No 342 for 2000–2001 should provide a number of premises for the notification. A selection, the so-called Vulnerability Committee, led by Kåre Willoch, issued a report in July 2000 entitled ‘A vulnerable society’. The basis for a good and well-worked communication should therefore be present. We haven't got that. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the message was so inconclusive, little worked through and difficult to grasp that we proposed to send the entire message back to the ministry. At the end of the day, this would not be the majority of the committees. Instead, the suspension of the notification was postponed for several months, followed by a number of questions to the Ministry in order to clarify, if possible, misunderstandings and uncertainties, without the Committees becoming particularly wiser in their replies. The Committees have therefore had a difficult and problematic task, and, in my view, have tried, to the best of my ability, to present a position which has addressed the issues to a greater extent, without which we have succeeded completely, which must therefore be seen in the context of a very poor starting point. The consolation must be that this setting must end up in one or more propositions that have to solve the details of the problem much more. It must clearly be the task of the State Councils and of the departments. It should be noted in the departments that the preparations for proposed organisational changes have been registered and accepted in the Progress Party. However, preparations must not be such that it becomes unclear whether this is actually an implementation of organisational changes. For the Ministry of Defence in particular, it is important that such situations do not arise, as there are now other unclear situations in the ministry. The Party has promoted its own alternative to the establishment of the national safety authority as a directorate. I'll get back to it. In addition to this, we want to put a spotlight on using the term National Safety Authority for a directorate. We fear that this will be a conceptual confusion. In our opinion, the concept of authority does not naturally fall within the scope of a description of a directorate, as ‘authority’ is a general description of an instance or bodies exercising or being responsible for the exercise of powers on the basis of given criteria. The Progress Party believes that the overall responsibility for the work on social security should be assigned to the top level of the Government and the administration by establishing a National Security Directorate under the Office of the Prime Minister. This Directorate should be staffed by the relevant staff of the other departments, Directorates and departments. It would be natural for parts of the Ministry of Justice’s rescue and preparedness department to be included in this Directorate. We also believe that intelligence, monitoring and security will be very key elements in achieving the objectives. The Directorate must have access to all relevant information, and there must therefore be some form of structured reporting back to the Directorate. The work of the Directorate should be coordinated by the fact that this Directorate will direct particularly important aspects of the social security and preparedness work and that this will provide authority and impact for social security in a broad sense. This will increase the political focus and weight of work and increase the possibilities for the whole of preparedness work and better use of resources. The Directorate should receive reports from a number of other Directorates, such as: Police Directorate, Directorate for Fire and Electricity Safety, County Emergency Units, etc. All information and reporting on a wide range of societal activities should therefore be reported back to this Directorate, which will be able to sort and manage all information in a consistent and transparent way and thus make use of societal information, including in a fast and effective way. The Directorate is thus entrusted with coordinating and supervising civil protection responsibilities and, in our opinion, is to establish general guidelines and frameworks for the security and preparedness of departments. There's a lot of use of the word directorate, but there's no other word for it. The Directorate is therefore responsible for implementing the work and setting out concrete objectives and, on that basis, providing an overall overview. This will allow for a comprehensive view of preventive safety work and preparedness in all sectors, including socially important functions such as transport, petroleum activities, etc. Arenas for dialogue and the possibility of transfer of experience between socially important areas could be established. Coordination of planning shall be strengthened so as to reflect serious preparedness and security challenges in the actions envisaged in the event of a crisis. These changes require a number of amendments to the laws, regulations, instructions, etc., and the Progress Party therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a statement and proposals for changes to the legal basis. Furthermore, the transition phase between existing organisations and the new directorate needs to be as short as possible and the overall responsibilities of the transition phase need to be fully clarified. As I have pointed out earlier, the Progress Party believes that the message is of such a nature that we propose to send it back to the department. You could therefore take chapter by chapter separately, but for time reasons I just want to point out a few important things. The Progress Party believes that the concept of terrorism in the communication is slow, and in particular in those times. It is important to look at the problems and challenges of terrorism carried out as part of organised crime. At a time when there is great political and economic unrest in large parts of the world, there is a flourishing of various types of organised crime. This also applies in Norway. Norway is a vulnerable society, where we are used to a high level of security and transparency. Unfortunately, this can be exploited by terrorists for the establishment of both sleeping and active terrorist cells. These activities are often financed through organised crime. The Progress Party has further recorded that, in view of, inter alia, the emergence of very critical situations through intentional and unintended events. electrical safety and flood protection. These are themes that need to be reviewed to a greater extent. We believe that the existing legislation is not adapted to the situations we can fear in today's and tomorrow's societies. We believe that the preparation of a plan of measures in the field of electricity security and flood protection must also include proposals for measures aimed at limiting damage to sabotage and accidental incidents against key objects. Finally, I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote and a joint motion by the Progress Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e809	Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e814	Once again, I want a friendly tone. I think that once again is reason to express joy that we stand so strongly together. Actually – to say it a little popular – what we're arguing about is the location of an office. The progress part will place it somewhere other than what we want. But there are two things that I would like to ask the representative, Width, about. One goes on with the third duty category, which, surprisingly to me, supports the Progress Party here. We had an adjustment, Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001, where a nearly unanimous committee, all except the Advance Party, was in favour of finding a third protection category. The later it was rejected, and so now the Progress Party, by all, jumps on with SV and will investigate this scheme. I have to get an explanation for the dramatic change that has occurred here on the part of the Progress Party. The second thing I thought I'd ask the representative, Width, is something that's in the setting on page 45, where the Home Office is described, to say the public, that was not used for these tasks. In particular, HV 016, which cannot be used because special departments should be used. And special departments, there are departments that are in daily service. So, then, the form of service in Homeland must be transformed dramatically, and how does the representative view this? Should the force become professional, shall there be standing forces in the Home Guard? I'm a little surprised that the representative Width, who has his background in Homeland Protection, doesn't think that a Homeland soldier with the local knowledge and knowledge he has, in the fight against terrorism might be as good as a professional soldier.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e823	In the case of a third protection category, as the representative Halvorsen is so surprised that we have said something about it, we have only asked for an investigation, and that is because we are opposed to a third protection category. But we would like to have it figured out and on that basis probably find a good deal of good arguments to say no. That's what I expect to come there. We want an investigation, maybe with a better content than what we already have. But, as I said, we're against it, and an investigation can always be useful. In the case of HV, it is clear that HV 016 is an important piece in HV resources to solve important tasks. On the other hand, we are aware that these departments have a limited ability to practice. The departments are composed of competent voluntary teams, they must not be compromised, but the amount of training over a year is not sufficient to maintain such a level in the departments as to characterise them as specialised departments or specialists. The service is approx. 22 days in a year, and as I said, it's well below the point of being a specialist. The intention must be to use these limited hours for demanding HV tasks in order to train and increase this type of task.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e830	I registered with a certain question the representative of Greece's reaction to the fact that I also raised a little more general questions in connection with the processing of this message. Despite the fact that it may cause some irritation, I would like to continue that line from our side, and I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Progress Party: does he think it is wise in a vulnerability perspective not to accept the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on what the threat of climate change is? Does he think it's wise to spend more money on warfare than on development? Does he think that it is wise to go in to use the aid budget to reduce the taxes on alcohol and petrol at home? And does he think it is wise to let the United States undermine the role of the United Nations in the world and oppose the desire to exert pressure on the world's superpower to establish agreements to prevent the spread of biological and toxic weapons and small arms? In short, does the Progress Party believe that climate change, proliferation of weapons, increasing poverty and increasing military use of power at the expense of aid for development and stability are not important security policy challenges in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e838	Yes, the representative Thorkildsen – as usual from that party and that team – uses the opportunity to bring out SV's trademarks. They do that on every occasion and in any topic we discuss here at Stortinget. We spend more money on warfare than on aid projects, as she says, and she pulls in climate change. You might be able to discuss whether it belongs to this message. This message is based on a vulnerability perspective seen here in Norway and how to deal with vulnerability in Norway. Then I can't see that it has something to do with climate change. I cannot understand how we can draw it into a position like this, nor can I see that money has been spent in connection with this attitude to warfare at the expense of aid projects. So I really don't understand the question to the representative Thorkildsen, and I have to ask that she uses those arguments in another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e843	As many have mentioned, it is gratifying that there is a broad consensus on this communication. But in some areas, among other things, The Progress Party will focus on other points of view, and I will focus on what goes under the name TETRA networks, i.e. emergency contact, in the future. When the Progress Party wishes to assess this in addition to the information and documentation already available, and it also wishes to assess what goes under the name GSM, UMTS, GSM-R, it seems strange to me when asking for an assessment at the same time where both the development costs and the possibilities for use should be at an appropriate level. My question is then: What does the representative Width think is a sound level? Indeed, the use of these systems, with the knowledge we have today and with the studies that have already been carried out, means that the level of costs will be higher than the use of the TETRA network in Norway. And on the other hand, when you want to involve the defense and the defense's own systems, I also wonder if the costs will not actually be higher. I would like Mr Width to make a little more details of his view on the costs involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e852	The representative of Holstad calls for views on costs. Then I have to point out that there is nothing about the costs of the TETRA network in this setting. Maybe that's what it should have done, because then we would have had a comparison basis. When we say that we want to look at other options and solutions, there are other solutions and other opportunities in other countries, and we would like to draw lessons from that. In addition to that, we don't initially have anything against TETRA, but we think it deserves a better investigation, and I hope, as I said earlier, that we can get in connection with the proposition or propositions that come, and that we can get a cost assessment there, so that we have something to compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e857	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e860	This issue is about how we can organise society in such a way that the risk of unforeseen events or critical situations that could harm the population and our democracy is minimised. Of course, this is an increasingly challenging task in a modern society like ours. Over the last few generations, our way of life has changed dramatically, from a society where many were self-contained with what they needed to survive in the immediate vicinity of home and with the use of understandable low technology, to a situation where most things are transported over long distances, and where very much is done by the use of vulnerable technology that most of us do not understand the operation of if anything should go wrong. I'm going to venture the claim that what we live in this country has between the ears, the knowledge and the experience we have with us, and the ability we have to improvise in a difficult situation, is crucial to how we, as individuals, are actually able to deal with a critical situation. When the current goes, how do we keep warm? Do we want to fire in the oven? And how can we talk to each other when the battery on your mobile phone is flat? How is our role in relation to those around us when a crisis arises? What if a fatal accident occurs? Do we have social networks that we can contribute to when the accident is over, and do we see it as important to contribute to the community? In a crisis situation, will we only care about ourselves, or will we act in solidarity? For us as individuals, knowledge, experience and ability to improvise are good qualities when the accident is over, but something we should have thought through in advance. For example, it's okay to have the oven and pipe for the refuelling, a good relationship with the people we have around us, and maybe an extra charged cell phone battery. And now we're approaching the contact points between the individual and society. Our responsibility here in the house is to organize society so that the risk of accidents and crises is minimal, and then to be able to deal with the situation when it occurs. The social security message we are handling today is part of this job, but not all of it. Very many of the things we do here in the house are also about how vulnerable we allow society to become. The path to a less vulnerable society should be not only a technical debate on laws and regulations, supervisory systems and institutions, but also a debate on value. How much are we willing to bet on creating a safe society, and what risks are we willing to take? To what extent are we willing to let individual freedom go at the expense of common security? Have we created a society where money and profit are sought ahead of security and security? When discussing social security, it is important to ask ourselves what kind of society we are developing, whether we are making ourselves more vulnerable and exposed to dramatic events through the way we organize society. The answer to this is not a clear yes. On the one hand, technological progress is taking place that contributes to increased safety, and in a number of areas, we gain knowledge of causal links that enable us to prevent accidents. On the other hand, we live in a society where efficiency and speed are increasingly required in many areas and where fewer and fewer employees are required to solve the problems. Competitive pressure and the pursuit of profit can lead to reduced safety margins and a willingness to take increased risks. SV believes that in recent years, the drive to liberalise, deregulate and privatise in important areas may have weakened the robustness and preparedness of society. The power sector is an example of this. For example, in the pursuit of profitability: power stations capable of generating back-up power during periods of heavy load. The SV believes that the roll-out message should address more thoroughly the issues of deregulation, AS-certification and privatisation for preparedness in important areas. So to the real thing: there hasn't been a lot of disagreement between the different parties during the committee discussion of this message. On the contrary, there has been a broad consensus. SV believes that unfortunately the committees have spent too much time on the matter. The setting should have been given this summer, and we cannot see that the additional treatment period has led to something new that has been discovered. However, there are some points on which there is no agreement, and I would like to touch on a few of these. The majority believe that the National Safety Authority should be established as a Directorate under Defence with two reporting lines. SV does not share the majority’s views and will place NSM as a directorate under the Ministry of Justice. The pursuit of security and security must not conflict with fundamental democratic principles such as freedom of expression and legal certainty. This applies in all areas, including in the area that has been particularly focused in the last year, in the terrorist debate. In addition to imposing human losses and suffering on society, it is a major problem of terrorism that it creates fear and uncertainty that can help paralyze a society and weaken democracy and the protection of civil rights. This has been a widespread impact of terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001. In Norway, too, a number of proposals have been put forward since 11 September 2001 which would be contrary to fundamental civil rights if they were realised. This shows that society must be prepared not only for the physical damage that terror can cause us, but also for the damaged threats of terrorism can put democracy on the ground. We must be clear that one of the main objectives of social security work is to protect democracy and freedom. It is therefore essential that the institutions responsible for key safety activities should be subject to public control and governance and be as transparent as possible. SV believes that there are several examples of the lack of transparency and political control over defence activities. I'll mention one of these examples. The board of directors for the supervision of the secret services, the EOS Committee, criticised the treatment of a staff case where a person was deprived of the security clearance and thus his job. This case was up in Stortinget earlier this year. SV believes that this case demonstrates that legal certainty is not sufficiently ensured in the context of the withdrawal of security clearance. The Ministry of Defence and the current Supreme Command of the Defence, the Security Staff, which is to become the new NSM, showed with all clarity through their behaviour in the matter that the popularly elected control is not of great importance. It was also demonstrated by the city court ruling which opposed them that they do not carry out sufficient quality control of findings on the basis of which security clearance is withdrawn, and in other words they do not feel subject to the same laws and rules on investigation procedures and privacy as for example. The police are in their investigation. This is some of the background to SV proposing that this directorate should be under the Ministry of Justice. This year’s case also shows that there is a need to facilitate access to information on its own matters. SV therefore promotes proposals for increased access to own-account transparency in case of waiver of security clearance, proposal No. 9, and also proposals for the creation of an independent appeal body in cases of doubt, proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox These proposals are not to open doors. Derogation from security clearance is not mentioned in the Security Act, however, there is the issue of the security clearance award rule. But it's something else. I would ask that these proposals be accepted. It will strengthen legal certainty. In recent days’ debate has made it clear that the national safety authority is for the most part established as an organisation and that the people who are going to work there are in place. I want to challenge the Council of State on this very thing. Is NSM already established as a directorate and thus the decision of Stortinge has been taken? When did this happen, and in what way are those who are going to work there recruited? Does the Council of State think that this has been done in a tidy manner, even though a majority of the Defence Committee is open for further work on the NSM? There's probably some difference in view here in the hall of what "work on" really means. I don't see it as an advance of the decision. Norway has enormous resources in the sea areas over which we have sovereignty. These areas are seven times our land area and can feed 30 pst. by the population of Europe. It imposes a great responsibility on us. That we manage these resources in a truly sustainable way is a prerequisite for our legitimacy as administrators. It gives us the legitimate right to be responsible for the resources. This means that we have control of the resources, their extraction, and other factors that can be recorded. Control of ship traffic is one of these. In a few years, 300,000 tonnes will sail along this coast with oil cargo from Russian northern regions. A loss could have enormous consequences for our resources in these areas and for our legitimacy. It is gratifying that there is now a majority for an investigation into an environmental monitoring unit for the northern regions. It is also gratifying that there appears to be an international obligation to equip large parts of the world’s merchant fleet with automatic identification systems, as well as a Norwegian adaptation to that system. Defence and the Coast Guard have a significant role to play in maritime surveillance and traffic control. The Coast Guard Station operates traffic control centres for waters in need of control. Extensive cooperation between the Coastal Works and Defence is very important to further develop this system. It is also a major step forward that there now appears to be agreement on a crisis management command for the northern regions of Reitan at Bodø and strengthened control of maritime traffic in the northern regions. The review within the Committee has focused on the wide range of weapons of mass destruction available and clarified the responsibility of Norway to contribute internationally to the reduction and elimination of the proliferation of such weapons. In its examination, the Committee asks the Government to strengthen this work on weapons of mass destruction and also asks the Government to play a clear driving role in strengthening the international conventions against chemical and biological weapons. This is joyous. In its examination of the Communication, SV has also tried to make an impact on a proposal that the Government be asked to work internationally for a rapid ban on nuclear weapons. It didn't work out, and it's a little disappointing. It should logically be that the majority of the Storting who will have an international ban on class bombs and land mines because these are inhumane, also working for the abolition of nuclear weapons. Over 90 pst. the population is against nuclear weapons, and in this case the majority in this room is not in line with the population. I would like to raise the SV's proposal and would like to point out that in proposal No. 9 is the ‘safety declaration’, which shall in effect read ‘safety clearance’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e906	Kjetil Bjørklund has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e911	The greatest pleasure in this case may be that SV is in this setting. In my opinion, SV has gone a long way from the party in its time to being formed and as late as 1998 it voted against the preventive security service law, and to agree today on almost all points. It's a proposal against nuclear weapons that one would like to support. There are two proposals, which the chairperson of the Defence Committee believes are already included in Section 25, which of course can be supported. And there are proposals for office placements that can be discussed. But SV has come very far, and they write among others. in its observations that one cannot only use military means to combat terrorism. In other words, SV now accepts the need to use the intelligence system to combat terrorism. Very good! My first question to the representative Bjørklund is: Is it that September 11th and other events have now influenced SV to turn around and now bet on intelligence and security services? Is that a fact that we can now record and take note of? The second issue concerns the proposal for a third safeguard category, which is also supported by the Progress Party. Is SV aware of the costs involved? There is talk here – without evidence – if you want to impose a hundred percent protection obligation, about 5-10 billion kroner. Where will SV take this money from? Don't you see the conflicts that will occur when all these people who are going to be called into hospitals and hospitals, you don't see this whole problem in relation to the employees? Is it really the case that SV is still on this third protection category?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e918	I'm registering Halvorsen's invitation, and I just have to say that Halvorsen knows very well what the SV's attitude towards dealing with terrorism is. I can quote from our comment, which states that the members of the Socialist Left believe that ‘The fight against terrorism is important in order to safeguard Norwegian society too, but believes that since 11 September 2001 too much attention has been paid to the possibilities of using military instruments against terrorism’. Furthermore, we point out that the Government of St.prp. No 55 for 2000-2001 states that: ‘there is much greater scope for applying the full spectrum of security policy instruments, primarily those: political, legal, political, political, diplomatic, economic, informational, humanitarian and military;’ and ‘the use of military power constitutes only one such instrument and, in most situations, would hardly be the dominant means of security policy’. These members believe that this perspective must also be reflected in budgetary contexts by looking at the relationship between the resources allocated for military purposes and the resources used in other contexts to prevent or resolve conflicts’. [[1]] [[2]] [[3]] [[4]] [[5]] [[6]] [[7]] [[8]] Intelligence is a natural tool to detect terrorism, but for us it is vital that intelligence is made with the necessary democratic control to avoid abuse. With regard to the issue of a third protection category, we are in a situation where the level of participation in the general protection obligation in Norway is strongly decreasing and there are many problems that it may be natural to try to solve by establishing alternative forms of protection. We want that investigation to clarify whether it is possible to establish a third category that could give us the extra security of society that we depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e935	Energy shortages have often been associated with welfare developments in society, and the energy sector is today characterised by many suppliers who share the risk among several actors. We have a number of power plants that are private, and also public. And we have a number of actors in the oil sector, oil producers that are both private and partly public, and energy supply shows that it's the only factor that has a direct connection with the development of wealth in society, if you look at what research reports show. I want to quote from the setting where SV writes: ‘In a number of areas, the public has given up governance in recent years through liberalisation and transition to market-based solutions, including this energy sector. These members consider that this may have impaired the ability of preparedness in important areas.’.» Is it not, however, that liberalisation and the provision of governance have led to increased competition and that increased competition has again resulted in lower production costs and better use of production capacity? And finally, in order to cope with this, it has been necessary for these actors/producers to improve technological development. How, then, can this development in the energy sector weaken preparedness when liberalisation has de facto led to improved technology – more energy distributed among more actors? I would rather say the opposite: it has strengthened preparedness in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e947	In the SV’s view, the competitive situation and market adaptation of the energy front have significantly reduced the robustness of the system, reducing the margins to a greater extent than should have happened. The question of whether energy resources should be under public or private control is really another question, and I suggest that there be another debate. But in our opinion, the margins are significantly weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e954	In the SV's view, in terms of the number of civil defence circles, the number 24, which is the correct one, is not the Government proposal 18+2, namely 20, or the 27 of the Progress Party, which coincides with the number of police districts. So it might be interesting to hear about the number 24 and its background. SV says that 24 essentially correspond to the geographical pattern of the police districts. Yes, why not then use this in full, with 27, as the Progress Party suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e962	It's true, as the representative Bredvold says, SV wants a larger number of circuits than what's going to be the result. The number 24 is selected from the number of police districts, with the exception of Oslo, where there are four today. We think this should be enough of one, in relation to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e967	In the debate so far, there are several speakers who have said that there is a message of considerable weaknesses we have to deal with. That is quite right. The message has weaknesses in a good number of points. But I still want to say that I think the most important thing, after all, is that the government has been given this message and has started the work. I would like to commend the Minister of Justice for having had a fairly long-standing commitment to this. I myself joined the last Bondevik government with the Minister of Justice, at a time when he was very committed to this issue and took the initiative to set up the Vulnerability Committee. So we were pretty early about to get started with a job that is absolutely necessary to get started. I also think there is reason to point out the value of the fact that there is such a broad consensus in this room about this work that is now to be continued. And then I get to the most important of all. It is that this work is now being followed up. It is crucial – not what has been done so far, but that it is put into practice, and that it is followed up in the individual areas. I just want to make a small comment to the Progress Party, who wants to return this message and has justified it, among other things. This is because we have too narrow a definition of the concept of terrorism. Thus, when it is to be exemplified by the Progress Party, it is possible to use the poisoning of contraband goods, alcohol or drugs as an example of a type of organised crime that the Progress Party believes should have been taken into account. I have to say that is a very clear basis for return. There are three themes that need to focus on working for a less vulnerable society. First of all, it is crisis prevention and accident prevention, it is preparedness, and it is dealing with situations. Prevention is, in my view, the basic and the most important thing here. In a number of areas, we experience that society is becoming more vulnerable, that we are facing increasingly new situations. For the Centre Party, there has been a main objective, among other things: improving coastal safety. A more demanding climate and Russian oil transport, among others make this necessary, and I am pleased that there is a majority who will now go in to establish a crisis management command for North Norway at Reitan. However, if good prevention is to be achieved, it is also necessary to follow it up through budgetary measures. Prevention in relation to maritime traffic will not be good enough for as long as we are going to spend tens of years completing electronic navigational charts or marking fairways along the coast, which is another theme that is absolutely necessary to prevent maritime crises and disasters. It is precisely in these areas that resources have to be deployed and it has to be monitored in budgetary terms. This is also true in relation to railway accidents. I guess we all remember the tragic Asta accident. To follow-up in relation to safety on e.g. The railways are crucial, and the most important thing we can do to prevent similar disasters in that sector. There is an increasing demand for efficiency improvement and cost reductions in several sectors. The economy experiences it, and the public sector experiences it. And this is at the expense of maintenance, at the expense of standby and at the expense of staff. This is felt by industry in relation to reduced stocks of food. It is not maintained in the same way as in the past, for example: for economic reasons. The authorities' efforts have also been stepped down in this area. Therefore, the Centre Party is concerned that these aspects also need to be ensured. Similarly, the Centre Party considers that it is necessary and important that the power supply needs to be made more robust, that critical points need to be corrected and that long-term analyses need to be carried out so that climate challenges can best be met in this sector as well. And this is where North Norway and parts of the West are particularly vulnerable, and priority needs to be given. Once the crisis has arisen, it is essential that it be handled in the best possible way. This requires, first of all, good preparation for the types of crisis that may arise. It implies, as also pointed out in the Communication, that from municipalities up to different state agencies, preparation for what may arise in their territory must be undertaken and responsibility for planning and managing it. Appropriate organisation of crisis management is also required. I see that there may be different opinions about how to organise the Civil Defense. The centre party, acting by a majority, has applied to 20 civil defence circles. Like the chairman of the committee, I and the Central Party also believe that there might be reason to think about how to divide Northland into two, that is, where the boundary is going to go. Finally, I would like to say quite briefly that the chairperson of the Defence Committee expressed the need for stronger central governance in the event of crises. I would say that better national coordination is necessary, not necessarily better national governance. I believe that governance can best be managed as close to the crisis as possible, while coordination, training and resource allocation must take place at a higher level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1000	The finalisation of the Vulnerability Communication today involves the launch of a comprehensive process to further strengthen the capacity of our society to withstand and deal with different types of crises. Traditional civil protection has been in transition since the end of the Cold War. In order to get a broad review of the security challenges facing our society, Prime Minister Bondevik's first government, as the representative of Enoxsen pointed out, is the so-called Vulnerability Committee. The committee gave a number of recommendations on how to strengthen society’s security and preparedness. The government of Stoltenberg then took the initiative to carry out a broad review of its operational rescue and preparedness resources. This sample did not recommend a comprehensive restructuring of rescue and emergency resources in Norway, but made recommendations on some adjustments. In addition to the recommendations of these two samples, the terrorist incidents of 11 September 2001 gave us a brutal reminder of the security challenges we face today. The reports of the two samples and the experience of 11 September 2001 have all been a central part of the basis of the overall report for treatment today. The cold end of the war and the development of a technology-based society with a number of vulnerable features confront us with changing preparedness challenges. The way we live, the way we organize our society, and the world that surrounds us, is inextricably linked to the question of what kind of preparedness society must have. A secure society is part of our prosperity. Norway is not facing a military threat today, and the threat of terrorism is considered low. The fact that a threat is low does not mean that it can be ignored. There is a need for vigilance in relation to what could pose threats to our country. Society could be confronted with new threats and major unwarranted pressures. We therefore need to work systematically to strengthen social security even in periods when we do not seem to face any imminent danger. In addition to the traditional security policy challenges, social security work must also face potential threats from non-governmental actors and ensure that critical infrastructure is interrupted. A feature of this message is its width. However, it does not aim to meet all the security challenges facing society. Safety work in society is characterised by continuity, and later issues in the field of social security have been raised by the Storting. I'll refer you here to St.meld. No 47 for 2000-2001, on telecommunications security and preparedness in a telecommunications market with free competition, as just one example. The extraordinary appropriations granted by the Stortinget following the terrorist incidents of 11 September 2001, promoted by both the government of Stoltenberg and the Bondevik government in several rounds, are other examples, where shortcomings in our preparedness were corrected. It was necessary to retake something that had been left in rest in many ways for a long time. It is essential now to create continuity in the work of social security and to develop mechanisms to ensure that society’s preparedness is comprehensive. In order to ensure continuity, I have noticed that in its position in several fields, the Committees propose that the Government return to the Storting with matters in the area of social security. The government will come back with propositions, including: the starting point is a comprehensive concept covering prevention, preparedness and crisis management. I agree with the Committees that ICT security, the petroleum sector, nutrition and food security, drinking water safety and the use of weapons of mass destruction should pay particular attention to further work. Social security work depends on the principles of responsibility, proximity and equality. We need to take advantage of the professionalism of those environments that have an ongoing responsibility and to create the best possible basis for the effort and cooperation we are so dependent on when facing extraordinary situations. There is also a need for good coordination. The Sem Declaration states that the overall responsibility for the civil security of society is enshrined in the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice shall ensure proper coordination of national preparedness and ensure that the security and preparedness work in society is comprehensive. The Ministry of Justice's responsibility for civil security and the Ministry of Defence's responsibility for our military security provide a good basis for developing a comprehensive concept for prevention, preparedness and crisis management. A good whole is also created through close cooperation between civil and military authorities, not least through a number of cooperation forums and joint meeting places, such as: the proposed NSM will then mean that it has been submitted by the majority of the Committee. I will continue the review of the relationship between defence and civil protection. I think it's very important. Among other things, relevant terrorist scenarios, where it may be appropriate to allocate the Armed Forces Authority, will be reviewed and clarified. I remember that we had such a scenario last fall, where the government of Stoltenberg found it necessary to launch a fighter aircraft standby, with perfectly clear procedures around this and with perfectly clear tasks. This is just a reminder for all of us how we have to think about other scenarios as well. In this scenario work, I will also make sure that we have contact with the scenario thinking that the defense has in its work when they are working on the new long-term plan. The majority of the Committee supports the Communication’s proposal for the establishment of a permanent secretariat for the intelligence, surveillance and security resources. I agree that such a secretariat must have broad analytical competence in its work, and on a general basis I will state that such coordination of our intelligence and surveillance resources is vital in order to detect things in time. It is enough to point out the brutal experience of the Americans on the lack of coordination and coordination of their very comprehensive intelligence and security apparatus, which has emerged since 11 September. A number of measures have been taken to address this issue. This permanent secretariat is an important contribution in our country. I have noted the Committees' assumption that the new Directorate of Preparedness and Social Security must be set up as quickly as possible. I'll take care of this and assume that this really has to be a new directorate. I have noticed that the committees have asked that the overall responsibility for fire and major accidents be assigned to the new directorate. This will be followed up. The issue of localisation will be addressed in the monitoring report expected at Christmas times, together with the discussion of any other tasks to be assigned to the Directorate. I would also like to make an effort to achieve an effective implementation of the changes in civil protection. I will take the initiative as soon as possible to assess the overall school situation for civil protection. I want to see this assessment in conjunction with the Committee's wish to strengthen the training of fire service personnel, especially part-time workers. We are totally dependent on the fact that the crews responsible for handling accidents in the day-to-day environment are also well equipped to deal with large and complex situations. Reinforced training of fire service personnel can provide a significant emergency value, and the civil defence schools can thus complement the Teldsund Fire School. I want to come back to the Stortinget with an estimate of the costs of enhanced education in this field in the same assessment as the review of the school situation for civil protection. In cooperation with the Minister of Defence, I would like to elaborate on how to follow up the decision of the Storting regarding the establishment of a crisis management command for the northern regions of the Landsdelskommando North Norway on Reitan, as underlined by the Committee. The challenges faced by weapons of mass destruction have called for increasing attention in recent years, both nationally and through our international commitment. In order for mass-destructive agents to be used, a technological, a resource and an ideological threshold must be crossed. The technological threshold is becoming more and more affordable, in line with the development of a knowledge-based society. We get daily reminders of that. Recently, terrorists have shown us that they can have a lot of resources. The ideological threshold – the will to make use of such means – is already over. The examples of various suicides, even in the Nordic countries, as we have seen in Finland, are a very cash and direct reminder of this. So we have to assume that as well today as in the future, there will be people, groups and states who will be willing to make use of such resources. Our efforts must therefore be directed towards preventing estimates from taking place, and ensuring that we have well-adapted resources to deploy in case an estimate should nevertheless be made. An important means of preventing radioactive agents from crossing the border is to deploy detection equipment at our cross-border crossings. The size of funds allocated to such equipment and, in addition, other important purposes, in the summer of the Inst. S. No 252 for 2001-2002, cf. St. pp. No 54 for 2001-2002. As a result of this allocation, the border control of Storskog will be strengthened. The government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with regard to the issue of further tightening of border controls. I comment on this, among other things. in the case of radiological means of combat. The Communication provides for a wide-ranging work on prevention and management, which is further reinforced by the Committee's comments. I have taken initiatives against several agencies to identify how the efforts of different agencies can be strengthened to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. I would like to discuss with my colleagues how Norway's driving role in this field can be further strengthened internationally. In this context, I would like to say that in such a perspective, I have made close contact with the various bodies of the European Union in this area and with NATO. It has been told me that I am supposed to have been the first Minister of Justice to visit NATO to look at civil protection. If true, there is only one indication of the will to allow this field to enter into the process that, among other things. The rapporteur and other speakers have expressed themselves here today. Long-term and targeted work has established a comprehensive system of binding international arrangements. Much has been achieved. The chemical and biological weapons conventions have given us a total ban on such weapons. The government is concerned that further nuclear disarmament needs to be facilitated. Following the decisions of the Conference of Supervisors on the Non-Proliferation Agreement in 2000, the nuclear powers have committed themselves unequivocally to the complete elimination of their nuclear arsenals. Strengthening the multilateral agreement and various other cooperation arrangements for non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament are a cornerstone of the fight against international terrorism. There is a broad international recognition of the need to strengthen both political and economic aspects of this work. We are working actively, bilaterally and multilaterally on the Norwegian side, in a series of forums for universal membership of the various disarmament and non-proliferation regimes. We are also actively involved in strengthening the control of compliance with existing agreements and developing new arrangements and agreements where today's arrangements are not good enough or lacking. We are also committed, through various support measures, to helping to improve the ability of other countries to implement their contractual obligations. In this work we have so far chosen to focus in particular on Russia, the Baltic States and the former Soviet republics of Central Asia. I will also keep an eye on the state of our national preparedness in this field, among others. by ensuring that there is good coordination between the different professional environments with regard to all types of action against weapons of mass destruction. I have noticed that the Committees believe that the exemption system for key response groups should be reviewed with a view to up to 250 police officers being involved in the Defence. I agree that there is a need for a review of the exemption system, which is also signalled in the message. The contribution of volunteers to the work on social security is very important, which is also underlined in the Communication and in the Committee's comments. A clarification of which rescue and preparedness tasks they are to participate in and which functions they may have been in has been a topic for some time, and as a follow-up to the setting, I will put further force behind this work. The Ministry of Justice has already sent a letter to the main rescue services and specified that the voluntary organisations should be the primary resources of the rescue services. I would also like to work to further develop a national resource register on rescue and preparedness resources, so that we can better understand which rescue and preparedness resources are available in different places in the country. Increased transport of oil along the Norwegian coast demands, inter alia: to the monitoring of the Norwegian coastline. The Government has taken note of the Committee's proposal to investigate the establishment of an environmental monitoring unit to strengthen the monitoring of maritime traffic in the northern regions and will follow up the proposal. The government has noticed that the Committee is concerned about how society should deal with the effects of anthropogenic climate change. The government has taken this on board, initially through the implementation of comprehensive research programmes. In parallel with research, I would like to see strategies developed for how society plans and implement measures to prevent different impacts. I would like to say that the message provides an excellent starting point for the work we are facing in the future. But I want to say – in the good tone that is created by many – that we have a significant mental challenge. Many have heard me use the famous bread crumb, and I take it again. When I said last year, after 11 September in a message to Kåre Willoch that it was a good idea to have broken bread in the house corresponding to the need for a weekend, I was in a newspaper whose name should not be mentioned, subjected to the claim that I created fear of war. As Minister of Justice, I should have said a well-known social stop in the same newspaper in an interview – and it wasn't the newspaper's fault, it was the social summit's view – rather ask everyone to report everything suspicious to the police. I'll try to sum this up. We have a significant challenge in what I want to call the 7-Eleven mentality, and it completely independent of age. We've become so used to it that we can go out and buy everything that exists at any time, and it's in stock. Yes, we have a challenge at a time when, for example, Medical production is centralised in such a way that we need to think about how to ensure that we have the necessary emergency storage facilities in our own country. This 7-Eleven mentality, which is not age-determined – it's not age-determined, I think it's socially controlled – addresses a challenge for all of us, and it can be formulated like this: we're going to live a normal life, but how can we make sure that we sometimes – a few minutes – stop in such a way that we think about the unusual thing? At least we have an obligation to make sure that our emergency situations, our civil defence, our defence and everyone else, are able to think that way. And that's exactly what's good in Norway, that we have a basic health in our emergency settings, in our non-governmental organizations, in the civil defence, the Home Security and Defence, to think that way. It's this energy we're going to use, it's this energy that's also in the message. And if there's anyone in doubt that I'm going to follow up on this, it's just to follow along. It was no coincidence that in my time, when I commissioned Kåre Willoch with the Vulnerability Committee, I said to him: Create an investigation and create creative unrest in the population! And I hope that today's debate will continue such creative unrest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1076	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1079	The Labour Party has chosen to join a broad majority on the further work on civil protection and vulnerability prevention. That means compromises, that means some concrete clarifications, but not least, in a number of areas, we are asking the Government to come back to the Storting. I first want to ask the Council of State whether he is prepared to come back to Stortinget with the issues mentioned in the setting, and where we ask the Government to come back. In the light of the recent discussion on the National Safety Authority, let me point out from the Labour Party that we are following the principle that the Government itself determines which department is subject to various directorates at all times. There has always been general practice in Norwegian democracy that the Government organises its own work. It characterizes as far as our whole attitude. We haven't been involved in how the government organizes its work. We have also accepted that although the National Security Authority is administratively bound by the Ministry of Defence, there is a marked line to the Ministry of Justice in civil matters which became part of what is currently the National Security Authority, that is, the Security Staff, in the context of the 1998 Preventive Security Act. Taking into account what has emerged from Stortinget’s pulpit here, both from my side and from several others, on the history of the treatment of the national safety authority – decisions taken in February 1998, proposals in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, the position of the Defence Committee in June 2001, that the Defence Committee was given a broad and thorough review of the work on the Directorate when we were in the Security Staff on 2 March, etc. – I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that the preparatory work now carried out by the Government in relation to the National Safety Authority is within the tradition and habit of the government in preparing work-in-progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1086	I'm going to answer the first question first, if we want to follow up. Yes, of course we will. I did not include all the points in the committee settings in my article. It was not intended to be due to the restriction of speaking time. But I guess I'm aware of that. I started my post by saying that I see the committee position, the debate and the history as the beginning of something that is vital to us. And of course, when Stortinget does a good job in committee, it's followed up. Now it's the way to be very precise and definite in some places, and in other places you're not. But we're going to take the Storting seriously, so that this is the debate that we all deserve on the various points that are formulated. As far as the National Security Authority is concerned, my colleague, the Minister of Defence, will come up with a later statement. But I am well aware that the safety authority was established under the Law of 20 March 1998 No. 10 on preventive safety services. I am also well aware of the letter sent by the two committees to the Royal Ministry of Justice and Police on 21 June of this year, which mentioned a number of activities that could be prepared, but not to have a major impact. In this context, the national safety authority is referred to. There is also a reference of the National Security Authority in the budget proposal of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. And in practice, the implementation of NSM in its present form will be in the budgetary procedure for 2003. It hasn't taken place, so it's Size Control. But I expect that my colleague, the Minister of Defence, will elaborate on this in the necessary way, so that there will be no misunderstanding that one has worked the way that is known and that is agreed and that is to be between the different parties in the constitutional process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1093	The Council of State pointed out in its statement that the message has a large width and that it has taken a lot of time into account. It has made me feel that I have something right in my presentation of the message itself, that it has somehow slipped out a little, because it has become a lot, and it has become little about much. But on the other hand, I'm very pleased when the Council of State says they're continuing to work in the ministry, and that they're going to come back with propositions. There I hope that we will be more specific about what I mentioned earlier, and what I think is missing in the communication of concrete measures and concrete proposals. I think I'll get there, and then I'm happy so far. Finally, I would like to point out one thing that I would like to ask the Council of State, and that is something that he has not mentioned, the voluntary organizations. We have a number of non-governmental organisations in this country that do an excellent job – and that on a voluntary basis. It doesn't cost society anything. These organisations are cheap, and they are significant. As an example, I can point to the Red Cross. I have just been informed – and I would like the Council of State to cancel it – that much of that, for example. The Red Cross operates, shall be transferred to the Civil Defense. It's okay if I get it cancelled. I would like to point out that it is very important, as I said, with these voluntary organisations. I would like the Council of State to say something positive about it. Similarly, organisations are dependent on remuneration, they depend on grants, and they depend on covering their remuneration when out on these exercises. I would like to know if the Council of State has any views on this, and how he believes that these organisations should be able to cover their expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1100	First to the first question. This Council of State has a parliamentary history over 20 years ago, when I, as the Grand Representative of the Left, inspected all the refuge rooms in Trondheim. It was a very special experience. This special experience has never let go of the roof in me later, even at the time when it was not very in conversation about civil protection in the Stortinget. I'm very glad that now there's a broad will to do it, no matter where you belong. It's actually a health sign, and it's very positive. I'm going to say in the good spirit that the representative Width also added when he had finished the polemics against me earlier today, that there's a common challenge, because in a number of areas we actually have more to agree on than what we need to disagree about, just to make sure that our society is protected. I feel that this is the basic tone. As far as the second question is concerned, whether I will at any time remove tasks from non-governmental organisations and place them under civil protection. Not at all! It would be a very strange idea for a government council like me, which to those degrees has a background in voluntary organizational work, and which has seen with great enthusiasm, for example. Our unique rescue concept, where we are just working together between public agencies and non-governmental organisations, and who have experienced the enthusiasm of volunteering when civil defence teams are all working on their own at a command station, or not to talk about HV teams working hard at the house they use. This is, of course, an inestimable resource in Norway. I want to say it this way: if someone escapes a consulting agency near to suing away that enthusiasm, we've really undermined both defence and civil protection in this country, and I'm going to actively fight it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1109	I will give the Council of State a tribute for a good and committed post. I also have an unusual sense of 'creative unrest'. In recent days, the Minister of Defence has been criticized for having implemented the establishment of the National Security Authority in advance of the Storting decision. SV takes note of this. Our objection to the creation of the NSM is that it is established as a directorate of the Ministry of Defence. SV believes that the national safety authority must be anchored in the civil sector, under the Ministry of Justice. We realize that we are not going to have a majority for this, but we are also promoting two other proposals here today. I would like to ask the Council of State what he thinks about these proposals, which means that we have a principle that everyone who is deprived of security clearance should be guaranteed the right to be transparent in their case and not be exposed to the type of Kafka treatment we have seen in the previously mentioned personnel case that was dealt with in the Stortinge in ours. Or does the Council of State consider that legal certainty is well taken care of in this type of case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1118	First of all, about NSM: I explained the situation as I see it. This will be supplemented by my colleague, the Minister for Defence. There is a difference between preparing and establishing, but the required millimetre details will be clarified by the Minister of Defence. With regard to the second question, I agree that we have a security law that has the possibilities that have been raised here earlier today. I would like to add that Stortinget has also obtained a safety valve that is in the EOS selection of Stortinget, which in fact has no limitation in time or space regarding the type of questions raised here. The limitation made for the EOS Committee, which has been made in an open-ended debate, is not to act in such a way as to damage the relationship between our secret services and other countries in terms of source security – and it should be lacking that we did not pull that line. If you can't work together in secret services and be safe on the sources and informants, you just don't have any secret services at all. It is in their nature and their being that it is clear. That balance sheet was also drawn to Stortinget in plenary in a very tidy and proper way. So I don't have anything to add to the arrangements we have. It is true that if the arrangements do not reach, they will be tested through the practice of life. But let me end by saying that I have full confidence in our security services, and I want to see it as a very important task that they should have back coverage. This concerns both the security service that will be called the NSM, the one in the Defence Intelligence Service, and the one in the Police Security Service. It is vital that they have both good competence and that they merge, and it is very important to me that we get this permanent secretariat that is mentioned earlier today. If we skip this, if we rotate the security information, we create problems that are far bigger than anything else. – It was to answer something other than what the representative asked for, but I took the opportunity to do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1128	I liked the Council of State's reasoning about the 7-Eleven mentality. If it's the case that the Council of State is busy raising people to have enough crack bread in the house for a weekend, then it could be a good place to start – and not necessarily fight to extend the opening time in the same shops. The Vulnerability Committee delivers some serious arguments for organising NSM under the Ministry of Justice. They say the following in the NOU: ‘In addition, under the Security Act, the responsibility of the Defence Security Service is greatly extended in relation to the past. Thus, municipalities are included in the scope of the law, access to... monitoring is extended, the concept of object security is introduced and the personnel security service is centralised.’ They go on to say, ‘There is a significant risk that there may be strong counter-conceptions as the consequences of the Security Act become widely known...’» Furthermore, they refer to a selection in the Ministry of Defence which, on 30 September 1998, presented a proposal for a future organisation in which the NSM was to be organised as a stand-alone administrative body directly under the Ministry of Defence. This did not recommend the Vulnerability Committee, which has therefore recommended an organisation under the Ministry of Justice. This is supported by the Center Party and SV in the configuration. I would like to have the Minister of Justice's comment and reason why, despite the heavy arguments put forward by the Vulnerability Committee, the organisation has been chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1147	The Willoch Committee wanted first of all its own department, a new department – let's call it a Ministry of the Interior. Nobody in this room has actually gone into it. Those who have been closest to it are well the Progress Party, which today has proposed to set up a directorate of the Prime Minister's office which has such an extent that it is almost approaching a department. When it comes to the Willoch committee's reasoning, I see them in the light of this force collection. With regard to the situation in the Government, we've been through the relationship between military and civil authority, and we've been looking at the tasks that NSM is going to have. A good part is NATO-related, and a good part is, as Mr. Enoxen says, aimed at civil society. That's why we've said it's administratively below the Ministry of Defence, underlined by the Committee, but there's two reporting lines, so that in fact in this Directorate you can get a meeting place between the civil and the military. And such meeting places in this national safety authority are very important. We will come back to this, based on the basic idea that I perceive that the representative of Enoxsen has, and that I perceive that the committee has, namely that in ordinary situations we have civil law, in crisis situations we have emergency legislation, and then we have a landscape between civil law where the police are the social security authority and have different resources at our disposal, and a preparedness law that we will go into. That's what I mentioned in my post when I talked about different scenarios. And then we're going to go into situations like this. mass sabotage in the country, where, following a particular decision-making process, it may be appropriate to allocate the Armed Police Authority in order to avert a situation, which is very important to obtain. This is a grey zone that we can't have. It is – as I said in my post – very important that we can go through with both pressure and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1158	A round of clarifications: As I understand it, the EOS Committee cannot reverse decisions of the Government not to provide transparency in the background for the withdrawal of security clearance. Today you have to go to the courtroom in order to clarify this, which has been the case in our case, which has been mentioned several times. It is precisely to remedy this that two of our proposals are being presented. Can the Council of State comment on this view of the mandate of the EOS Committee, and therefore the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1165	As I see it, the EOS Committee can formulate a criticism. That criticism may others choose to ignore or follow. But because the EOS committee is the body of the Storting, it basically has quite wide powers to operate. I gave an example of how the Storting itself, which established the body, made a restriction on their jurisdiction, namely to ensure that in the contact between secret services one had to have a source protection, so that Norwegian secret services should not lose contact with others. In Stortingen, there is a situation where you can go into how the body works. It's created a precedent, but I don't want to speculate further than that. It's a special and important organ The Storting has put in place. In a vital area, i.e. to ensure the functioning of our secret services, a practice has been established. So we know that the sample in other areas can express a criticism. It's known, and it gives a reason for others to be able to relate to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1172	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1175	On the afternoon of 23 October, the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee gave their opinion on the matter under consideration. This matter is very comprehensive and important, and there has been a lot of work on it in Stortinget. On the same night we gave the setting, we got a grotesque illustration of how important and topical this is. We saw how vulnerable modern society is. That same night we saw on the news that Chechen terrorists had taken hundreds of hostages to a theater in Moscow. Only days earlier had there been a terrible bomb explosion in Bali, even an act committed by terrorists. Both of these episodes are examples of how vulnerable modern society is and how arbitrary terror is. The traditional perception of total defence has been the organisation of civil society's tasks and the support of defence in a war situation. Of course, this is still an important part of the overall defence concept, but in today's society, the defence's support for civil society and civil protection is a very important part of total defence. As expressed in the setting: ‘In the event of major disasters or terrorist attacks, the defence will have to be an operational resource for the police, health services, transport, rescue teams, etc.’.» The Workers' Party believes that the interdependence between the Defence and the Civilian did not come out well in the paper. The government has therefore been asked by the Stortinget to discuss this cooperation and to present it in an appropriate form to the Stortinget. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that under no circumstances does it mean that the defence will be used against the people. The point is that the defence is an important support function when the crisis is a fact. Work to make our society less vulnerable is becoming more important and important, while also becoming more difficult and more difficult. In the past, threats were clearer and easier to deal with. But now, when we get passenger planes that are used as bombers, accidents like ‘Cursk’ or Chernobyl, car bombs that hit civilians, trains that could explode on Lillestrøm, or hackers that attack a computer system, it shows us that the world is anything but simple, and that our society is vulnerable. In the past, we knew who the enemy was, what it was capable of, and where it held. Today, this is far from obvious, as illustrated by these examples. I am therefore pleased that the two committees together have asked the Government to take on board a comprehensive concept of prevention, preparedness and crisis management and that the Government will return to the Stortinge with a concrete approach in several areas. Of course, the work on social security has not been completed after this case has been completed in this Chamber. The task of implementing today's decision and the notification's intentions is great and demanding. It is a work involving almost all departments and all policy areas. But precisely because of the breadth, complexity and importance, I am pleased that there is a broad majority standing together in the position, just as when the implementation proposition was dealt with in the spring session. In a small country such as Norway, social security is an area worthy of this breadth. I am therefore pleased that we have managed to create this consensus, so that we can achieve the goal of the Communication: The road to a less vulnerable society – with or without the break bread to the Council of State. In the Communication, the majority is committed to the establishment of a new Directorate for Preparedness and Social Security and asks the Government of the forthcoming Communication of Oversight to return to that issue. So will I.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1202	Modern society is vulnerable. The threat picture consists of both accidental incidents such as floods, forest fires or rapids and deliberate incidents such as terrorist attacks and international crime. Therefore, it is important that preparedness is so coordinated that the actions of the various sectors in the area of security and vulnerability appear as a whole. Both the Defence and the Coast Guard have a significant role to play in maritime surveillance. The government agrees with the Vulnerability Committee that Norway, as a coastal nation, with sovereign rights in large sea areas, must have good maritime surveillance capabilities. In this context, it is worth noting that the Coast Guard plays a central role. Increased fishing surveillance in Norwegian and international waters, increased focus on the environment, and the imminent expansion of territorial waters from four to twelve miles will give Coast Guard major work tasks in the years to come. It is also gratifying that the Ministry of Defence, together with the departments and departments concerned, has assessed possible measures to improve the coordination of civil and military coastal surveillance resources. The establishment of a traffic centre in connection with e.g.: the Vardø radio is visible evidence of this and will be a good future action. The same will be the setting up of an environmental monitoring unit for the northern regions. Reitan must have an important role in the future as a centre for preparedness and monitoring. It is necessary to establish a crisis management command for the northern regions of Retan, as proposed by the Committees as a whole in their vote. Many suggest that there will be an ever-increasing transport of dangerous cargo in the waters off the entire Norwegian coast, including maritime transport of oil from north-west Russia production areas to markets in Europe. Norwegian-Russian cooperation on alert and rescue cooperation has been established on the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding concluded in 2000. The government says in St.meld. No 17 that it will take the initiative to include maritime transport of dangerous goods in the alert procedures. This is important, and it should happen quickly. The defence has resources for maritime monitoring and monitoring of ship traffic along the Norwegian coast — and it is a good prevention measure. But surveillance is not just to look at satellite images; synergies between resources are necessary. We must therefore get past the levels of bureaucracy as soon as possible. Home security has special qualities, not least local knowledge and presence, which means that HV departments have the potential to be an important resource within their security and preparedness efforts. However, if the potential of the Home Security system is to be realised, home security departments and crews are required to provide training and equipment that enables them to handle different types of tasks. However, for Home Affairs to have a useful role in preparedness work, it is important for the Government to clarify how the Home Security resources should also be used in the context of civil crises. I would therefore ask the Government to inform Storting about this in an appropriate manner. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a matter for which the Minister of Defence has been unjustly criticised in the newspaper yesterday. The daily newspaper claims that long before the Stortinget has adopted anything concerning the national safety authority, the defence shall have allegedly started a reorganisation of the NSM. The daily paper refers to a letter signed by the Chief of Security Staff of the Defence Command, which contains descriptions of the organisational structure, and named persons are listed in posts which do not formally exist. The problem with linking this letter to the Minister of Defence is that the letter was dated 9 April 2001, several months before the current Council of State and the current government joined. The statement in the newspaper yesterday is wrong from end to end. It is today the Stortinget decides to set up NSM as its own directorate. Therefore, of course, no decision has been taken before this is adopted at this meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1228	The Progress Party believes that organized crime today is a major and growing threat to our society. We believe it is important to get the widest possible understanding of the extent of this crime. There should also be research into the economic implications of this crime for our society. We must focus on the extent of this crime in terms of economics. Furthermore, it is interesting to see how this crime affects Norwegian business and also public acquisitions. It is important to see which research methods will not only be elucidating but could also be preventive. The Progress Party sees it as probable that in the future civil-military cooperation will be far more extensive than it has been up to now. We are like the Vulnerability Committee of the opinion that it would be desirable to simplify the existing procedures for the use of military forces in support of the police. When using military forces in peacetime, this will always be after requisition by the police. We believe that it is appropriate to further assess the breakdown of the military forces that, when requested in peacetime, will operate solely under the responsibility of the police officers. Consideration should be given to the existence, where appropriate, of departments which may be entrusted with their own operational responsibilities, with the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Defence following the political approval of the commission from the police authority. The Progress Party believes that this is a problem that is also relevant in the Norwegian territory. Like the Vulnerability Committee, we want a thorough investigation into the appropriateness of the command relations between the police and the defence in relation to the various serious situations that society may face. With regard to the issue of refugees and asylum seekers, the Progress Party considers that asylum seekers without a known identity may be at risk and that it would be appropriate to be able to place them in extended, closed and monitored UDI areas. This is important in order to obtain information on the background of the persons concerned in a controlled manner. We see that unfortunate situations can easily arise if we do not take into account the limitations of unidentified asylum seekers and their movements. We also believe that, from a health point of view, it may be desirable in some situations to avoid the spread of epidemics and the like, if this appears to be a real threat in the future. We also believe that this can in the long term be something to have in mind in order to safeguard the individual’s health and rights. The Party considers that a common emergency number will facilitate the connection to the public safety answering points. One number is often easier to relate to than three numbers. In our opinion, it is also an advantage that the various departments get the necessary information as coordinated as possible, and then as quickly as possible. We believe that a common emergency centre with actors from different sectors, for example. Like what they have in the United States, the public and the agencies concerned will ensure that the flow of information is as effective as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1243	It is possible that some people think that SV is quite on tour in this debate, as we are trying to raise the perspective a little bit. But we actually believe that it is also appropriate to look at how we can prevent vulnerability, when we are going to discuss how we can ensure that our society becomes as vulnerable as possible. There have been representatives who have so far dealt with these issues, both in the comments and during the debate. For example, the Progress Party has been within asylum seekers as a threat to society’s vulnerability. The representative of Marit Nybakk was in this case with confused people who could be affected by an infectious effect in terms of suicide bombing. In this context, you could, for example: have been in the psychiatry of Norway, how the Government does not comply with the escalation plan in the proposed State budget. We could also have been here about how at least the party I represent believes that the government with the proposed government budget that has been presented provides the basis for an increase in crime in our own society, rather than reducing crime, because they add up to an increase in the differences. They also do not provide for a strengthening of e.g. care for the elderly. I find it strange that it seems that some parties in connection with this message believe that we should only focus on the organisation of offices, directorates and the exercise of authority, and not on how we can prevent vulnerability. And then it doesn't help with isolationism and navigable policies, which at least I feel that representatives from the Progress Party seem to stand for when they totally reject, for example. the need to look at how climate change can pose a threat to our society. On the other hand, SV believes that some of the main security challenges we face in the future are as follows: climate change and other environmental problems, created in particular by us in the West, which particularly affect the poorest people on the world's problems of global poverty and the increasing disparities between poor and rich countries and between poor and rich inhabitants within different countries, including our own lacking democratic rights and the non-fulfilment of human rights in large parts of the world terrorist threat, and with this a regrettable will of most of the world's authorities to go to the accord with fundamental human rights and rule of law in order to combat this threat, which we believe is the opposite of combating terrorist activities to undermine the UN, in particular from the US side-spreading of weapons of mass destruction, biological and toxic weapons, as well as small arms and non-will from some countries, including the United States, to accept several important agreements to counter such proliferation SV can't see that there's an enormous commitment in this room to do something about the fundamental problems the world is facing. If this were the case, Norway would have fulfilled the role of environmentalist, not only internationally, but also at home. We are not in the vicinity of taking responsibility for bringing down CO2 emissions on a Norwegian base, or for building up competitive public transport, just to mention something. We have not played a leading role in the Security Council to prevent the United States from undermining the UN, or to ensure that the Palestinians are granted fundamental rights, or to reveal the great game now taking place in the Caucasus and the Middle East, where it is more than removing a dictator or controlling Iraq's weapons arsenals are about securing access to invaluable non-renewable energy sources. How is that, for example? that we of all use more resources to wage a war – perhaps even two warriors – than to contribute to the development of peace and democratic development in the world? SV was also strongly critical of the new terrorist regulations adopted earlier this year. We did not think it was a feather in our hat that Norway was one of the most beautiful in the class of nations to adopt such provisions. On the contrary, we thought and believe that Norway should spend time, and that we should take over the criticism that has been raised from among others. Amnesty and Human Rights Watch, that the vast majority of countries have now actually adopted provisions that go across fundamental democratic rights. That we're getting credit from the United States, a country that holds over 600 people trapped in Cuba without a single right, we think is more fluent than fun. SV will work for another world, and we believe that this is not naive or something to laugh a little bit, a little permissive, but a duty we have as fellow people who depend on each other. The message about the vulnerability of society addresses some important issues, and fortunately we have received some comments we are satisfied with, which go up a little higher than just how we are going to organise the agencies, which of course is also important. But we cannot see that the major challenges are being affected, at least not sufficiently. We want to work to reverse this development. We want Norway to be a driver, both apparently and in fact, so that we leave this globe in a better environmental and democratic position than we left it. We believe that this is an obligation, and we believe that it is important to remind ourselves of it also in the debate on Norway's vulnerability as a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1281	St.meld. No 17 with the sub-title ‘Road to a Less Vulnerable Society’ underlines in a few words what this really is about. The whole message is a recognition that social security work is a process. At the same time, the message confirms that this process is continuous. Social security is not just built on a skill, but is just as much an attitude, yes the willingness to care about each other daily. If the crisis occurs or the disaster occurs, it is too late to prepare. Each of us is responsible for its own security. The person responsible for the day-to-day situation also has the best prospects for dealing with critical situations. For this very reason, day-to-day attitudes are crucial to the response to a crisis situation. I allow myself to comment on the handling of class bombs by the Defence Department as an example of an unwanted development in the organisation. Some form of headrolling in the cold water of this case is no solution to the challenges faced by the defense. Lack of respect for political decisions and the absence of willingness to ensure compliance with them within the organisation may be critical of communication in a crisis situation. The most worrying thing about this is that trust in the defence of the Norwegian people can be weakened over time. Requirements for defence attitudes must be consistent with what is best in society. Major disasters always happen inappropriately. Fortunately, we have had easy access to places where major accidents have occurred in Norway in recent years. This has contributed to a substantial reduction in the level of injury. Nevertheless, I would like to point out the need to establish as soon as possible a new digital connection for emergency situations and others that are naturally involved in major rescue work. A new standard has been developed for communication in emergency and emergency seats called the TETRA standard. Twelve countries in Europe have undertaken activities to develop TETRA networks for their emergency and security services. Five countries have concluded contracts for the development of TETRA nationwide networks. It is Belgium, Finland, Iceland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. In Finland, the TETRA network is practically complete. Denmark has decided to set up a nationwide TETRA network for emergency situations, but without any further construction. Sweden is in the process of approx. two years after Norway. In Norway, emergency budgets launched a cooperation project in 1998 to explore the possible establishment of a common emergency link based on the TETRA standard. A TETRA pilot installation is established in the Trondheim area with approx. 600 users. One is aware that several countries in Europe and Asia have implemented TETRA solutions in different areas without making them nationwide. In Norway, it is necessary to replace existing analogue radio connections with new digital solutions in a short time. The new TETRA network is currently the network that has the best usability among those known in the market. Selection of GSM/GSM-R/UMTS-based solutions will not meet user requirements. Furthermore, such solutions will not be based on international standards, and the systems will lack a number of functions depending on the emergency situation. A report from the Swedish consulting firm Stelacon on behalf of the Swedish Government Chancellor and Ministry of Food and Agriculture documents that these alternatives to TETRA will cost billions more. Current plans for the TETRA development in Norway provide better radio coverage on a national basis than the GSM system. The development, including user equipment, is estimated to cost NOK 3.5 billion. I would also like to point out the need for the defence to become a TETRA user in order to have a satisfactory communication with the emergency budgets in future common challenges. The principle of subsidiarity means that crises should be dealt with at the lowest possible level. It will usually mean the local police and the local fire and rescue services. The principle of responsibility implies that they must be trained and motivated to meet the challenges of everyday life. The small flow accident just two years ago showed how important it was to have proper and adequate equipment locally. Here we are facing a major challenge in the future in building sound units locally in many places in the country. Cooperation across municipal borders, but also increased appropriations are likely to be required to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1294	Always be prepared, it's called a high-key word cap. This is the current message. With globalisation and technological developments, the complex society we have built is very vulnerable — more than ever now. Therefore, it is particularly important to think about prevention safety in all parts of society. When we build new public buildings or we build infrastructure – roads, tunnels, lines, telecommunications, data transmissions, etc. – we have to think about getting ready. In these contexts, it's not useful with the way of thinking it doesn't happen to me. Here the precautionary principle must apply. This is the only way to avoid accidents and disasters, and if they happen, they can be managed quickly and correctly. The point one is to have a law that is comprehensive and takes into account all conceivable and unimaginable events, so that the legal basis is guaranteed. The second point is to have well-trained professionals who can supervise all the specific parts of our vulnerable society. These professionals are also not trained once and for all. If they are to be supervisors, they need to be further trained in order to keep up-to-date with everything that is being developed and that takes place in the areas for which they are responsible. They must have an organisation that is appropriate in the day-to-day supervisory work, but also on the day of the accident or disaster. There must be clear command lines, and everyone must know their place and be able to do their job quickly. This fact lies at the heart of the principle of proximity laid down in the message, that it is the people who are responsible for the day to day, who are also to deal with the major accidents and crises at the points of damage; in the police, in the ambulances, in the hospitals, in the fires, in the rescue helicopters, in the waterworks, in the electricity plants, etc. But this costs money – a lot of money. You have to plan where to evacuate people if this or something else happens, and think about whether you have enough simple or complicated equipment, medicines, enough blood and spare parts available, that can be reached quickly, and who transports what. All this and much more must be planned, and not just market-economy principles can be used. If prevention is well done in all fields, accidents and crises are likely to occur. But if they occur, they can be handled quickly and well. That's this reality we have to hold on to. Otherwise, it is difficult to say how much prevention and supervision pays before the accident and crises are a fact. When it's going to be cleaned up, no one's asking if we can afford it. But these questions are often asked in advance. Then our answer must be that we can't afford not to. Today, we state that the municipalities are required by law to be required to prepare themselves in the future. This will also cost money. Today’s government with a municipal minister will soon privatise all municipal tasks, have to think carefully about and at least always remember that private take over municipal tasks, the emergency response must be well taken care of. Workers need to be trained and re-trained over and over again to be good at doing their job quickly, under difficult conditions, under extreme stress situations. This is no one who can make money on, this costs money whether it's government, municipal or private. Struggling the local economy as this government is doing now is not related to what we are proposing in this emergency message. When providing emergency services to municipalities, municipalities need more money to monitor their vulnerability, train their employees to good crisis workers and make good plans that meet the objectives of a real crisis situation. As I said, preventing vulnerability costs money in several budgets, and I hope that the Government now remembers in these budget days. So move over to my home state, Vestfold. The Directorate for Fire and Electricity is located in Tønsberg. That's 130 people working there. Some of those working in Tønsberg were moved there as late as 1 January 2002 – so they have been there for one year. Not a lot of imagination is needed to understand that every move loses good professionals that you really can't afford to lose. They have just moved there, and it is not difficult to understand that they would like to have quiet and do their job and achieve their goals of protecting life and health, protecting the environment and material values of society and individuals. The Air Force School Centre in Stavern has been renamed the Justice Sector Training and Training Centre, and I refer to the comments of the majority in the Inner East. S. No 259 for 2001-2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1325	Yesterday's and Sunday's Newspaper claimed quite so strongly that there would be a confrontation with Krohn Devold in Stortinget – a storm race against Krohn Devold in Stortinget – and that Krohn Devold would be put to the wall in the treatment of the National Security Authority, NSM. There has probably been more of a desire from the newspaper than a reality here today. All the claims are refuted here in this hall today. I will be allowed to give the paper a little lesson in the form of a Norwegian saying: it is a cheap diet to have to eat in its own words. Today's threat picture is diffuse and complex. Society does not face a single threat, risk or vulnerability, but a variety of challenges that require a corresponding diversity of prevention and remedies. The development of security policy, the threat of terrorism and the threat of organised crime, the risk of technological failure, environmental disruption and climate change in each way pose societal challenges that need to be met. The common denominator is that society is put to the test and that exceptional efforts are needed. Natural disasters and terrorist actions against large installations and industrial installations will come suddenly and unexpectedly and will be very costly to insure against. The best way society can be confident of this kind of threat is good preparedness. A halt to the energy supply or paralysis of the country's ICT systems will put society's functions out of operation. Paralysis of oil installations and large industrial installations on land will have a significant economic but limited impact on the functions of society. Common to many of the threats is that prior warning is not given. We must state that it will be impossible to eliminate all the threat scenarios, such as natural disasters or terrorism. We must therefore organise ourselves in such a way that the adverse effects of civil society are minimised. This results in a sustained transition process, a sustained analysis of the vulnerability picture and a sustained communication between all actors. The main responsibility lies at the heart of the new directorate. The responsibility is clarified by the fact that a number of public authorities – including 435 municipalities – and thousands of enterprises are to be prepared and made aware of any event that is unlikely to happen but can happen and will have a major impact on society if it does. Not succeeding in this preparatory work could be fatal in dealing with the crisis. The vision for social security work is that there should be no major damage to life, health, environment or material values as a result of failure of critical functions regardless of the type of crisis. For the past 10 to 20 years, the economic welfare development of society has been somewhat consistent with ICT developments. Most sectors of society rely largely on such technologies, but these technologies have made society more vulnerable. For example, the power supply depends on well-functioning ICT. The consequences of disruptions in the operation of ICT systems and infrastructures can be complex and serious for the functioning of society. The effective functioning of crisis communication systems will also be crucial to the effectiveness of crisis management. Words such as ‘cooperation’, ‘coordination’, ‘delegation’ become flashy and fashionable if they are not filled with real content. Being on standby is not something that is done once a month or in half a year, but actually something that should be rehearsed and conscious daily to the dull because ‘the accident does not alert in advance’. Defective responses, failing organisation and coordination after the crisis has occurred may unnecessarily reinforce the scale and consequences of the crisis. Therefore, good preparedness planning and practical exercises will be important to eliminate the risk of malpractice in the post-crisis period. Responsibility for operational crisis management must be clear – in a crisis there is no room for confusion. Clear responsibilities from bottom to top are important. We know that the unexpected happens. But it is important to reduce the burden on society when the unexpected events happen. The most frequent crises occur in limited areas and require local action. The ability and ability to make right decisions at the beginning of a crisis may be alpha and turbulence for local communities to avoid excessive consequences or pressures. Then the local emergency management is incredibly important. Communication between emergency services, where appropriate the rescue services, the municipality, the civil defence, volunteers and in case of emergency The defence requires optimal technical conditions as well as well as well as well-integrated cooperation climate between people. Many communities along the Glomma have been affected by floods in recent years. Where local involvement was greatest and the best organisation took place, it also gave the best possible outcome in relation to the problems that existed in e.g.: the protection of life and security of properties. One factor that has not been mentioned very much is the risk of constant substitutions of persons in senior management positions, both locally and centrally, not only those employed in public positions but also those in elected positions. For this reason, regular updates of crisis plans and development of cooperation relations will also be of great importance. The new directorate will have to have such a function. Emergency exercises in the municipalities between the different actors will strengthen the capacity of each community to provide the best possible care for its citizens. For this reason, there will be legal requirements on municipal preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1357	St.meld. No 17 has had a special life with postponements, some kind of return, it's hard to understand, it's not very concrete, and you might say that everything and/or very little depends on how you read it to understand the concrete. But it is now here and ready for debate, and the final result was probably better than the beginning, although the Progress Party could see it differently on many points. I would like to take note of some aspects that particularly affect the role of the defence in this message, and first start with the role of Homeland Protection. The point of progress is of the opinion that the role of HV in emergency response has become more important. This significance is reinforced when you see this in the context of the reductions in Defence in relation to what the Progress Party will use of resources on Defence. The Progress Party believes that assigning HV, and in particular HV 016 troops, more weight than before, means that this needs to be made visible in concrete measures to improve their capacity to perform the intended task. The progress party believes that it is a misunderstanding if it is believed that the HV 016 summits are specialists in anti-terrorism and other special tasks. It is important to be aware that in order to define a military department as a special department, it is a prerequisite that this force is in daily service and that the service is of such a nature that it can be characterised as special in terms of skill requirements – I am thinking about the physical, mental, technical skills, etc. In Norway we only have two such departments, the Marine Jeger Command and the Army Hunter Command. The Progress Party believes that if it is a prerequisite for HV 016 to perform a mission of a special nature against terrorists, these departments must be strengthened educationally, and the form of service must then be radically converted to that objective. The Progress Party also wants to establish the Defence Image Building Centre at the Air Force Station Sørreisa. The point of progress is of the opinion that the location of the Sørreisa is an appropriate location also in view of the investments made in the previous installation. It is also important to continue the skills established here, so that we, i.e. Norway, get as much back for previous and future investments as possible. Investments that have a short life span may have had enough of them with the Defense in their head, and this helps to reduce the total defense we have, and we are so dependent on – especially in the future when you see how the world evolves with more and more brutal acts of terrorism. Otherwise, the Advance Party is in order for civil defence to be an important part of the total defence. The daily operational responsibility for civil defence lies with the police officers. The Progress Party considers it most appropriate to set up 27 civil defence circles to coincide with the number of police districts. This must be the most logical division for effective and rational cooperation between the various departments. It is a pity, therefore, that the majority do not see this. The view of the Progress Party is that in this way, resources, and not least local knowledge, will be used in the best way to reduce the size and extent of future crisis situations — and perhaps one will avoid crisis situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1370	I allow myself to draw attention to a part of the safety associated with the transport along the coast of North Norway, the risk of potential environmental damage that exists, and the need for increased monitoring of this ship traffic and to increase preparedness in relation to any accidents. I think everyone will be aware that the sea areas of the Barents Sea and the sea areas off the Norwegian coast are very vulnerable. This area is of vital importance for fishing activities, which are growing areas for fisheries and thus also of great importance for the important economic activity represented by the fishing industry. At the same time, these areas have a harsh climate, making maritime transport more vulnerable in these waters than in areas where climatic conditions are simpler. There is reason to expect that shipping along the coast of North Norway will increase in the years to come. One thing is that we imagine an increase in Norwegian petroleum activity in the northern areas, another thing is that the economic development of Russia itself creates an activity that also increases transport needs. However, let me point specifically to two relationships. We already see an increasing oil activity on the Russian side. This oil shall be transported from Russian waters to the international market. It is a transport that takes place on ships along the coast of Norway through these vulnerable areas, which are of great importance, among other things. for the fishing activity. The second is that we see a development in the transport of nuclear waste to Russia, and also this transport goes through these same areas that are very vulnerable. This is a transport where accidents could have dramatic consequences, because of the seriousness of the content of the transport operations and because of the effects of any accident, among others. for the ecological system in the sea. In addition, even smaller emissions could have significant effects by creating uncertainty about the credibility of the purity of Norwegian fishery products and Norwegian waters and thus could weaken the Norwegian fishing industry. I am therefore pleased that the unanimous committees have underlined the need to strengthen monitoring of the Norwegian coastline and to strengthen preparedness for major accidents and the content of transport. I think it's important, as the unanimous committees have asked, that the government investigate the establishment of an environmental monitoring unit for the northern regions to strengthen coastal surveillance. The government of Stoltenberg took the initiative to assess the need for a traffic centre in Finland. I have noticed that the Coastal Agency has been asked the question of such a traffic centre, and I am pleased that the committees in the suspension consider that it is environmentally important to ensure good monitoring of maritime traffic in the northern regions, and that the Government has to propose the organisation of it. The Committees agreed that such an organisation could, where appropriate, take place in connection with the Vardø Coast Radio Station. This allows interaction between one of Norway’s largest coastal radio stations and the traffic monitoring and any environmental monitoring that may take place on the basis of a traffic centre. I have also noticed that the investigation carried out for the Coastal Works does not involve economic or other negative effects at such a location in Vardø, in relation to other location that has been analysed. I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that one will follow up such an investigation with a view to establishing a traffic centre, and that one aims at such a location in Vardø.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1385	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1388	This has been a very peaceful and calm debate, marked by consensus between parties, ministries and committees. Since the matter has been submitted by the Ministry of Justice, it should not initially cause any comments from me. However, I have received a brief and factual question from the representative Bjørklund about whether the NSM as a directorate has already been established or whether it is prepared. I consider far on the way to this question to be answered through the debate we have had so far. A lot of people have been in it. But for the record, the 2003 budget proposal, presented by the Ministry of Defence in the autumn, says quite specifically that we propose to set up the NSM as a directorate from 1 January 2003. So it's not created. As far as history is concerned, it is quite right, as Marit Nybakk pointed out, that the NSM as a safety authority was established in the form of law in 1998, where the Progress Party had the Rules of Procedure, and where the whole Committee was unanimous. In the Chamber SV voted against, because they were not members of the Committee. Furthermore, it is known that the Workers' Party, when they were in the previous government, proposed NSM set up as a directorate under the Ministry of Defence. It was not adopted because the presentation of the Vulnerability Communication was awaited, but preparations were started for the then Labour Party Government, so that, in the event of its adoption, the directorate could be set up as of 1 January 2002. This also briefed the then Council of State Godal on. He said in the budget presented last autumn that ‘the government has started work in connection with the big business message’, etc. It was also written that the primary aim was to separate the NSM as an independent holding. It took note of the Committee, the same committee as today, and commented on the budgetary position last year that the Committee had noticed that, in order to enable the security post to perform the function of NSM, it would be organised as an independent holding from 1 January 2002. This government then presented a proposal in line with what the previous government had proposed – the NSM as a Directorate under the Ministry of Defence. And in order to be absolutely sure that the Committee and the Stortinget joined the preparatory work, the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee were invited to send letters to the Government stating that it is important that the work on social security should not be stopped and that the Government can continue to work in the following areas – and the NSM is mentioned as one of the areas. It was sent by the Committees on 21 June this year. For the sake of order only in relation to what has been in the press: the Progress Party is also in the majority opinion on NSM in today's position on the vulnerability message. It's the SV and the Center Party that are responsible for this, because they want a different cracking of the directorate than under justice. However, the Progress Party has its own proposal for the Directorate as an alternative to the Directorate of the Ministry of Justice, but that is another matter. For the sake of order, I would therefore like to explain the purely practical and actual conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1402	The Minister of Defense has been busy for months in his Council of State chair. Not only has she led the Defense at a time when Norway is at war, there have also been several conflicts about how the Norwegian defense solves its tasks and how the Council of State solves its task of political governance of the Defence. A few houses have hardly passed that SV is very critical of both parts. In the opinion of the SV, the defence has given us a number of examples of a lack of basic will and ability to be transparent and to facilitate public transparency in the last year. That's enough to point to the dissatisfaction in, among other things. the pressure for a lack of information about what Norway is actually doing in Afghanistan. Nor has the defence shown political tenacity and ability to respond to political governance signals. In this context, I refer to the case of arms purchase from Israel and the testing of class bombs on the Hierkin. In another case, in a case referred to several times earlier in this Chamber today, the defence has acted in a way that has created very considerable uncertainty regarding the use of the security clearance and the conditions that must be in place for the security clearance to be withdrawn. I could also have mentioned a number of issues in which the defence is a regular waste of public money, but we may have left that to the budget debate. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence to clean up and ensure that we have a democratic defence under political control and control. On Thursday, the Minister of Defence will have a new chance to explain how she intends to regain that confidence in the hearing in the Defence Committee. The problem with it is that the cluster bombs on the Hierkin are not a matter for the defense committee. In recent days, the Minister of Defence has been criticized for having implemented the establishment of the National Security Authority in advance of the Storting decision. SV takes note of this. The question is whether having an organisation and employing people is very similar to shooting the Storting decision. Our objection to NSM is now ready. We believe that the Security Authority must be anchored in the civil sector under the Ministry of Justice. I would like to ask the Council of State what she thinks about the other two proposals that SV is making today, which means that we get a principle that everyone who is deprived of security clearance should be guaranteed the right to access their case and not be subjected to the kind of treatment that we have seen in the previously mentioned case in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1413	The question itself was about transparency related to security clearance. But before the representative got that far, there was not a few topics the representative was in, and the key was ‘openness’. I feel the need to sign out some of the claims. In the case of arms purchases from Israel, the Ministry of Defence has put out on our websites every purchase that has been made after the round we had in our – that is, full transparency – while the SV line we proposed to apply, namely to ban the purchase from Israel, was rejected in the Stortinget. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we have had several press conferences where questions could be asked about everything, as well as answers to questions in Stortinget. However, the desire to be closed to the security of our members of the special forces in particular is something else. So to the very question and the matter that the representative was in, that is, the case where there was a person who was denied access to his case, where he lost security clearance. It has been duly debated in Stortinget in the past under the then State Council of Godal. The Council of State Godal lamented from this pulpit, and the procedures were set up after one matter. I believe that in view of the fact that what the two proposals from SV involve, is well-informed in the practice that the Ministry of Defence left behind after the case I referred to, and that Godal had here in Stortinget, and I also believe that the EOS Committee is working very satisfactorily in terms of being an opportunity for people to deal with matters where one should not be satisfied with the proceedings, whether it be the Defence Security Service or so far in the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1422	In a number of areas and the issues that Bjørklund raised, there is certainly a lot to say – and we have also said that. As for the class bombing case, we'll come back to it at a hearing on Thursday morning. So it's not a theme today. I took the floor just to underline what the Council of State said about the National Safety Authority, which was thus established by the Stortinget in the form of a law in February 1998 and is governed by the preventive security service law in Section 8 and 9 of Chapter 3 of this Act. The tasks are described in very detail and in addition, Section 9 states that «The King may provide detailed rules on the exercise of the tasks by the national safety authority». I believe that this also permits further work in the department concerned. With this case, the Stoltenberg government in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 propose to turn the National Safety Authority into a Directorate. The Committee chose to see it in the context of the vulnerability message. It is now being treated here today. I would also like to stress once again that the entire Defence Committee was in the Security Staff on 2 March this year and was given a thorough account of the ongoing work on the development of the Security Staff of the National Security Authority and the Directorate. I would also like to refer to the letter of 21 June from the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee to the Council of State. So I took the floor just to make it clear that at this point the Minister of Defence has the full support of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1438	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1442	After 11 September, it became even more important to take action to reduce the vulnerability of critical societal functions. The Vulnerability Committee refers to particularly vulnerable geographical areas that should be made more robust, inter alia. integrating security of supply requirements in cooperation with suppliers. There are great values in the huge sea areas of the north. Keywords here are fish, gas and any oil spills, and not least: the area is particularly vulnerable. To date, only a vessel with ice-breaking capability, KV «Svalbard», has been earmarked for control and monitoring in the north. In addition, the Marinen and the other Coast Guard vessels are added. However, when the new frigates are put into service, there are no workshops along the coast that have the necessary size to dock the boats. It means several sailing days from the Barents Sea to Håkonsvernung and thus severely weakened preparedness. The workshop city of Harstad has worked out a network for repair, equipment and new buildings that is very good. The workshop in Harstad stood among others. for the equipment and adaptation of K/V ‘Andenes’ before being sent to the Gulf. The docks in Harstad are so small that they can neither pick up the new frigates nor the new fast way ships. In cooperation with other companies, you have worked for several years to get an extension of the dokka. All the government parties were very positive in the election campaign for such an extension, which would ensure preparedness in the north. I am surprised that, at best, it can be said to have a lukewarm attitude to the emergency dock, and it is also not mentioned in the Vulnerability message. The Workers’ Party proposed in the revised national budget an appropriation for a pre-project to start work on emergency docks in the north, but did not receive a majority. So my question is: what will the government do to get this important dokka in place to improve preparedness in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1463	I am very pleased that the Swedish authorities in the handling of this message have been given the advantage that the Storting should ask the Government to consider setting down a wide-ranging selection to assess how we can best prevent damage and accidents and other societal problems in the light of climate change in the short and long term. This is positive, but at the same time we must not, pending such an investigation, fail to take action that we know is urgent in the light of climate change. One of the most vulnerable areas in this context is energy production. With the climate challenges we face – such as both increased rainfall and more storms on the Trøndelag and Møreksten – increasing the share of new renewable energy is a good strategy to make us less dependent on large and vulnerable plants. New renewable energy sources mean more decentralised energy production, which, for example, reduces the vulnerability issue related to the transmission system. But in addition, this is something that we have committed ourselves to in a global context through our offensive role in Johannesburg, and now last in New Delhi, where Norway was at the forefront of increasing the share of new renewable energy to 10 pst. by 2010. At the same time, it turns out, according to today's business yesterday, that the government is in parallel in Brussels and negotiates with the EU that Norway should not increase the share of renewable energy, thereby avoiding a requirement that the EU has made in the form of a new directive. The rationale of the Steensnæs State Council is that exemptions are necessary for the construction of gas power plants. This is a very delicate matter, and in the light of the Government's climate policy commitment, very unfortunate. It could be interesting to hear how Norway will defend our need to increase the share of fossil energy at the next climate conference, while at the same time we want everyone else to reduce their share. This is not a good contribution to the respect for Norway’s role in international negotiations, nor is it a good contribution to the prevention of damage, accidents and other societal problems caused by man-made climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1480	There has been a positive debate on the path to a less vulnerable society and on social security. The articles have been so varied that they have combined many of the challenges that it is important to continue working on in the process. The Council of State expression ‘creative unrest’ is something that we can take further into account in the thinking and work of the whole area of social security. Therefore, I did not realize that the representative Thorkildsen was on a tour, but rather that she was raising several concerns that could be included in the global thinking on vulnerability and social security. Since I did not recommend the Committee's recommendation in my first post, I do so now. There are two joint committees which support the proposals for decisions to maintain the schools of civil protection in Heggedal and Jären, and to ask the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the overall school situation for civil protection. In addition, the budget currently under consideration in the United Kingdom reports that the government is reporting a review of the school situation. It is important to review this in the light of the need for education in today’s social situation and social security work. The Committees refer to the tasks assigned to the Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway and the role of Reitan as the centre of preparedness and monitoring, and believe that a crisis management command should be established for the northern regions of Reitan and propose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1489	So far there has been little debate about localisation, and I will contribute to that. I regret the fact that a majority believes that there should be a centre of expertise for total defence. In particular, preventive social security will require more training and practice activities. Then I would like to ask the Council of State to note the following: The size decided to leave three bogs in the ringing area. It equals about 500 jobs, 100 of them only in my municipality of Jevnaker. This happens without torches and without sinister slogans, but there is nevertheless a pretty strong commitment that the ring ix region should be compensated for the loss of all these workplaces. With the facilities at Eggemoen and Hvalsmoen, which are fortunately mentioned in the setting, solutions can be created for exercises within the overall defence concept that are both efficient, cost-effective and not least strategically good. And that will lead to a very reasonable use of the military camps. And just to mention it as a curious thing: it's 140 000 m2 of building mass, a 16,000 covered area and a floor area equal to about 1 400 house-banking houses. So I believe that the Ringrike/Eggemoen option must be a good alternative to the further work that the Government is now required to do in relation to social security and come back to Stortinget in relation to a total defence concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1500	On April 9th this year, Avisa Nordland wrote that the undersigned refuses to give up Reitan, and that is true. The work for a good future has continued on the part of the Workers' Party after Reitan lost the fight over the national main command. Some claim that the decision related to the treatment of Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 to establish a crisis management command on Retan was taken out of the air. It was something that the Workers' Party was forced through like a patch on the wound after the main command was added to Stavanger. It is therefore particularly gratifying that two unanimous committees are now in favour of Reitan having a centre for preparedness and monitoring and that Reitan will be a crisis management command for the northern regions in the future. This Roman Numeral proposal is being adopted today. The resources in the northern regions will secure our future. Meeting business interests, environmental interests and security policy interests. We know that there are and will be frontier conflicts between industries based on renewable and non-renewable marine resources. Between industry and environmental considerations, national challenges will be linked to both military and civil challenges. I see it as very important to coordinate civil and military resources. The defense has 90 pst. of the active monitoring resources in Norway. It is therefore natural for the defence to play a central role in a new centre for preparedness, rescue and surveillance. The Nord-Norway District Command shall have the necessary information and communication system and a day-to-day sea operation centre. With the uncertainty we get along the Norwegian coast, with increasing Russian transport of dangerous goods, it is necessary to add a centre for preparedness and monitoring to Retan, as the Committee has stressed. Reitan knows Russia and trusts Russia's environments. I'm sure the Reitan crew will go to the assigned tasks with knowledge and enthusiasm. This is a happy day, not least for North Norway. It is also necessary to investigate whether to establish a traffic centre in Vardø. The Committee has done a good job, and the predictions that the Workers' Party created an airlock about the future of Reitan have been put to shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1511	The majority of the Committees are in favour of setting up a new Directorate for Preparedness and Social Security. It needs to be developed into a powerful preparedness organisation. The overall responsibility for fire, together with the responsibility for major accidents, should be transferred to the new Directorate. Consideration should also be given to the section of the Directorate for Fire and Electricity, DBE. This should not delay efforts to establish the new Directorate. After a long debate today, it is my concern from the back of the room, that is, as a Vestfold representative, to follow up on the issue of locating a new, large security directorate. One of the proposals includes, inter alia: the activities of the Directorate for Fire and Electricity in Tønsberg, the Security and Control Department of the State Pollution Agency in Horten and the Directorate for Civil Protection in Oslo are part of such a new Security Directorate. I would like to stress that the establishment of a new Security Directorate should be located in Westfold. It will be able to build on, exploit and develop the established professional competence already existing in this region. The establishment of a new Security Directorate in Westfold is, in fact, a natural extension and further development of already established supervisory seats and directorates. It has taken years to build up your professional skills. Large investments have been made on the construction and construction side. DBE in Tønsberg is built after leaving Oslo. You can't stop this development right now. Both DBE and SFT also cooperate with a number of other enterprises in Westfold, and this overall professional environment is a strength in the areas of interaction, labour market and other functions in the region. The localisation of a new Security Directorate outside the region will undoubtedly result in the loss of labour with special competence in the security and security field, and thus in a long-term weakened security management. Therefore, maintaining the professional environment is closely linked to the localisation issue. It is of great importance that the future organisation and location of a Security Directorate be taken into account in the light of what is most effective in terms of fire, explosion and electrical safety. Preventive safety work and supervision must be seen in a close context with preparedness measures. The region has good professional skills and is conveniently located in relation to both domestic and foreign communications. In addition, there is proximity to the large industry, which are exposed security objects – I would like to mention the Battle tangent refinery. Westfold appears to be a very good alternative to the location of a new Security Directorate. This is justified by the desire to maintain the highest quality of safety management in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1532	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1541	In the course of the debate, ten proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party, no. 2-6, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7-10, from Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that the proposer had corrected proposal No. 9, from SV, by stating in the last line ‘safety clearance’ and not ‘safety declaration’. Before the Storting goes to voting on the proposals, the President will state that proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 8, by the Socialist Left Party, after further examination will be converted into a transmission proposal, since the proposals in their present wording conflict with the third paragraph of Section 12 of the Basic Law, which assumes that this type of organisational issue is the King's, i.e. Government, area. Following a conference with the proposers, it has been agreed that the proposals will be converted into transmission proposals, and the wording will then be corrected accordingly. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish the National Security Directorate under the Office of the Prime Minister.’.» Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, in amended form reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish the National Security Authority as a Directorate under the Ministry of Justice.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to work internationally for a rapid ban on nuclear weapons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1587	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds in correct form: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish in the context of the establishment of the NSM the principle of ensuring the transparency of persons deprived of the security clearance.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to appoint an independent name as the appeal body in cases where the Government finds that there are particular reasons to deviate from the principle of the right to transparency in matters relating to the withdrawal of security clearance.’ The Central Party has announced their support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1611	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a thorough investigation into the appropriateness of the command relations between the police and the defence in relation to the various serious situations facing society.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for asylum seekers/refugees without a known identity to be placed in extended closed and supervised UDI areas.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up the Centre for the Image Building of the Defence Agency at the South Travel Station of the Air Force.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up 27 civil defence circles, so that this coincides with the number of police districts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1643	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out a more thorough investigation into a third protection category.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1768	Referral case No 55 is proposed to the Social Committee. Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1773	I would like to make a proposal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on that report. 55 is dealt with under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28, i.e. it is not sent to the committee, but is provided for the transparency of the Storting for at least two days and is then dealt with. My proposal is because this is about something that has to do with time, namely to allow people to be tested if alcoholic beverages contain methanol. There is also one thing that I assume most groups can take a quick position on. The views for and against are relatively obvious, so at least we want to try to get a quick treatment by not sending it to the committee, but dealing with it under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1780	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The President will quote point (c) of the third paragraph of Paragraph 28 of the Rules of Procedure: ‘When new cases, including proposals, recommendations and applications, have been referred, decide whether the matter should be reviewed by the members of the matter for at least one day and then listed on the map for consideration.’; There are then two proposals for dealing with referral case No. 55. It is the President's proposal that referendum No. 55 is sent to the Social Committee, and Carl I. Hagen's proposal to comply with Rule 28(c) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Molvik has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1790	I do not know whether it is relevant for the consideration of such a proposal, but the Stortinge should know that the Social Committee has already received the case and that the rapporteur is appointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1795	It is not relevant for the handling of the case. That's the thing that sovereignly decides what kind of treatment you want. The fact that a certain amount of working time may have been lost in the social committee is an accident that you have to live with in the event. Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-05.ana.ud1789e1808	This is a matter of concern to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, and it is safe to continue to work. Further references were made:
