ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e51	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. From 6 May to 8 May in order to take part in the missions of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to Armenia and Georgia, an application has been made for the leave of the representative of Thore A. Nistad. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e80	Morten Ørsal Johansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e88	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e91	On behalf of Morten Lund and myself, I would like to make a proposal to legislate for gender-neutral pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e96	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e110	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2560]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e127	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e134	I want to mention five points. The first point is that there is a great deal of consensus about development policy in the Stortinget. It's just the Progress Party that sits on the side-line – not to say completely on the side-line. It could have been different if the Right had stood firm on what was being promoted in the election campaign, and what they were wearing in the last big time period. But fortunately that didn't happen. I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for maintaining the policy that the party has always followed and on which there has been a great deal of agreement in the Stortinget. That's the first point. Point two: I want to say that we have an enthusiastic Minister for Development. That's good, too. Three: Different governments have gained the experience that promoting peace, democracy and social justice are essential elements of a development strategy, not just necessary elements, but that this is actually the most important, because without peace it is not possible to develop. Of course. But peace is not just the absence of war. In many areas of development, landmines and the spread of small arms are a major obstacle to development. This is why, of course, the work we are doing on getting to a Convention on Small Arms and Clearing Land Mines and, not least, preventing the deployment of new landmines, which is particularly important for our development policy. We have all also become increasingly aware of how corruption and mismanagement are a major barrier to development. The previous government announced a review of the main cooperation countries with a view to how we can contribute to better governance. The Minister for Development defined a number of criteria in his statement that I agree with for my part. I would like to add that I believe that responsible resource management and gender equality are also very important criteria in the work to be done. I also want to stress that we in the Workers' Party of course fully agree with what the Government is now doing in relation to Zimbabwe. It was important and right that we participate with observers during the elections there when the EU had to withdraw. But now we have reached a new stage, and I fully agree with the line followed by the Government in relation to Zimbabwe. The fourth point is that we have also had an increasing emphasis on the importance of trade for the poorest countries. I believe it is obvious that we must now combine development projects, to help build up the educational system, health care, etc., with a greater opportunity for the poor countries to enter the world market with their goods. And of course, it is also very important to get private investment to develop in these countries. Now, from 1 July, all goods from the so-called MUL countries, except weapons, will be free of customs duties and quotas. I would like to stress how important it is that we now take care of everything that needs to be taken care of, that there are no new technical barriers to trade that can replace the customs regulations and quotas we have currently had. It is not entirely unlikely that anyone will still have an interest in trying to shut down goods from these countries out of our own market. It's very important that the government takes care that it doesn't. I would also like to say that we must now follow the initiative taken by Norway, and what we are doing on a unilateral basis, with new initiatives, and that this duty-free and quota-free regime must gradually be extended to middle-income countries. The fifth point is just to stress that we still need to have the UN and support the various UN organisations as a key pillar of our development policy. In this respect, of course, the conference in Johannesburg will become unusually important later this year. It has been a long tradition in Norwegian foreign and development policy to focus on the work that the United Nations is doing and working with the various UN organisations. I am glad that it was underlined by the Minister for Development. That line should continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e163	Iland mentioned the Right's policy in the previous period and the discussion on development policy in the election campaign. It is true that in the past, the right has given less attention to the fulfilment of a special percentage in terms of the level of assistance, and placed greater emphasis on other elements of development policy, such as: trade. I just want to stress that, through government cooperation, the Right has had some of the demands we have also made on aid policy, namely increased emphasis on business development – something that we felt we were doing a little bit in relation to the previous government. We have had an impact on a review of the entire aid management. As Ichland also mentioned, the government will work to include countries other than the MUL countries when increasing access to both the Norwegian and international markets is discussed, among others. in the WTO. What I could imagine asking Jagland about is how he views the importance of placing increased emphasis on the development of industry in Norwegian aid, and on the renewed focus that this government is now putting on, among other things. cooperation with the NHO and a review of areas we can strengthen in our cooperation with the main cooperation countries and with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e172	I fully support what Julie Christiansen said. I also believe that it is very important to achieve economic development, and in this respect to increase access to markets, because without increased access to markets, it is difficult to achieve food development. I also think it is positive that cooperation with the NHO has been started on this. What I want to add, if you want to look back at the previous period and the debate in the election campaign, is that this should not be a substitute for the traditional aid work we have had. If we look at the situation in many of the poorest countries, it is clear that it is also not easy to achieve either trade or business development if you do not have education, if you do not have basic health care and the infrastructure that countries need to have in order to achieve at all in these areas. That's why it's positive that there's full agreement on this. When I had a little visit on this in my post, it was not in itself to take up a debate from the election campaign, it was more to stress the importance of the Christian People's Party standing here. It was not without reason that there was a discussion on Sem about this. It was related to the fact that there was not only a discussion about percentages, but that the Right had proposed significant cuts both to the United Nations and to Norway’s bilateral aid projects, including the United Nations. in Africa. It was very nice that it fell away, and that there is now a broad consensus on these things in Stortinget – except in the case of the Advance Party, which has positioned itself on the sideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e177	Norway marks 50 years of Norwegian aid and aid. It is an era in which there have clearly been some success stories, but one can also question whether the overall assistance and the device on it has given a positive development. I would also like to say that there have been 50 years of a lot of protectionism, and Norway has certainly not been a leading country in opening up free trade. As Ichland was involved in his contribution, trade is an important tool – perhaps more important than at least 50 years ago. I would like to challenge Jagland a little bit if he now sees that trade is probably one of the most important instruments, not to say the most important, and whether he will help Norway become a leading country in this area and really give the developing countries not only free trade, but also what they want, namely fair trade. The elements I myself had in mind in this area of technical barriers to trade have also proved to be a brake on positive developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e184	I'll say I agree with what Höglund now said. I have also described this in detail in the book that I just published, where I pointed out that millions of people in large parts of Asia have been lifted from poverty by means of general trade. I'm going to say that when the Chinese joined international trade to a greater extent, hundreds of millions of people were actually lifted from the very worst of poverty, and it has happened simply through ordinary trade. In other parts of Asia, the same thing has happened. But once I have said that, I will insist that it is necessary to pursue the aid policy we have had, in order to enable more people to participate in international trade. For example, when many of the poor countries are now negative to the WTO, it is because they simply do not have the opportunity to comply. Just something like sticking to an administration to be in the WTO is a pretty big burden. It goes without saying that if you are to participate in international trade based on clear rules, you have to be able to compete on equal terms and you have to be able to implement the measures provided for in WTO legislation. So it's still important to help. But I fully agree that trade is important, and that here we should aim to be a country of the past. This is what we have been doing for the MUL countries, and we should move on to the middle-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e189	Developmentally, the refugees are in a very special situation. They are often out of normal administrative conditions; they are outside of their own country. The working party has a Document No. Eight proposals for a people's fund for Palestinian refugees. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Jagland, whether this can be seen as a violation of the Palestinian refugees' right to return home. I will immediately say that when that proposal comes up, it will be supported by SV. I would like to ask Jagland to assess this in relation to the law on return and the law on not return that exists in the Israeli constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e196	The question of the future of Palestinian refugees is probably the most difficult in the negotiations between Palestinians and Israelis, which will certainly start again. I see no other way to solve that question than that the international community takes a clear responsibility for it. It is not possible for the two parties to resolve the question. The fund that we have called for, and which we hope can be followed up by other countries, is not intended to undermine international law and law, but it is intended as a measure to support the parties' ability to reach agreement. Because no matter what they come up with, no matter how the principle of the right to return should be put into practice, it's probably about the largest international action ever to solve this question. You don't get away with the cost, no matter how this is solved. That is why we have called for Norway to go in this direction, so that there is something to make available to the parties on the day they would come to the negotiating table again, so that they can probably solve the most difficult question in future negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e201	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e205	The Minister of Development’s presentation in Stortinget on 30 April provided a good overview of the status, challenges, further opportunities and improvements for Norwegian development work. There is good reason to rejoice with the Council of State over 50 years of commitment in this area. At the same time, it is necessary to mark an anniversary year with an extra thorough review of the objectives we have set, our working methods and the results achieved. As has already been mentioned here today, the Right Party, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, stands on the aim of the Swedish Cooperative Government to gradually increase Norwegian development assistance up to 1 pst. of gross national income by 2005. From the 10 million. This has increased to very significant amounts on both a national and an international scale at the start-up in 1952. At the same time, the importance of good evaluation of objectives, working methods and performance increases. When such a large amount of funding is provided for development work, we have a similar great responsibility both to Norwegian taxpayers and not least to the intended beneficiaries in order to explain the efficient and targeted use and management of the funds. On the right, Norway wants to be a driving force in the further development of the evaluation tool in the aid sector. It requires a continuous assessment of how the objectives can be concreteised, the development of indicators of achievement and international work for a common understanding of objective criteria – and their design. The UN Millennium Goal is a good contribution and becomes an important reference framework. Norway should play an active role in the further work of the UNDP on indicator development. At the same time, it is important to design governance instruments also for short-term effects in development policy. An essential prerequisite for effective and targeted development work is the continuous adaptation of the organisation and management to the task. This includes, inter alia: clear guidelines and criteria for activities and that work is then undertaken in a rational manner. The right is therefore satisfied with the Government's initiative for a broad evaluation of the entire aid management at home and outside and sees the value of such modernisation work also being carried out within the framework of the Government's project for modernisation, decentralisation, efficiency and simplification of the public sector. It's about getting the most out of every penny for the poor of the world, because it's about poverty. In March, the government presented its action plan to combat poverty in the south of 2015. The plan is comprehensive and it is liberatingly concrete. There is a broad political consensus on prioritising education, health and social services, with particular emphasis on combating HIV and AIDS. The plan also shows that Norway has gained useful experience through 50 years of assistance. If we are to achieve the objectives of poverty reduction, we need to work at the same time with human rights, with particular emphasis on women's situation, but also on governance, democratisation, legal security and the fight against corruption. War is rapidly breaking down the results of long-term efforts to combat poverty. Peace and peace work are therefore fundamental prerequisites for success, and I registered with interest that the representative Jagland also stated in his post that it was a key point. Aid measures may seek to be peace-making in themselves by promoting viable political and administrative structures, democracy and respect for human rights. Norway has a greater role in international society than can normally be expected from a small country with 4.5 million inhabitants. This is partly due to our great commitment to development, but also to the significant tasks undertaken by the country as: Head of the donor country group of the Palestinian Territory Leader of Afghan Support Group member of the Sanctions Committee for Iraqi Intermediaries in the conflict on the Horn of Africa, Sri Lanka and in the Middle East member of the Security Council The question is whether one could achieve more by looking at the relationship between countries where Norway has a political role, and countries where we give priority to development assistance. It may be worth considering whether, in some cases, a non-assistance would be more achieved by spending the money where Norway can also play a positive political role in peace and reconciliation. In its presentation, the Council of States is also reviewing the co-operation countries, as indicated in the supplementaryproposal. As stated in this year's budget, we are committed to concentrating efforts. However, replacements on the list will take place, including: as a result of changed assumptions, such as: in Zimbabwe, for which there is a broad consensus. I have received comments on the review of the Council of State, but will nevertheless add a few comments to the assessment of Rwanda. We were four members of the Foreign Affairs Committee who visited Rwanda in January for eight days under UNDP. It will lead too far to account now for the strong impressions of the genocide in 1994, when well 800,000 people were killed primitively in 100 days, while the world otherwise considered the bloodbath from the sideline. It was the refugee camps, the camp for the reintegration of child soldiers and visits to overcrowded prisons. There was also a meeting with strong, beautiful individuals — often women — who worked both among the rural population and in the government offices to gradually rebuild trust, large-scale reconciliation processes, and for a fragile, slow build-up of a state built on democracy and on one — in that country, formerly unknown legal protection. An overemphasis on such strong impressions from a single country may quickly become wrong. However, Rwanda is an example of a need to be careful about how fast a major achievement is required. The country has a Poverty Reduction Strategy Plan that has been developed with broad participation from the population and that UNDP gives high recognition. In cooperation with the United Nations, the country will start legal proceedings against the defendants from 1994 at its special national courts – the so-called gacaca – with a significant risk of new ethnic conflicts. The Council of State may, where appropriate, defer the final assessment of Rwanda to a review of the evolution of the human rights situation when the judicial process is under way. A missing person in such contexts is a more thorough analysis of what we will call the core elements in the start-up of a new democracy and a legal society. Countries will have very different starting points and assumptions for which they can be required and at what rate further development can be expected. Based on local culture, tradition and history, wrapping will have to be different. We can become more clear on what we think is a minimum common multiple, without expecting that believing copies of our Western democracies is the good solution for all. It must be essential that there is a directed development in the right direction. Debt relief, trade and industrial development are also important elements of development. The follow-up to the Norwegian Enterprise Development Strategy in South, launched by the Bondevik Government in 1999. It is important milestones that the OECD countries from the New Year have made assistance unbound and that from 1 July Norway will introduce duty-free and quota-free imports from LDCs – MUL countries. The right is satisfied with the Government’s attitude to the challenges and opportunities that this entails for all parties. In addition to domestic consequences, the further follow-up will require long-term and conscious efforts in the WTO negotiations. But I also agree with the representative, Mr Jagland, that at the same time one must have a sharp look and ensure that one does not find new technical barriers. We look forward to providing solutions for those who need the most: the world's poor is not 'the others' – they're part of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e262	I was one of the lucky ones, along with Vallersnes and others, who got to Rwanda, and it's good to see that Right now, in government, is simply more helpful. It's absolutely happy to see. The assistance must now be more or less unbundled. At the same time, it is particularly important to develop good control mechanisms for the bidding rounds of Norwegian funded projects, not only for them to go to Norwegian actors but also for them to be implemented correctly and legally. This is of particular importance for business projects, because they give rise to strong economic interests. We see, as Mr Jagland also pointed out, that in the negotiations on trade many countries are short. In SADC countries, there is no doubt that in many cases South Africa is much stronger than, for example, South Africa. Mozambique, which cannot have an outstanding administration on these areas. So what I want to ask is, will the Right join in giving more of the management of trade to the United Nations? After all, the United Nations has an emerging apparatus in UNCTAD, but is the Right willing to join and strengthen the United Nations position when it comes to trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e273	The right approach to development, assistance, has for several years been very marked by the interest in how one develops trade in the countries concerned. And it makes the mechanisms around the way this can be promoted have been a central theme of the aid debate in my party, although there is no contradiction between the interest and the fact that one at the same time discusses the size of the appropriations given. For us, it will be essential to stimulate trade in developing countries in close cooperation with other countries, so that the overall result is positive. It follows without a doubt that it is obvious that the aspects of the work promoted by the major international organisations, among other things. The UN is among the useful tools for further developing the commitment to industrial development in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e280	The right is concerned with the role of trade in development. We heard that in the election campaign, and we hear that now too – and it is repeated in a sense that one might be more concerned with trade as an instrument than with assistance. But it's a fact that on this planet the rich are getting richer, and the poor are getting poorer – this as a consequence, among other things. of the international trading system as we know it. Then I have noted with interest that in an interview with the Nations, the Minister for Development has stressed the need for some protection for the poorest countries. She may not have gone as far as I would have liked, but at least it was what was in mind, that the poorest countries need a certain degree of protection, not least – as I interpreted it – while the economy is in a build-up phase. And then it's usually interesting to know what the government partner Right, who's so concerned about the role of trade, thinks about this. So my question is quite simple: does the Right believe that the poorest countries need special protection through WTO legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e289	While it may be possible for a person to agree on this, how to design the rules as a measure will be a discussion. For my part, I then assume that these are elements that we will have ample opportunity to discuss both further and get a preliminary investigation on when the Government comes up with its strategy for further development of nutrition. We welcome that, and we are going to work on the clear position that it is absolutely a topical issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e294	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e297	Despite the fact that the Progress Party is quite alone in Norwegian policy on aid and development aid, it is gratifying to note that more and more people are approaching us in the view of what is most important for a positive development in developing countries. Of course, I am thinking of trade and open markets as the best tool for combating poverty on a broad scale with long-lasting effects. More and more, both in Norway and internationally, who were previously more unilaterally concerned with instruments such as aid and debt relief, now realise that without improved trade conditions, developing countries will not have the opportunity to reduce the gap between their and our prosperity. This is a very important recognition, for it will hopefully be with and turn attention to what is important to achieve. One of the most recent grants to the list of actors who believe in trading as an instrument is the UK help organisation Oxfam. They have explained this very carefully in the report «Rigged Rules and Double Standards». It is interesting when one of Europe’s leading aid organisations concludes that the main instrument for poverty reduction is greater inclusion of developing countries in world trade. The main problem with world trade today is that it is far too preventing developing countries from exploiting their potential as global trading partners. When developing countries export to rich countries, they meet customs barriers that cost them 100 billion dollars a year, which is twice as much as they receive in total assistance. The rich world's agricultural policy is being promoted by Oxfam, as by others before them, as a major problem. The EU, the United States, Japan, Norway and others spend $1 billion a day in agricultural subsidies — subsidies such as: is used to price agricultural products below cost and thus to disqualify poor farmers. Instead of reducing subsidies, they have become increasingly extensive, to the increasing detriment of developing countries. One can really wonder if there is any real will to change the situation of the developing world. We are asking the Minister of Development and the Government to start work on liberalising and subsidising Norwegian agricultural policy, while at the same time putting pressure on the EU, the United States, Japan and others who are really preventing fair trade. In a few sentences in the Council of State presentation, it makes a point of going through Norwegian agricultural policy and other policies to see its impact on developing countries. The party of progress means that we already know a lot about the effects; the time has come to act. Where the world's top leaders gather, we see organizations like Attac and others coming together in more or less peaceful demonstrations against capitalism, trade and the policies of rich countries. They are supposed to fight for the poor, but they are fighting what would really help against poverty. They have become defenders of the protectionist and anti-territorial policies of the rich countries. They should have marched for free trade and for transparency. The Minister for Development is right to say that not everything is about one instrument in the fight to promote positive development. The countries that have reached the highest level in combating poverty are the same countries that work purposefully to achieve a full democracy and justice system, where the elite regime is gradually replaced by a broader regime of peoples. Powerholders who enforce their own laws and enforce human rights are of course not in all parts of the world, but it has proved to be a useful tool to give people both hope and opportunity. The debt problem of too many countries is helping to make these countries housekeepers in the global arena. Countries become gradually independent only in their name; in reality, they are governed by those who control access to credit. This creates frustration and disgust. However, when we are in favour of debt relief measures, it is not to reward regimes that have had an uncritical use of money. We think it's important to have a index finger and good advice. But it is also important to give countries that may break with years of dictatorship and misrule, a new opportunity, an opportunity to clean up and not least an opportunity to allow democracy to survive. And that's what we think can be difficult when the population experiences that whatever you do, it's the other thing, beyond the borders of the country, that takes all the efficiency gains and all the increased value creation. Norway is like one of the world’s leading oil exporters in a special position. We have the joy of having large resources of a commodity where the price is largely influenced by a very up-front cartel. Our profits are high — sky high — but of course this has the side effect that oil importing countries pay a high price, and for poor countries, this can help to prevent the start-up of desired industrialisation and growth. We note that we have an oil policy where we even go as far as operating production restrictions at OPEC's invitation to keep the oil price at a high level. This is a policy that may be in Norway's short-term interest, but it is not at all a policy that promotes growth in a global context. And growth is, as you know, the best way to lift the poor part of the population out of their poverty. With this in mind, it would not be unreasonable for Norway to contribute in other ways to promoting growth for developing countries. It would not have been unreasonable for a certain proportion of our oil revenues to be used to compensate for the negative effects of high oil prices. But these must of course be means which do not prevent the necessary priorities for our own state budget. In other words, the funds must not be included in that rule of action; they must be kept separate from our domestic state budget. At the same time, of course, the funds must be used in a way that really contributes to development, not as much of the previous assistance, which in many ways never provided a basis for the beneficiary countries to work out of poverty and, among other things, to stay out of it. Heads of State like Mugabe by power. Health bets are probably the very best way we can now help developing countries. HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis control are some of the priority areas. Now we note that this is also happening from the Norwegian side, otherwise with full support from the Progress Party. But we want to move the appropriations to this area to a separate foreign budget, which will then mean that aid does not replace health, care for the elderly, school and crime prevention, but as a supplement. The second area, in addition to health, where we believe assistance has something to do with it, is education. Not least, education could provide opportunities for girls too, which, unfortunately, too often is not possible. Education is a good means of much, not least cultural and religious oppression. In addition, as mentioned above, we see the need for Norwegian aid for indebtedness. The world is getting better, more people today can eat saturation than ever before, more kids are growing up, more learn to read, more average life expectancy is increasing. Most factors point in the right direction, but, as the Council of State itself said, a lot is still missing. After 50 years of Norwegian assistance, there is a need for reflection and hopefully innovation – what works, what does not work, and what works best and faster. According to the view of the Progress Party, this is after all very well documented. We see that the Minister for Development, in his presentation, makes some concessions and cautious, positive references, but we are impatient, and we are eagerly awaiting a renewed policy by Norway and the rich countries that takes the real interests of the developing countries seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e341	Høglund and the Progress Party have a fantastic form of logic: in some countries that receive development aid, it is dictatorship, ergo: If a drop in development aid, it becomes democracy. In other words, where there is no development aid, there is democracy, according to Høglund – an interesting observation, because of course it is not. But what's more interesting about Høglund is that he now wants to use oil surplus for development aid. The Progress Party could then be in a position to support those parts of the development budget that are primarily concerned with health and education, to a far greater extent than they have done before, without creating an own development budget alongside – if there is one thing that has come to mind. The offer is from all of us to join and support the development budget as it stands. But maybe then it tastes bad to call it development aid, or development cooperation, for the Progress Party. The money is there, the budget is there – it's just to get involved and revise the policy a little. Then I also believe that Höglund should write or call Oxfam and ask if they agree with him that trade is the only contribution to development. That's the opposite of Oxfam's saying. I would recommend using both sides – turn the sheet when reading what Oxfam says about the need for greater and more trade, and look at the need for development aid, which also Oxfam is a strong supporter of, but not Høglund. Read both sides of the sheet. That's good advice. The last point I want to mention here is a concrete point, which Høglund is not especially now, but which the Progress Party is often in, the Middle East, which is an acute matter. The party of progress has, in practice, removed almost all of the permissions to the Middle East from a given argument on democracy, etc. in the Palestinian territories. Now, if an agreement is put in place there, is the greeting from the Progress Party good luck with trade, and no help to the Palestinian regions when it comes to economic transfer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e353	To take Oxfam first: I have read relatively much in their report, and I did not say that trade was the only measure that Oxfam described, but that it is at the top of the list as one of the most important. What I said was ‘the inclusion of the developing countries’, and what they are talking about is, among other things, ‘the inclusion of the developing countries’. and fair trade. They underline the significance of this. With regard to dictatorship and aid, there has now also been a recognition in the rest of the Norwegian political environment that providing Norwegian aid to regimes that consistently violate human rights and do not see themselves serving to embark on a democratic path is not in anyone's interest. But, of course, it is not the case that those countries that do not receive Norwegian assistance are thus more easily embarking on a democratic path. Blankenborg assumed that the Progress Party’s alternative state budget did not contain one krona of aid and development aid. That's not right either. All the indebtedness measures proposed by the Government, we were left untouched. When it came to health funding, we were left untouched – we supported it under what was. And as well as all the efforts at education, we were left untouched. So these three areas were also prioritised by us at the state budget treatment last autumn. But in some other areas, we chose to cut relatively drastically. Then to the Middle East. Now we see what's going to be the result, and what construction process is going to start. But in such a situation, of course, trade is not an instrument that alone can solve the challenges we face. The Progress Party has also been willing, at the latest in the context of the crisis in Afghanistan, to provide significant grants to assist when a humanitarian situation so requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e364	The Progress Party and Højlund are talking about liberalisation. If we look at the Norwegian farmers, there's one thing that marks them, and it's that they're small. In one area, they're big, which often wonders people abroad: it's that one can drive in Norway, and then one can say that there's a slaughterhouse, there you see a dairy. The point is that it is the Norwegian farmer who owns this through the cooperative tank, which started in England 100 years ago. We have slowly, but surely built up a way to regulate food production in Norway. I spoke late yesterday with a pig meat producer. He said, now we've achieved the goal of balancing the market. The peasants themselves are responsible. Farmers are partially paid from this hall via licenses to operate market customisation. Does Høglund see that one with a complete liberalisation of this scheme will tear down what we have tried to build up, and perhaps above all prevent one from developing in many developing countries that are moving towards a further processing of its product? The problem today for many peasants out in the world is that one has no further processing. One thing is that one doesn't get into the world market, another thing is that one of course it also gets the problem that food just rots away, because one doesn't have industry that can process it further. Does Høglund see these consequences of his liberalisation proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e369	With regard to the liberalisation of trade in goods, developing countries face problems in exporting raw materials, but problems tend to increase the more processed goods. It is one of the same problem we have with Norwegian fish in relation to the EU – we sell the fish raw, and it is further processed in Europe. If we liberalise and tackle some of the trade barriers and problems that developing countries really face, we will have to do something about this, and developing countries will have to take new initiatives to create industry and further develop their own raw materials. This is a major problem today, with the system of customs duties in many parts of the world. Of course, liberalisation and desubsidisation of Norwegian agriculture will have consequences in Norway, and, of course, what can be demanded is limited overnight. But we want to see a direction, that you point out a direction. It's probably true that within farmers' own organizations and circles you've seen that this is something that's coming, and that you have to deal with it, but it's coming very late, and it's coming very little, and there's a great deal of pressure to get further action here. We believe that, from a political point of view, we have a lot to do with putting pressure on this, so that we too can be proud of the policy we are pursuing towards the developing countries, even though, of course, in a global context, it means little to the dissipation of the actors that the European Union and the United States stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e374	The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Right Party Leader, said in an interview last week that the oil money «burns in his pocket» to Carl I. Hagen. It is in itself a dramatic picture, but on the Day Revy it was made even more dramatic, because it was said that he had claimed that Carl I. Hagen is burning oil money in his pockets. When I came to think about this, it was because the most surprising element in Höglund's posts was the way he came to think that now the Progress Party can well imagine using remedies, but on one condition, that there is oil money and not normal money used. To that, there might be a lot of things to say. The reality is that whether you now book it over one or two budgets, there is a total increase in the expenditure framework, and sometimes you can get the impression that there is exactly the highest objective of the Progress Party at the moment – to increase the overall expenditure framework for the Norwegian state. But the other approach is the users of this money, the receivers – they probably won't notice any significant difference if the money is oil money or other money, and that's what makes me think about it. Why is it OK from the Progress Party to spend money on ordinary assistance measures, only this money comes from the oil wealth and not from anywhere else? If the criticism that the Progress Party has constantly led against Norwegian aid policy is still valid, it must be equally valid if the money is of one or the other or the third kind. I would very much like to get an explanation of this from Højlund's side. Is this aid policy, or is it just an objective to increase Norwegian government expenditure as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e381	Our criticism of Norwegian aid in general is firm, but as I stressed in a reply with the representative Blankenborg, we have been willing in some areas, mainly health, education and debt relief measures, also within the ordinary state budget to participate in some very large appropriations, and I also stressed in my speech that it was this part of the aid we saw to be covered. I used an argument in relation to our oil and energy policy – which gives us a very high profit, among other things. As a result of our working together, perhaps too closely in our opinion, with a cartel like OPEC – and therefore perhaps the concept of oil money came. We talked about a foreign budget, a budget with funds spent abroad, which does not have a inflationary effect in Norway, and which therefore does not contribute to a pressure on interest rates, which we of course agree we should avoid. This should be the easiest thing to think about: Money that does not lead to a pressure on Norwegian interest must be money used in other parts of the world. Therefore, it should probably be very easy to start building up a foreign budget related to parts of the assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e386	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e389	For us in SV, it is good to see that we have a development minister who is very committed and who is presenting a good report on development policy. That's not all we're in, and that's what I intend to use approx. 10 minutes. It is a little disappointing that the distribution is held once again without reference to the concrete results of the Norwegian aid. People don't want to accept 14 billion dollars a year without telling us more clearly what these money is going to. SV has previously requested that the distribution should be more oriented towards summing up results and experiences, and not just the long lines ahead. It would have forced us to see a little bit more critical of what is being achieved and not. For most people in Norway, it would also be easier to follow in the aid debate – what is going well, and what is going bad. It would, at my discretion, support under the most important of all assistance: the contact from people to people, which is based on information and gives commitment. Where I don't agree, it may have something to do with different levels of trust in the systems that surround the assistance, and that will put in place the will that exists in the Norwegian people to contribute to a more fair value. I made myself an experience a few years ago, when I worked with assistance. We had created a plan for training in the field of agricultural cooperation, several of us had worked cross-culturally – and all these fine words that applied then – we had made a lot of paper and traveled around so that this would be as possible. We came to the first village to inform about what we had been working on, and this looked very good. Then we asked them to get ready for the next meeting, where we were going to come and teach. It was a little quiet, but then there was a guy who said it would be all right, if we got him who can read, we're going to get him to read these documents for us. So we kind of got a proper sixteen and had to reconsider all the plans. We had to go down to an even lower level. We had to try, in cooperation with other people's organizations, to get alphabetization. We must constantly ask ourselves if assistance comes to those who need it the most, and if requirements for systems that build around assistance seem to be that purpose. Recently, a report from the so-called SAPRIN network has been presented to show that structural adjustment through the World Bank has in a number of ways weakened the economy in the countries concerned and rather promoted poverty. We have to ask ourselves whether the trade regimes that are now seeking to build up through the WTO really seem the poorest. The Minister for Development says that we need to reduce barriers to trade and cancel debts. The latter is easy to agree with, but building down barriers to trade may seem contrary to the purpose of creating growth in the south. Firstly, we have an enormous overproduction in Western agriculture for the time being, an overproduction just waiting to be dumped in the south. And in many ways we give away this overproduction and call it aid or relief, which can destroy local production. Market parts are called fine, but it's actually a hard fight for the peasant to sell their goods in a local market. The local farmer may have problems competing locally, so thinking that he will be able to cope globally is not so easy to see. We are actually talking about having the right to protect their own market, protectionism – in my opinion, a positive change when it is used in the right way. Norway also needs it, if we want to use the whole country. We're going to have an agriculture that uses the little resource base we have to produce food. However, when we do this in an ecological way, without too much use of spraying, fertilizer and power feed — imported power feed even — there will be a lot more that we can spend on free trade. Or maybe we shouldn't put it out for free trade, but unilaterally say that what we can't produce ourselves, we're essentially going to let the countries in the south supply us with. We're in a situation where it's not uncommon for a regular Norwegian to have a 12-14 kg power feed, which in worst cases could be imported from Sudan. This is an agricultural policy that we cannot see in the future. Such production must be brought down. A production must be practised on the basis of the resource base in Norway. But then we are also in the situation that we can say that this protects us – just like Lesotho or Botswana can do the same. If we're going to build trade barriers, I'm afraid that it will be the strongest right that will apply. We have to get a fairer trade in the world, and nothing is in the way of dragging the UN into this path. UNCTAD, the United Nations Trade Organisation, has been stalling with this for a long time, but has not gained sufficient authority in this area. The great advantage of giving the United Nations overpowering power here is that one then brings some democracy to the purchase. The fact that it also gives the UN more status is not quite enough to germinate. We are in front of the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development. I asked the Foreign Minister a while ago here in the Chamber what goal Norway had set for the work here at home, to show that we had done something. I got the answer that I had asked the wrong government council, and that national strategy, not to talk about the national agenda, did not belong to the U.D.'s field of work. I agree with the environmental movement, which claims that it should never have a doctor in the U.D., and our U.D.'s responsibility, but it's bad when you don't know that you're working with this in the department. Organic farming, alternative energy, etc. – there are quite a lot of things that have doctors under Local Agenda 21, with which people in Norway operate, whether they are voluntary organizations, a lot of municipalities or individuals. In a way, no one knows what Local Agenda 21 is, but everyone is driving it daily. We were supposed to have this in our suitcase to Johannesburg, to show that Norway too is going to lead. It would also be nice for Norwegian municipalities to know that the work they did was appreciated. Then, it is better with the Government's action plan on poverty, not least the emphasis on the country's own poverty strategies. SV is very pleased with a plan that points forward in time, and that is successful in identifying the extent and complexity of poverty problems. However, I do not have a thorough discussion of the conflicts that could arise on the basis of a thought of disposing of poverty. In any case, one must think that values should be distributed better, and one may even need to change ownership structures. The ratio of the dealer page to the receiver page attached to power should have been discussed a lot more in the distribution. We had then had a better debate here in the Chamber, because we had seen more about what we put conditions in our assistance. We might have obtained a real proof that, for example: Our demands for human rights and good governance really stimulate good forces in developing countries, or that we set out examples of what I referred to from the SAPRIN report, that aid can intervene in power constellations in cooperation countries in such a way that it does not feel the poorest. With the risk of thinking too much about Norwegian circumstances, I would say that Norway has the most to contribute internationally, is the cooperative construction of the peasant community and the workers' movement's inherent distribution through the struggle for pay and social benefits. But is this what we pulled out with a lot of money, peace initiatives and an insatiable battle for the UN? I'm asking the question, because I want us to have the best possible debate on these questions, so at least we in this room are clear about what ideological basis we're providing assistance on. Then we'll be better able to see the power structures that we support or try to tear out. I just have to turn a little bit, President, because I see that it goes over all the boots of time! It is very striking that the Middle East is not mentioned by a word in the pronunciation – the word ‘Palestinian’ is to a large extent mentioned – because it is not just the Foreign Minister’s table. Most of the Norwegian support for the Middle East goes over the aid budget, among others. 165 million. D on regional concessions and refugees. We have used approx. Two billion dollars since 1993, and a lot of what has been built for these money, have been destroyed, much recently, as the people's house in Nablus and the statistical central agency. It is strange that one in the series does not have any reviews. Is the Council of State afraid to take up the Middle East problem because it is so close to us, and that the debate goes daily? In Afghanistan, Norway has a double role in participating in both the war and peace. Do we have a clear relationship with what we are doing in Afghanistan? Is it the civil people's woe and well we think the most about, or is it our allies' power strategies for the region that count the most? Are we happy in the role of both warlord and aid giver, and can these two roles have conflicting interests? It is important for the Minister of Development to pay particular attention to: Africa, which otherwise doesn't get so much attention in the debate in question, but it can't leave the things that people in Norway are currently most concerned about, for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e419	The President would like to commend the representative for having adapted to the clock in an excellent way. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e424	When I was at a conference for development in Monterrey, Mexico, many of the things that have been mentioned in the debate here were highlighted. The progress is a bit critical of how the money is spent. We have an aid of NOK 12.1 billion last year, and my impression is that the other parties have an easy way of dealing with other people's money. In 20 years, the world's population has increased by 1.6 billion people. We also believe that development is created not from the outside, but within a country. Many African countries claimed that ‘they wanted to trade before AIDS’. We in the Progress Party have been a proponent and believe that an important part of this is among other things. to cancel debts. But, of course, the Progress Party will also assess corruption and what is going on in internal and external wars when considering what help should be given. We also see that there are a lot of help organisations that might have been an advantage to gather for less, to have better control. With regard to the gross national income of donor countries, Norway has reached 0.9 pst. The UN target is 0.7 pst, and America is at 0.1 pst. I would like to ask Jacobsen, who defends the Norwegian farmer: does the representative think that the goods that most of the developing countries can sell, namely agricultural products, are not to be bought by Norway, to protect Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e435	It was very nice to get hold of there, it was GNI, and it was mainly to erase debt. I'm glad the Progress Party will cancel debts. But then the question is whether we are pursuing an agricultural policy in Norway that makes it impossible for poor countries to participate in trade in agricultural products. No, of course not, but we have to be willing to say that we can't just let this go completely. We can't let the market fix this. We also know that first of all we have to get words like ecology and driving in a resilient way. We are not getting this without further notice. I would have been happy if the market had solved those problems. I have even threatened Norwegian farmers that if we do not get Norwegian production of some organic products, we would have to say that we must have free imports of them. The market can definitely be used in certain areas. It is international trade and solidarity that will be able to balance world food production. This requires both international agreements and international negotiations, rather than liberalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e444	I listened with great interest to the posts of the representative Jacobsen, but I was a little in doubt about whether there was an article in the Norwegian agricultural debate or an article in the Norwegian development debate. I had a kind of feeling that the first really played a bigger role than the last one in Jacobsen's posts, and that's probably some of the problem we're dragging with us in Norway in this context. We have relatively easily been able to practice double accounting in the way we deal with trade policy and development. Now the representative Jacobsen presented a whole philosophy about the concept of protectionism, which, as far as I understood, Jacobsen considers to be a positively charged concept. He added correctly: if it is practiced correctly. That's a pretty substantial addition. I would like to challenge Jacobsen a little bit about what is a proper practice of protectionism. Is it a proper form of protectionism when the US protects its steel industry from, for example, Europe? Was it a proper form of protectionism when Albania – which I had the mixed pleasure of visiting before the great transformation in Europe – practiced an absolutely hermetically confined economy, which led the country back to the Middle Ages in a few decades? Does it make any difference in Jacobsen's worldview of trade that, in fact, free trade developments have led to a rather severe reduction in the number of poor people in the world over recent years? The problem with the addition of Jacobsen – ‘when it is used in the right way’ – is that he really requires each country to have its own set of rules and decide for itself. That's all right. But how do we interact, if everyone has to have their own set of rules of the game?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e454	Protecting against — protectionism means protecting against — will, for most countries, apply either to areas of industry or to other parts of society that will need to be protected. We know, for example. that Canada uses enormous resources in cultural protectionism, because they will retain their cultural heritage, they will not drown, for example. in culture from the United States. There are a lot of ways to protect things that you want to protect. After all, no pay knows that we in SV have been involved in moaning, along with Right, this with customs freedom for the least developed countries. I must agree with Inge Wage that trade is promoting development. Trade brings more people out of poverty. I'm definitely in agreement with that. Maybe I'm a little rude saying that protectionism is good -- it's good if it's international, if it's only UN-based, if we leave it a democratic basis to negotiate protectionism, where everyone's in it. That's how we built Norway. The same is true of other countries. This is part of how we build the world, through negotiations, understanding, etc. Then there will be a protectionism that can be accepted by other parties, because one understands that there is a need to protect certain parts of a country's interests. That maybe I should have found better and more examples than Norwegian agriculture, I'll agree, and I'll probably come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e459	I sat down at the representative Jacobsen's question about Norway thrives in the role of both warlord and aid provider in Afghanistan. I now think it is time for SV to explain what the SV's strategy should be for Afghanistan. After all, we heard Kristin Halvorsen say quite many times that every day it is bombed in Afghanistan, the Taliban is strengthened. So according to SV, probably now the Taliban is stronger than ever. We noticed that the SV stopped proposing to stop the bombing at some point. I would like to ask the representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, what is the SV's strategy? We saw this weekend that the head of government Karzai was hailed by thousands in his hometown of Kandahar. I have to ask SV if the Taliban, according to SV, should still have been in power in Afghanistan. That must, of course, be the conclusion of the policy put forward by Mr SV in this Chamber. Should the al-Qaeda terrorist network be at peace to promote its planning of terrorist actions? We know that the Taliban certainly pursued a quite good agricultural policy, because they produced violently with opium – 10 tons of opium per year. In the 1970s, it grew to 1 200 tonnes in 1989 and 4 600 tonnes in 1999. But they were probably dependent on a rather globalized trade to get to this, and were probably not adherents to the protectionism that SV stands for. I would like Bjørn Jacobsen to explain now whether SV believes that the Taliban should still be in power, and if not, what is SV's strategy to change the regime in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e466	I can assure the representative Rise that no one rejoiced more than SV when it turned out that the Taliban regime fell – I was close to saying faster than fraud, at least faster than many expected. What we believed – where I myself, SV and to the extent that others were wrong – was that the war was actually going to last longer. So far, it has been called for, says unofficial information, approx. 3,000 civilian lives. That's why we're asking questions all the time, because there's a dilemma in Norwegian politics when we're both going to have the warlord role and we're going to have the development role. We asked for, for example, bombing in the past, last year, just to make assistance more effective. We have to keep up the discussion all the time about whether it is possible to provide assistance, at the same time as one is going to operate with power strategies. The representative Rise mentions even this with opium, there are numbers that show that the production has gone up. We know that there are plans for an oil pipeline that is very strategic, through Afghanistan. So what I want to ask the Minister for Development is how we balance this. There are two roles, whether we want it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e471	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e474	First, I would like to thank Minister of Development Hilde Frafjord Johnson for a good and profound account. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for making Norway contribute to establishing a broad consensus in the fight against poverty. It is also positive that it has become part of the action plan to build alliances internationally in order to promote a policy for development that can be widely agreed on. The challenges developing countries face may look hopeless, but I believe that a negative trend can change. Many have criticised the Monterrey Conference and expressed disappointment at the results, but I believe the United Nations, with the conference, seized a historic opportunity to raise the poverty problem much higher on the political agenda of many world leaders. Only the fact that so many heads of state were gathered for the first time to discuss financing of development was a major advance in itself. Although not all expectations were met, we witnessed a significant change in the understanding of the importance of development policy, not least in the United States. The fact that there is now agreement to halve the world's poor from 1990 levels by 2015 also gives hope that poverty can actually be eradicated, if we really want to. Today, 100 million live in extreme poverty. They need help, and they need help now. We have a moral obligation to help those who need it, and Norwegian aid policy has always focused on the weakest of the weakest. It is positive that the Government's action plan has set a target of 40 pst. of our bilateral assistance will go to the least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries. This is how we can ensure that these countries get capital, as it is very difficult for them to get capital from other sources. Within countries, too, we focus on the weakest, those who need our help the most. It's no coincidence that Kofi Annan started his peace-price talk telling about the little girl who was being born in Afghanistan. The weakest in the world today are children, they are girls, they come from land characterized by war, distress and conflict. The Christian People's Party has always been concerned with children's rights and the work of ensuring children a decent life and a good upbringing. On Wednesday, the UN Special Session for Children in New York begins. There is a milestone in the international effort to strengthen children's rights and well-being. For Norway, it is important that we focus on the fundamental rights of children: the right to life, health and education and the right not to be subjected to violence. And I know that the Minister of Development in his speech at the children's summit will focus on commercial sexual exploitation of children. Unfortunately, such a session is needed because UNICEF confirms that the child sex industry is winning ground and is developing into one of the world’s largest growth industries. Trafficking in women and children takes place only in numbers of drugs and arms trafficking. It's been a horrible secret for a long time that children are being commercially sexually unused, sold to sex trade and prostitution, kidnapped and detained in brothel, and that men go on vacation to have sex with minors. People don't want to hear about this, and therefore the assaults have been hidden. This must not be allowed to continue. Children are our future, but they need help today. It's hard to imagine a worse violation of human rights than dealing with children for sexual purposes. Millions of children around the world have been forced into situations where they are grossly exploited for prostitution and child pornography. It's the systematic slave trade of our time. Sexual exploitation of children is always harmful. Children are never consenting sexual partners, children are always victims. The suffering is endless, and the damage is in many cases permanent. According to the UN Children's Convention with Additional Protocols, a child has the right to be protected from all forms of violence, sexual exploitation and harmful work, and it has the right to education and health care. All of these rights are broken when a child becomes commercially exploited. I am therefore pleased that the Cooperation Government has committed itself to increasing support for education to 15 p.m. of the total assistance. Education is one of the most important means of combating poverty and promoting sustainable development. Basic education for women and girls has given the best return. Education gives self-respect and opportunity for a living other than commercial sexual exploitation. Education leads to fewer childbirth, it promotes equality, it improves family health and women's higher income. Education is fundamental to building the country, and therefore it is also so central to the Millennium Goals of the United Nations. I am pleased that education will have an even greater place within parts of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, and I look forward with excitement to the work of the Minister for Development to develop an education strategy that can ensure basic education for all. I also hope that the Council of State will help Norway to ensure that education is a central element of the Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development. I am also pleased that children, young people and women should be given priority in terms of health. The clearest link between development and health is seen in the fight against HIV/AIDS. It's incomprehensible that 3 million people died of AIDS last year. All the villages in Africa are desolate. Again, grandparents are responsible for large children’s flocks. Many children are also infected with HIV. HIV infection and AIDS have also had a major impact on the commercial sexual exploitation of children. Firstly, there has been an increase in the number of orphans, thus pushing these children into a labour market where they are vulnerable to sexual exploitation. Secondly, misunderstandings about the fear of AIDS have led to a demand for ever younger sex partners. It thrives on myths that sex with virgins can cure AIDS. In Africa one hears of ghastly and scary examples of infants being raped to cure men for AIDS. The fight against HIV/AIDS must continue, and I am pleased that the Government will give priority to this work. The Co-operation Board has now committed itself to the annual grant of 1 pst. by GNI for assistance by 2005. When we give top priority to development aid, it is also important to ensure that the money is used well and efficiently. It is therefore a major issue to talk about the whole set of internal assumptions for development and about a good governance in the broadest sense. Development aid is now targeted at those countries that promote a good governance, as it has proved to be most effective. A good set of governance is a prerequisite for development. By channelling development assistance to non-governmental organisations, a helping hand can be provided to the poorest without underpinning an inefficient or corrupt regime. Democratic development with broad public participation is of great importance in increasing responsibility among politicians and in administration, and in the fight against corruption. In this context, political parties are important. In Norway, we have good experience in party politics and party actions, and we have knowledge that developing countries can benefit from in their democratisation process. The creation of a Norwegian centre for democratic cooperation is exciting. It is an action that is supported by several parties and their side organisations, and I believe that together we should be able to communicate the values of multi-party systems and free elections. The objectives of development policy are many – as are the actions. When we conduct such an offensive policy, we must also ensure that we have an appropriate organisation of development cooperation at home. The Minister for Development announced in her statement that she would evaluate the U.D. and NORAD. The goal is that we should have the most assistance possible for each krona. It is positive that the Council of State expects a broad review and evaluation to be completed in five months’ time. Good and effective support policies require sufficient capacity for planning, implementation and follow-up. I am therefore pleased that the Government not only puts the spotlight on a good governance in other countries, but also shows the will for a critical review of our own administration. I am also pleased that the Minister for Development has been so strongly stressed that peace and development are linked, and that the commitment to peace involves the development and fight against poverty. Mahatma Gandhi once said, 'We have enough for everyone's need, but not for everyone's greed.' If we take to heart the ongoing wars and conflicts, there is also much greed that triggers war. According to the State of the World, a quarter of the 49 wars and armed conflicts that took place in 2000, had a resource dimension in the sense that legal or illegal exploitation of resources contributed to triggering war, exacerbating war and financing war. And we have many ghastly examples of how countries that are rich in natural resources have actually been housed by civil war for many years. Angola is one example. They have huge diamond and oil deposits, and this has led to brutal civil wars over 25 years. Four million people have fled. One million people depend on foreign food aid. We also have many other examples of how diamonds and oil trigger war. Sierra Leone was described by the UN Ambassador in this way: the reason for the conflict is diamonds, diamonds, diamonds. And the United Nations diamond conflict has triggered some of the greatest peacekeeping actions and willingness to invest huge resources in military action. It is my hope that in the future we will see a similar willingness to bet on early warning of potential conflicts. Working on peace processes and dialogue between conflict parties is usually cheaper than financing war.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e513	Many of the developing countries have become a cardholder where others put money in and developments have remained silent. Many Heads of State are afraid of a development that threatens their position, and democratization is hindered by corruption and bribery. Nor does a majority have to be a Western democracy. The process of democratisation is also threatened by the use of external assistance by many rulers to secure their own position. What does the representative Rise think about this? As an example of what many said at the conference in Mexico, the representative from Sierra Leone can be mentioned. He said that the country had to be treated specifically because the civil war was over. They are aware that good leadership and funding are important, and therefore they need funding and investment from outside channelled through the country’s leaders, and debt reduction. He also said that trade is important for the development of the country, but that developed countries must then open their borders to imports from the country. Agricultural subsidies are expensive for both donor and recipient countries, as the WTO's forthcoming Secretary-General also said in a meeting with the Foreign Affairs Committee. Tax payers pay twice – first through the tax to pay subsidies, then by paying for expensive agricultural products. If you want to support farmers because they are nice people, you have to do it. But it does not help the poor in the world who are trying to sell their agricultural products, which is the only thing they can do. This, of course, puts Norwegian farmers in the boil, and I am not going to take this debate here, but ask the representative Rise: Will the Christian People's Party in government open up free trade in agricultural products?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e522	In the case of Heads of State who are primarily looking to secure their own position, we have received a very good review by the Minister of Development of how Norway will follow a wide range of countries that have been important co-operation countries for Norway. She mentioned in her presentation, which I hope the representative Steinsaker followed well in, several countries, among others. Zimbabwe, Mali, Madagascar and Rwanda. It is clear that this emphasis on a good governance will be very important in terms of channelling funds and to which countries. The representative Stensaker should think carefully through what is the reason why the United States at the conference he was attending in Mexico, announced a stepping up of aid of $5 billion a year. It must mean that the United States has discovered that assistance actually works, and that it is necessary to increase the level of assistance. I had hoped that maybe it was the most important lesson we could take with us from the conference in Mexico. With regard to the current government's willingness to open up larger imports from developing countries, both the Sem Declaration and the Government's poverty reduction action plan warn that the current government wants to reduce trade restrictions and to open up larger imports from developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e531	First, a little bit for this with the oil fund and child labour. I thought Lars Rise spoke well about this with child labour and the problems it creates. But can the representative Rise come up with any thoughts about this with the oil fund's investments? What did the Christian People's Party think of the stand, as it appears in the media today? Otherwise, I'll go back to the Middle East - 2 billion kroner have been spent there since the 1990s. Today most of the result of this lies in ruins, smashed by the Israeli war machine. The Palestinian self-government, established by the Oslo process, is now standing back, and the human sufferings of the last weeks have been very great on the Palestinian side. This should make the Norwegian Minister for Development so furious that at least one could hear it in such a way, but the situation in the Middle East is hardly mentioned, and it is in such a sober order that it is directly provocative. The Prime Minister is also very careful when he talks about the Middle East, and he continues to embarrass the two parties – getting the parties together, is like the slogan. Traditionally, the Christian People's Party has been one of the parties on the Storing which has shown the greatest tolerance to Israel. What does the Christian People's Party actually mean about the latest developments in the Middle East? Does not the Christian People's Party also mean that Israel must bear the primary responsibility for the present situation and that there must be stronger demands on Israel for political solutions? I hope the representative Rise can imagine coming to a meeting in this area. Because if we are to achieve peace in the Middle East, we must also be able to have a concrete and realistic debate in Norway, a debate that gives results and that creates a deal for things to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e542	I think there is quite a broad consensus in this Chamber that we all want a peaceful development in the Middle East. When the representative Jacobsen invites to place the primary responsibility on one of the parties, I don't know if I want to be fully involved, at least not when he says that Israel has to bear the primary responsibility. We know that the acts of violence that we have seen over the last 18-19 months have been triggered by a strong will to use suicide terrorists, and there has been a terrible situation in Israel, where there must be uncertainty and uncertainty as to when the next bomb will explode. So it's too easy to say that Israel has to bear the primary responsibility. We don't believe that violence is the solution to the problems, and I think maybe a little too many have just military solutions in their heads. But what Norway should do now is to help bring the parties together in a dialogue, and then we have to be more concerned about it than about allocating blame among the parties. With regard to the issue of the oil fund and child labour, the central government had a fairly broad review of the possibilities of governing where these locations are going to take place, and we got a lesson in how difficult it might be. But now it is also decided that the extraction mechanism should also apply in the field of human rights. It's clear that it's complicated to get this done. It's been up here several times. SV has been very engaged in this, and we have been engaged. It is not on will when it comes to controlling where the funds of the oil fund are placed, and it is going to get more focus in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e549	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e553	I will begin by noting that it is very gratifying that Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi is released from house arrest. Her courage and perseverance are admirable, and she has made it easy for the international community to support her cause. But the path to democracy and freedom is still very long in Burma. The release of Aung San Suu Kyi must therefore not help to reduce the pressure on Burma from the international community. The involvement of governments, parliamentarians and non-governmental organisations must continue. The centre party is very pleased with the Minister for Development's presentation. It confirms sound priorities supported by a broad majority of the Stortinget and which have been gradually developed over 50 years with Norwegian assistance. Experiments in aid policy are not foreseen in the future. There is no need for that either. We look forward to the budget for the autumn and expect the government to take a solid step towards reaching the goal of 1 pst. of GNI in aid. The Minister for Development has provided a broad evaluation and review of the entire aid management both at home and abroad. We will give tribute to this initiative. In previous times we had a relatively stormy debate in Norway about how much money would go to aid management. This was a period of pointless debate in which aid efficiency was measured in the proportion of each aid budget allocated to the administration, regardless of the type of assistance involved. Gradually, understanding has increased that the most effective assistance is often the most labour-intensive assistance from the donor, such as institutional and organisational development. Per. Today, we believe that one of the main weaknesses of the aid administration is the ability to follow up the governing bodies of multilateral organisations. This is an unusually important work, where it is possible to contribute with good craftsmanship to provide leadership for the organisations' courses. In key areas, Norway has much to offer. There is a need for administrative capacity to follow up the governing bodies, and there is a need for driving persons who are able to err in the way of multilateralism. We expect this relationship to be thoroughly discussed in the ongoing review. In its presentation, the Council of State was concerned with framework conditions and links between policy areas. I would like to dwell on this with the WTO, the oil fund and the Sustainable Development Follow-up Conference, Rio+10. Aid alone does not lift poor countries from poverty, as the Minister for Development stressed in his statement. Internal and external conditions are involved. The framework conditions for international trade are becoming increasingly important for developing countries. The centre party is concerned that WTO legislation does not take sufficient account of the poorest countries. Countries that are in a build-up phase of the economy need protection to a much greater extent than countries that have a well-developed market economy. It's easy enough to look to our own development. Developing countries need to protect their own industries in a build-up phase, just as we were given protection. The need for protection of the poorest countries needs to be addressed far better in the WTO than is the case today. Similar legislation for all countries – on which the WTO is based – fundamentally differs from one country to another at different stages of development. The forthcoming WTO negotiations must provide Norway with a main task of contributing to ensuring adequate protection for the poorest countries. The poorest countries often find themselves in poor international negotiations because they lack institutions and competences that enable them to take care of their particular interests. Norway should, to a far greater extent than today, use assistance to enable the poorest countries to safeguard their interests in the WTO negotiations. This is about short-term action, given that countries are given the opportunity to be physically present in the negotiations, and it is about longer-term action, in relation to competence and institutional development in the field of trade. Press releases on investments made by the oil fund are extremely depressing reading. The Minister for Development should make a strong commitment to contributing to the immediate development of ethical guidelines for the use of the Oil Fund by the Government. It has been demonstrated that Norwegian investment via the oil fund has far-reaching negative consequences in relation to people in developing countries. The people we are trying to help undermine us in parallel by investing our wealth in companies that are destroying the environment and that are helping to reduce people's humanitarian situation through investments in, for example, the environment. mining production and in companies using child labour. This simply has to stop. What we see is outrageous and unworthy. We know that significant progress has been made in finding mechanisms to ensure that investment ethics is safeguarded. The Rio+10 conference in Johannesburg, as it is very important. It is important to all of us because it addresses two major challenges in our planet: the fight for the environment and the fight against poverty. In the light of continuous environmental degradation, unvalued poverty and new poverty, the Johannesburg Conference must lead to concrete action plans and defined objectives. It does not hold for the world's poor that the conference ends with a desire that the world should have looked different. The conference has to be able to say how we're going to move on, and how the world can look different. It must define a clear action plan, with verifiable objectives and financial resources available. This is very demanding, but the conference is just giving this opportunity. In view of the importance of the conference, the Central Party will invite the Prime Minister to make a presentation to the Stortinget on the preparation process and Norwegian ambitions and objectives of the conference. We ask the Minister for Development to help this happen. Unlike the Minister of Development, we believe that the Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, Mexico, in March, did not show that the rich countries have understood that contributing to the fight against poverty is also a contribution to ensuring global security. After the events of 11 September last year, we had far greater expectations for this conference. Rio+10 provides an opportunity to address the lack of concreteisation and action plans from Monterrey. Our common globe needs commitments, both in relation to the environment and in relation to poverty. We can't let any more chances go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e577	How effective aid money is spent on those who need it the most depends on the country's governance. It brings me to one of the questions in this debate. Those who have been champions of a Western multi-party model are accused by some of them of Western cultural imperialism, of the fact that African democratization has taken place without sufficient African involvement. The question is: is Africa really to be democratised? The answer is well: yes and no. Here it must be remembered that African culture is largely based on tribality, loyalty to tribe and family – and to a lesser extent to the rule of the country. In my conversations with ordinary people in Africa, I discovered that much of the Western way of thinking falls on stone ground. For example, AIDS is the most common cause of death in Rwanda. When asked if the use of condoms would have improved the situation, the answer was that there was no child of it. Children were dependent on them, the family was to be secured in old age. Then you kind of get the relationship with who comes first, the chicken or the egg -- one depends on the other. The next question in this debate is how legitimate and fruitful the Western interference in Africa really is. Is it time for an Africanisation of democracies, or is this a process of maturation that has not been completed? I guess the answer must be yes. My question is: What is the representative's view on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e588	It is an interesting debate the representative of Stensaker travels, and on which we had fruitful exchanges of views for a few years ago in connection with Norwegian aid. I would like to see that today, too, we might have dared to go into that kind of debate more than what we are doing. Personally, I have – not least after living a good part of the world, where culture and mindset are completely different – a lot in comparison to whether it is fundamental cultural imperialism that we conduct when, among other things, we do. providing assistance. After going through these things with me with solid rounds of sail and thinking, I became more and more aware that we are going to guard ourselves in this landscape. But at the same time, there are some very fundamental values that we have to take with respect for man. Therefore, aspects related to human rights, related to individual freedom, which are not least related to gender, i.e. rights related to being a child, are so fundamental and so elementary that any social development should be built on them. I believe that the whole debate on aid should be based on the fact that there are some basic and fundamental ideas about what we think is human dignity, which should be at the bottom. If you choose to take that as a starting point, I think one will find that most of what we do in the field of assistance is unproblematic, but I think it's wise periodically to take some debates in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e597	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e600	We mark the 50th anniversary of Norwegian aid this year. Norway has been at the forefront of solidarity with developing countries in these years. Swallowing if major progress has been made for some of the world’s poor countries remains a major challenge. A large part of the world's population still lives on a minimum of existence. A significant part lives in an acute and life-threatening emergency. The UN declaration at the turn of the millennium draws up very important but also very ambitious goals for development, including: halving the proportion of the world's population living in extreme poverty. The left supports these objectives. It's ambitious goals, they're hard to achieve, but this should be the greatest international promise in the future. I agree with the Minister of Development's assessment that these objectives can be achieved by strengthening efforts in several areas. Debt relief, investment, access to new markets and assistance are all important factors in the development of poor countries. At the same time, democratic development is a necessary condition for the fair distribution of growth and protection of human rights. Before the cooperative government presented the state budget in the autumn, it was still claimed, for example: from the Workers' Party, that the Government was going to reduce the aid. The left was also around the table, and we could prove that the Workers' Party's predictions were wrong. On the contrary, Norwegian aid is record high, and the Government aims to increase the aid budget to 1 pst. of gross national income by 2005. The government has also presented an action plan to combat poverty in the south, which will be fundamental to Norwegian development policy in the future. The Minister for Development stressed in his statement that the Norwegian action plan must be very ambitious in order to achieve the objectives of the Millennium Plan. For the first time, therefore, a broad evaluation and review of the entire aid management is to be carried out so that Norwegian assistance can be even better. The left welcomes such an evaluation. Assistance is still a necessary tool in development policy. More of Norwegian aid must be directed towards democracy and the strengthening of human rights. Democracy is a necessary prerequisite for ensuring human rights and a more socially equitable development. It is also an important prerequisite for economic development. Without a system of governance in which the population can throw its leaders at elections, there is no confidence in stable social and political developments, which is once again necessary to ensure new investment. The Left therefore believes that Norway must also make demands for respect for democracy and human rights in relation to its countries of cooperation. Many violations of human rights target women and children in particular. However, too little attention has been paid to these abuses. The use of children as soldiers must be controlled. Access to education and work, voting rights, the fight against sexual and other physical abuses, not least in war, and measures against the use of interception are areas where Norway needs to intensify its work. The death penalty cannot be accepted in either war or peace. Norway must promote a worldwide ban on the execution of capital punishments. The internationalisation of business confronts Norwegian enterprises with new ethical and legal obligations. The left considers it important that Norwegian companies include human rights considerations in their foreign strategy. Norwegian enterprises should ensure high standards of employment and production conditions and take social responsibility in the countries in which they operate. Civil society and voluntary organisations play a very important role in development policy. The voluntary organisations contribute to the development of organisations in the recipient countries, both as watchkeepers and critical corrigenda. This is an essential part of development work. The left will stress that strict requirements for the professionalisation of voluntary organisations need not be imposed in order to be able to participate in the assistance work. It will create too much space and too much bureaucracy. The strength of voluntary organisations is precisely in the strong public commitment. This must always be grounded. More non-governmental organisations than the five large ones must be able to contribute to the assistance. The Minister of Development announced that the Government will propose to establish a separate Youth Programme under the leadership of the Peace Corps, which will support the many youth exchange programmes run by a number of non-governmental organisations. A Youth Panel shall also be established with representatives from youth organisations. This panel shall be able to critically assess development policy. The left considers this to be a very important initiative. It gives young people greater influence and better opportunities to work internationally. Voluntary youth organisations have already developed cooperation projects with like-minded organisations in developing countries. For example, a project I know well, a project that Norwegian 4H has in cooperation with his sister organisation in the Gambia. Further efforts need to be made to develop more such good local projects that generate involvement here too in Norway. As part of democratic development, support is needed to build political parties in developing countries. We are not going to export our party system, we are going to help support the development of multi-party systems, the implementation of free elections and the promotion of more young and more female politicians. The left has long cooperated with sister parties around the world and has very good experience in that work, both in terms of what we can contribute to development in other countries, and in terms of getting ideas from outside. It is very positive of the Government to establish a Norwegian centre for democratic support to help strengthen such democratic work. The government has decided that Norway should join the international sanctions against President Mugabe in Zimbabwe and his close supporters. The left supports the decisions. It is important to strengthen the international pressure against Mugabe and his government. Norway must help to make the authorities of Zimbabwe respect human rights and democratic rules, stop political violence and work for national reconciliation. It is also important to focus on the consequences of the unrest in Zimbabwe for the countries around it. Zimbabwe has traditionally been the food chamber of southern Africa, and because of the drought, but also because of Mugabe's policy in Zimbabwe, I would like to draw attention to the humanitarian disasters that are currently under way in two of Norway's main countries of cooperation, Zambia and Malawi. Several million people are in danger of starvation. It's a very dramatic situation, and it requires immediate action. Assistance is central to development, but increased market access for developing countries is equally important. In order to ensure the development of the world’s poor countries, these countries need greater access to the world market. Norway must become a driving force in order to ensure that the next WTO negotiations effectively safeguard the interests of developing countries. In addition to promoting greater stability and accountability in global financial markets, Norway needs to increase assistance for institution and competence building in beneficiary countries. Not least, it is important for poor countries to have access to new technologies. Norway must be an active contributor to the debate on alternative forms of development funding. The cancellation of debt is perhaps the most important single measure for development in many poor countries. It is very important that the Government's debt plan be followed up in order to make the international debt cancellation initiative more robust. Debt relief must be speeded up for those countries that have shown a strong commitment to reform and poverty reduction. Norway, together with other creditor countries, must also intensify its efforts to coordinate further debt reduction. International credit supervision mechanisms should be established to ensure a responsible lending policy nationally and internationally. This may have been one of the first foreign policy debates to be held on 11 September. But maybe it's also a little bit about September 11. The work for democracy and the fight against poverty is also important in the fight against terrorism. Or as one writer said in the New York Times a few days ago: if you catch a terrorist who comes from a people without hope, you create ten terrorists. You catch a terrorist from a people with hope, you catch a terrorist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e649	It is gratifying that there is broad political agreement on the main features of development policy. Norway is a rich country, where people are fortunately concerned with the difficult challenges facing people who have not been so lucky with their birthplace. A billion people live in deep poverty. The Millennium Goals are ambitious and an international power cap is required. After a number of key actors reduced their assistance in the 1990s, it is good to, for example, The EU and the United States have announced concrete escalation plans, and that the debate in Monterrey, Mexico, in March this year, showed that the rich countries have now understood that the fight against poverty is also a struggle for global security. The Conference on Financing for Development took some important steps forward, but there is still a problem that there is not enough willingness to finance the United Nations activities and to use new instruments. It is linked to the United Nations Special Session for Children starting these days. There is every reason to rejoice that thousands of children have already been rescued after the entry into force of the Global Vaccine Initiative for Children, GAVI. Here the previous government showed that it is useful to go ahead in new areas. I would also mention that Norway has ratified the ILO Convention against the worst forms of child labour. The Convention provides a binding framework for our cooperation with a number of developing countries. I expect the Government to follow up these important areas of activity in order to improve the situation of children. I look forward to attending the food summit in Rome, the Johannesburg Conference and Rio+10 this fall. The world has enormous knowledge of both the problems of poverty and environmental problems. The big question goal is whether we have the right tools, and not least whether we're willing to use them. It is my hope that these conferences will lead us some further in the right direction. The co-operation administration continues to carry out many actions on which the Stoltenberg government placed great emphasis. This applies, inter alia, to: bet on a good steering set. I think it is also important for the opening-up of aid work in Norway that people can feel confident that the efforts support regimes that promote democratic development and that respect fundamental human rights. As I interpret it, there are also criteria on which the Council of State has placed great emphasis in the evaluation of cooperation countries. We know that aid has little positive effect in countries with poor governance. That's why it was, for example. correct closure of Zimbabwe as a priority cooperation country. Good governance means democratisation, fair distribution, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and responsible resource management. It's also about gender equality. I welcome the recognition by the Council of State that international framework conditions, such as: traffic rules for trade, often affecting the development of a country more than aid. We got a strong impression of this when we visited the new Director-General of the WTO, Dr. Supachai Panitchpakdi. It will be an important task for the Norwegian government in the WTO negotiations to make a positive contribution to the development of agricultural issues. It was an important decision to introduce customs freedom for MUL countries from 1 July this year. It will be interesting to follow up on how this new option will affect LDCs. A key condition for a country to develop is a strengthening of the agricultural sector, and I welcome the state council's announced commitment to agriculture in developing countries. Governments are further alerting a broad review of the aid management, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD, as well as the embassies in our countries of cooperation. All organisations and all instruments need regular evaluations. NORAD is a central instrument of Norwegian development policy today and a major manager of public funds. The allocation system used by vis-à-vis non-governmental organisations should also be part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e668	When the recently appointed Director of the World Trade Organisation, Supachai Panitchpakdi, visited Norway, he had some very clear messages with him in the suitcase for us. To the evening post on 11 April he said: ‘Agriculture is crucial for most but not all developing countries. Major cuts in subsidies to agriculture are important; the OECD countries spend a total of USD 360 billion a year on agricultural subsidies is a type of tax worldwide.» [[over 3100 billion kroner]] We also heard the same message when he visited the Foreign Affairs Committee, where he said that agricultural production subsidies had to be replaced in the long term by other forms of support for agriculture. We can no longer close our eyes to the fact that Norway is among the most protectionist countries in the world in terms of agriculture. We are at the height of the extremely protected Japan and about twice as high as the level of the still protectionist EU. The WTO Director also had reasonably clear expectations that the next round of negotiations of the World Trade Organisation should have the development profile that the rhetoric would preface. So far, the world's countries have got the most out of globalisation. World trade in relation to gross domestic product increased from 27 to 39 p.m. between 1987 and 1997. in the countries of the European For developing countries, the proportion has increased from 10 to 17 pst. The WTO Director also said that he expects industrialised countries not to sit and wait for concessions from developing countries, but to take the initiative themselves to make concessions. This should be a clear reminder to us that the WTO will be an important area of development policy in the coming years, perhaps in line with the UN and other global actors, precisely because ‘aid can never alone lift a country out of poverty’, as the Minister for Development said. Trade is an important prerequisite for economic development and growth, which is once again a prerequisite for coping with poverty. However, I believe that we are on the right track, as mentioned earlier. All products from the MUL countries must have free access to the Norwegian market from 1 July, as long as they satisfy our quality requirements. I also think there is reason to stress that the Government has set itself the goal of increasing market access for goods from countries other than the 48 least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries. We should not forget that those developing countries that are in a way too rich to join the MUL category, but still have a high proportion of poor, can act as driving forces or as locomotives in a regional economic development, which could lead to even poorer countries in that region in a positive direction. However, the WTO Director also made it clear that many countries today have a very weak starting point for exporting goods. They need technical assistance at many levels, not least in order to benefit from the international trade legislation. Here I hope that Norway can contribute even more. In addition to the new government offensive on industrial development in our cooperation countries, I hope that we can follow the WTO agenda in this area. I think Norway can contribute to cooperation between the World Trade Organisation and other international actors, such as the United States and Japan. The United Nations system can improve, and they can work better together, in favour of a common cause, namely poverty reduction. So finally, over many years, the right has focused on the need for assistance to Russia. In particular, we have pointed out that in many places in Russia there is poverty that is not behind the poverty experienced by many developing countries, and that in this country, especially in North-West Russia, there is a special need for strong civil organisations that can help their own people in the long term and that Norway could have a role in building up such civil organisations. However, it has been difficult for us to get an impact on appropriations for this, not least because Russia is not defined as developing countries by OECD bodies. Therefore, aid to Russia cannot be defined as ODA assistance. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether it is possible to raise this issue in the OECD, so that aid to Russia can be described as ODA assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e692	The Minister for Development, in his statement last Tuesday, touched on the Government's action programme to combat poverty in the south. This action programme has many fine and important formulations, and I would like to take the opportunity to make a few quotations from the statement: ‘International and national framework conditions for trade in goods and services, liabilities and investments affect developing countries, often to a greater extent than assistance. We must therefore ensure that policies in these areas deliver in relation to poverty reduction.' And on the other hand, ‘Norwegian policies, for example: energy, fisheries and agriculture shall be reviewed in order to ensure that they are as consistent as possible with the objectives of development policy. Such a review will look at different aspects of our policies in order to clarify how we can better contribute to poverty reduction in developing countries.’ It must be a clear objective that our policies are linked in different areas, and I naturally support the work of reviewing all our policies in order to achieve this. It is also good that this is done during this year. It's about time, because it's urgent. The Norwegian oil fund amounted to approximately SEK 600 billion by the end of 2001. Now it's put on even more billions. These are revenues from a forced extraction of oil, which contributes to irresponsible climate warming on the soil that is common to both the poor in the south and the rich in the north. We've placed these revenues in the oil fund, and we're investing this money around to get the most economic return possible. We invest in child labour, genetic engineering, weapon production, production of environmental toxins, enterprises that deliberately undermine employees' working conditions, etc. This is well known for all who sit in the hall here, and in the Government. SV has for years asked for ethical guidelines for our investments. The answer has been largely, whether it is current or previous governments: we look at the matter, but it is very difficult to find ways to do this! Until now, as we know an extraction mechanism, which allows us to withdraw from scandalous investments in retrospect, has been the longest that any Norwegian government has wanted to reach. This is not good enough. If the Government considers that all policy areas should be reviewed in the light of the idea that international framework conditions and investments affect developing countries – and often more than aid – it must be natural to establish ethical guidelines that prevent us from manifestly having an unfortunate practice, such as that we have. contributes to the Rainforest Fund, which is worth 1.5 million. NOK to take care of the rain forest at Sumatra, while we invest 190 million. kr in a holding that cuts down the rainforest of Sumatra. I would encourage the Minister of Development to take a closer look at these contexts, so that we can make full use of our efforts to raise the income of the poorest in the south, and not just raise our income from what we extract from the North Sea oil fields. Of course, when other funds can establish such guidelines, we can do so in Norway. We can afford that! The Minister for Development presented the World Summit on Sustainable Development to be held in Johannesburg this year. This is a very important summit, to which many have great expectations. I share the development minister's view that Norway and other rich countries have a moral responsibility both to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions and to remedy the consequences, but I want to focus a little on another important issue where Norway has a responsibility. In 2001, there were about 50 wars or warlike conditions around the world, and total military spending amounted to NOK 17 000 billion. It is not difficult to imagine that these conditions have a huge negative impact on the environment and development. War and armed conflict and the production, trade and use of weapons of all kinds are causes of death and suffering, it prevents sustainable development, consumes our common resources and destroys and pollutes our livelihoods. This link between military sector activities and a lack of sustainable development is not on the agenda of either the Johannesburg World Summit or the Commission for Sustainable Development for incomprehensible reasons. I want to challenge the Minister of Development on this point. What will the Government do to ensure the link between peace, environment and development on the agenda at the Johannesburg meeting and in the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development in the future? Finally, I would like to thank Mr Rise for showing so clearly in his speech where he stands in the Middle East conflict. It says respect. Rise indicated that he did not perceive it so that Israel has a primary responsibility for the development we now see in the Middle East, and thus to contribute to a solution. It confirms the impression that Rise, as one of the leading politicians in the Christian People's Party, has not perceived the fact that Israel has now occupied Palestinian soil for 35 years, and that the main driving force in this conflict is that Israel does not withdraw from the occupied territories but does the opposite. With his statement, Rise is unfortunately involved in legitimizing Israel's actions. I now have the opportunity to clarify SV's view on this. These are not equivalent parties, but an occupied and an occupying party, and that occupation must be stopped!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e720	The UN Millennium Declaration represents a whole new approach to international cooperation for development. The Millennium Goals are concrete and the targets can be verified. Rich and poor countries have joined forces about them, and they agree. This is, in fact, a global and committed partnership. There is also agreement on how to achieve the development objectives and the instruments to be used. In addition, it is agreed that progress should be reported on a regular basis – on progress towards redemption. Here, the United Nations Development Programme, UNDP, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund will have key tasks. Indicators are now being used to monitor their fulfilment under the leadership of the UNDP, as the representative of Vallersnes was concerned. In the partnership between the poor and the rich, between the south and the north, the rich part of the world must do its job, make resources available and facilitate better framework conditions for development, while developing countries must do their job, improve their governance and ensure that limited resources are properly made available, for the benefit of the poor. The targets are defined. Key instruments are in place, and the cost of achieving the individual objectives is now being identified. The WHO has done this in the health field and found out what return it will actually give in terms of saved lives, and not least in terms of economic growth, to invest more in health. This is actually making it visible that we're facing a manageable problem. This will also apply to other objectives. Just this reporting review and indicator development will make it easier for us to report to Stortinget what results we get from development cooperation, as the representative Bjørn Jacobsen called for. It could also enable us to do this in the annual report. In my opinion, it is better that the report reflects results than that we should explain them in the development policy statement. Development policy presentation is, in my view, a tool for policy development, and that we can develop it in cooperation with the Stortinget. The Monterrey conference was supposed to show how the objectives could be achieved, and I fully agree with Haga's representative in this regard. We are not satisfied with the results of the Monterrey Conference, but we pointed out – and I pointed out in my statement – that it actually showed a change and a greater willingness to respond to the challenges and to show the willingness to reverse a downward trend in international aid. The United States and the EU's commitments contributed to this, but other countries too will now increase their allocations. We are in a time that really represents a kind of time shift and time separation in the field of development. Now it is important to contribute to the child’s attendance building up under this, and not least to our delivering at the Johannesburg Summit in September. The last thing I'm going to come back to. Our response to the challenges posed by the Millennium Goals is the poverty reduction action plan. It is ambitious and committed. It has also aroused international interest. It's a living plan, unlike many other countries' plans, and I've asked for views and input from the academic corner, the political environment and the organizations. The plan will be a platform for development policy debate and action in the future. That means it will be changed and adjusted along the way. This also applies to the review of other policy areas, which have been addressed by several speakers. As far as the oil fund is concerned, I can reassure the Stortinget that the Minister of Development, as an active member of the Government, is also taking part in this discussion. The government will provide a detailed explanation in the revised national budget of the relationship with the management of the extraction mechanism and human rights, as we have notified the Stortinget. The action plan itself shows that there are major and new demands on the traditional aid administration and on the ability to cooperate with a large number of actors at home and abroad. The transformation of development policy in recent years has also contributed to this. As I said in the statement, we will now carry out a broad evaluation and review of all stages of aid management and of the development policy apparatus in order to ensure that we are on the right track and that we use the resources effectively. This also includes the follow-up of the governing bodies of the multilateral organisations, which the representative Åslaug Haga had in mind, and on which I share her views. The review shall be carried out by an independent evaluation team and shall take place during the current year. Any changes will be implemented in 2003. After 50 years of Norwegian assistance and development cooperation, I think it is time for us to do just that. The action plan does not replace previous development strategies, which have also been agreed upon by the Storting. It incorporates them and presents an overall follow-up to the Millennium Goals and a more focused work. Some factors are more focused: The right perspective, with a focus on poor human rights.Education and human resources, where the Government will invest even more.Good governance, which is the background to the governance initiative presented in the presentation.Industrial development and trade, where we follow up the industrial development strategy. We will return to a greater commitment on the agricultural side when the expert group's work in this area is completed. Let me elaborate something more on the steering system side. I underlined the importance of both administrative and control measures in our countries of cooperation. Through development cooperation, we shall support society's vigilance, free media, political parties and non-governmental organisations. Some would argue that fragile democracies cannot be subjected to the kind of criticism and resistance that such forces represent. I disagree. We cannot impose exactly the same requirements on the poorest countries as on the prosperous countries as ourselves, on which the representative Vallers's praiseworthy nuance of claims was based. But it is very important that young and vulnerable democracies also have corrections. We have seen enough examples of political unification taking nations on a completely wrong course. The prerequisite for supporting such janitorial services is that the country's own authorities also see the value of them, and that we can play with them. We are now in the process of a broad assessment of the situation of the Governing Board in our main cooperating countries. On the basis of this review, we will see how we can best support different vigilances and contribute to a better development of the governance of the countries. I said in my statement that we will establish a centre for democratic support, where we will draw on the competence of the political parties. It is not our intention that we should use aid to build sister parties in the co-operative countries or carry out so-called political malignancy. What we want is to share our long tradition of democracy with countries and peoples in which democracy has been in short supply. I hope that the Government's invitation to cooperation is well received out there among the people, and that it is made available also from parties and parliamentarians to engage widely in this field. Our home volunteer organisations are also important partners, and I have put great emphasis on good dialogue with voluntary organisations. With that reduction in the percentage of organisations from 20 to 10 pst. which has now been completed, I hope that we have given the organisations the necessary room for action. We'll probably need a little bit of time to get the new system properly in place. We have to remember, it's 90 pst. financing by state resources is significantly more expensive than the old scheme. It's a challenge on the budget side. At the same time, resources will be released in organisations – we should also remember – so that they can invest even more strongly. I hope that they will focus on these opportunities, and look forward to further dialogue with them. Industry development and trade are essential for economic development and well-being. To turn on a well-known word game, Trade is Aid, which has been said many times. I would say with our focus on poverty reduction: «Trade and Aid» and «Aid for Trade». The last one is not least important. I am pleased with the focus many representatives have had on increasing trade and increased market access today, and I would like to express clear support for this on the part of the Government. I am also committed to stressing to the representative of Jagland the warning that new technical barriers to trade can now be created in order to find new ways of protecting markets. We have to be obsessive about that. But it is also the case that developing countries need to be guaranteed fairer trading conditions in international trade legislation. We have a good starting point for this with the Doha Development Round, under the WTO. There are greater opportunities than before to ensure better and fairer trading conditions for developing countries, but it obliges us in our follow-up to do so and to ensure that we do so. The SV’s representative was involved in the protection of developing countries and their markets. On the part of the developing countries, I have hardly noticed that this has been made as a significant and heavy requirement. The strongest demand from developing countries is now market access. That's actually what it's first focused on in almost all of the international meetings I attend. There's a significantly greater commitment in this field than I've experienced before. You experience what has been the case in international trade, as being bloody unfair. We should take this with us, while ensuring that the trading conditions of developing countries are fair and that they are also properly adapted, flexible and transitional arrangements in international legislation. Here, there's a balance we have to take care of in a proper way. Land assessments have been little reflected in this debate. I take that as a support to the Government's assessments. As far as Rwanda is concerned, I can assure the representative, Vallersnes, that we are monitoring the situation there. We are following closely, and the last words have not been said for all the future in the assessment of aid and assistance to Rwanda. The same applies to several of the other countries. To the representative Jacobsen: I took a pretty good place to assess the situation in the Middle East and the Palestinian territories. It received a review that was as extensive as for other countries. We certainly do not leave this. With regard to the situation there, there is no doubt that Israel has a heavy responsibility for the situation that has arisen and for the destruction that is taking place, while the Palestinians must also take their share of responsibility. [[The President clubs.]] Then I come back to Johannesburg, because that was my next point, hopefully in the lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e786	It is very rare to hear strong defences for protectionism as a positive instrument in development policy, such as the one on the agenda. The representative Bjørn Jacobsen had today. I also very much appreciate Jacobsen's social commitment, but here I have to say that I think we are wise to listen to what the representatives of the developing countries themselves say. There I fully agree with the Council of State that the main demand today – and has been since 1986, as long as I have been in the policy – is increased market access. I would like to reiterate that I think it is positive that the Council of State alerts investment in the agricultural sector, which I believe is very important both to ensure food for people in developing countries and because the development of agriculture is a necessary prerequisite for developing other sectors of society. It was also a very happy news that Norway opened the way for customs freedom for goods from MUL countries, a provision that will come into force quite soon, from 1 July this year. This is a decision that has given rise to positive international recognition, and is another area where Norway is seen as a priority country. Unfortunately, the developing countries experience too often are different kinds of technical barriers to trade or that their products are not considered to be good enough for us. My questions to the Council of State are as follows: Does the Government have a strategy to ensure that the goods of the least developed countries can enter our markets in reality and not just in theory? And does the government have planned mechanisms to ensure Norwegian producers against unforeseen major market disruptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e800	To the first question of our assistance to developing countries by the representative of Øyang so that they can produce goods that are available for sale both on the international market and on the Norwegian market, and not least keep the necessary quality standards, we in the strategy for industrial development in the south put down a considerable amount of work in which we signalled our willingness to build export lines from developing countries to Norway. Efforts have been made in this area in the past, but not systematically and not to the extent desirable. This applies, inter alia, to: exports from Uganda of cheap roses, which is a typical example of helping to build up production in a country, while contributing to export lines and imports into the Norwegian market and making use of the duty-free regime in this context. These are things that we will do more and that we are now working on in the context of the country review that is linked to the strategy for industrial development in the south. That's what we're talking about now in terms of trade for AIDS or trade and AIDS. The other area that is important is technical assistance: helping to build proper institutional structures in developing countries that allow them to deliver to the international market to a greater extent. With regard to the second question raised by the representative eyeågen, which is related to market disruption in the Norwegian market, the MUL Decision, i.e. zero for the MUL, or ‘everything but arms’, as it is called internationally, has the same EU as Norway. Although we might want to be foremost in the series, we are more in line with most European countries. The implementation of this Decision shall also include the establishment of a security mechanism linked to market disruption in the Norwegian market. It will be clarified how it is to be realised, developed and developed in practice in the context of its realisation on 1 July. Per. So on 1 July, the system will have to come into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e807	In the presentation and review of the co-operation countries, there is one country not mentioned. It is the country that may receive the most Norwegian assistance at the moment, namely Mozambique. In the same statement Zimbabwe is well mentioned, and we have now broken the aid to Zimbabwe. There are many good reasons for this – and no problems with that decision. What I would like to hear from the Council of State is the situation in Mozambique, and whether it is a simple decision for the Government to continue the assistance in the future in the way we have done. We are aware that there are some critics, not least internally in Mozambique, in relation to the regime, of course, but also to what this assistance does to maintain it. Unfortunately, journalist Carlos Cardoso, who was tragically killed, said in February 2000 to NTB that Norway is throwing the money out of the window, pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into nothing, and believing that they were agreeing to extend and exacerbate a system and a board. And other people who know Mozambique, say that cuts in aid will hit innocent Mozambicans much less than a continuing negative development. So my question is, has the government gone into a serious discussion of these issues, and how will one deal for the future with Mozambique and any further violations of human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e814	Let me stress that there was no full review of all the cooperating countries we did. What the co-operation administration did was look at the assessments that the previous government had prepared in the budget proposal. We mainly joined it, and notified only an adjustment and an assessment of the individual country, and that's what I'm reporting back to Stortinget about now. This means that we have not gone through all the co-operation countries fully, but have built on the previous government assessment. This is just for the record. With regard to the assessment of Mozambique in particular, it is not that this is a country where there are significant violations of human rights of the nature that make it comparable to Zimbabwe. The human rights problems in Mozambique are particularly linked to the situation in the police and judiciary and to what I would call child diseases within democracy, not least because it is a relatively fresh and young democracy after a long-standing civil war. However, there is not the kind of systematic human rights abuse that is seen in countries such as the United Kingdom. Zimbabwe. The second thing that is very important to have in mind is that the World Bank/IMF characterises Mozambique as a country with a relatively good governance, gives them excellent macro-economic characteristics, and assesses Mozambique to be in that class of cooperating countries that deserve the most support. It is the assessment of the international financial institutions. From the Norwegian side, we have been concerned about governance, not least in the fight against corruption. This means that we have entered into a difficult relationship with other donors in order to improve the management of Mozambique with a public sector reform and, secondly, to work with independent audit systems so that funds can be better controlled. This does not mean that we have any suspicion that Norwegian funds have not come up with the purposes for which we have prioritised them. We have no reason to believe that, but that means that we believe that Mozambique needs to do a better job in terms of anti-corruption. I don't want to characterize Mozambique as such a regime. President Chissano makes an honest effort, and there is absolutely reason to believe that they are willing to improve their governance, willing to do the job better, and then they also deserve Norwegian support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e825	I'm sitting with three versions of the Christian People's Party's Middle East policy. On 1 May, I had the pleasure of attending a public meeting in Volda. It was arranged by SV, but there were actually more KrFs there than SVs. At that meeting, we were quite a few of them saying that Sharon's policy cannot be accepted. So I'm a little disappointed in Lars Rise, who won't meet us saying that we can express stronger criticism of this. There's a difference between the occupying and the occupied. We're talking about the world's fourth-largest war power, and a population where most people are on the run. Does the Council share this view? So to Johannesburg and a little bit about "burden-charing" and this with Norwegian quota-free companies, i.e. CDM, the so-called green possibilities that we have there, which means that Norwegian quota-free companies are not going to be able to use credits like strains from plantases, coal-fired power plants or large hydropower projects in developing countries to meet their obligations in the first period. Does the Minister for Development support the view that one has to go in and critically assess what should be acceptable? Furthermore, these are a lot of questions, but when it comes to Johannesburg, of course, it's about having a deal with that with war and peace. What will Norway do in Johannesburg to focus on peace as a commitment to sustainable development and to the impact of war and military production on global environment and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e834	First to different versions of Christian People's Party Middle East policy. Well, the Middle East policy I'm talking about is the Middle East government policy. That's what we stand for, and what I said in my post, reflects the government's view. Nor is there any doubt that Norway has criticised the Israeli actions and demanded that they be terminated immediately. The withdrawal of Israeli forces from reoccupied areas, and there are reoccupied areas, should therefore be the answer to the representative’s questions. At the same time, we also place heavy emphasis on the Palestinians' own responsibility for the situation, nor should it be neglected. Then to Johannesburg. On the issue of green quota obligations, etc., I leave it to the Minister for the Environment, and concentrate on what is my responsibility, namely the preparation of Johannesburg with the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We agree with the concern expressed by many teams in relation to the preparations. We are now doing what we can actively together with like-minded countries to contribute to a most action-oriented and performance-oriented action plan, which Haga was also involved in. We are also actively working with international organisations and institutions to help us get work more and better in focus, and we are working on our own initiatives. It's about saving the process, in my opinion. As the situation is, it is difficult to bring peace and security into Johannesburg as its own themes. It is a very comprehensive and complicated agenda from before, with the environment and development, and the UN usually negotiates security, defence and disarmament in its own forums and not in this forum. I think it will be even more difficult to reach agreement and a more committed action plan and follow-up if we also bring in these kinds of issues. Now we have to focus on what we can do to ensure that we get the most offensive action plan possible. So it's difficult the situation at the moment, and we're now doing what we can through our international contacts to contribute to this. To the representative Jacobsen: National Agenda 21 is working with the Government. We'll start that after Johannesburg, and connect it to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e845	I want to give the Minister of Development an opportunity to comment further on the UN Conference on Sustainable Development, but with a slightly more general starting point than the representative Jacobsen took, because this is a conference that occupies many of us, and that should occupy us all. It would be an accident if this conference were to produce only paper and non-binding words. I understand that the Minister for Development is concerned with action plans. The most fundamental thing is that we actually get an action plan hammered out, that there will be verifiable objectives included in this action plan, and not least that there is also financial resources on the table, so that there is hope that a decision can actually be implemented. I would like to have a little more briefing on where the matter is in relation to the fact that this is going to be as concrete as I think that both the Minister for Development and I want it to be. So I would also like to hear more about what own initiatives are being taken by the Government. The Development Minister said that they had their own initiatives, and I would like to hear a little more about them. Finally, I would like to reiterate my wish to make a statement by the Prime Minister in relation to the preparation process and Norwegian objectives in the preparation process. It is not to be minimized by government councils who have important roles to play against the conference, but the theme is sustainable development, cross-sectoral, and I therefore find it natural that the Prime Minister makes that kind of statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e856	The representative Haga and I agree to try to achieve an action plan where there are verifiable objectives, where there are financial resources and where there are monitoring mechanisms for follow-up. The situation is that the preliminary draft in the last preparatory negotiations is far too extensive and too vague for it to represent what both Haga and I want. There is now a process in progress both in the UN Secretariat and with the President, Salim, in order to produce a document that can better fulfill what we want: an action plan. That work is speeding up now, but we have not yet received the President's draft. It's probably coming this week, and then we'll see how far you've come in the process. It is from South Africa, which is a host country, invited to a meeting in May – to which I have also been invited, and in which, after all, I am going to participate – where one should also look at how to progress in the process and help to make it as action-oriented as possible. So Norway is active here. As far as initiatives are concerned, I said in my reply that we are working on initiatives. This means that I cannot now explain to the Storting what initiatives, but that, together with other like-minded countries, we are now looking at different initiatives that may be important in relation to the objectives of Johannesburg. Sectors such as energy, water and sanitary, health, agriculture and food safety may be involved. When I mention these four sectors, it's because it's these four that are important and will be strongly focused. But we're now working on what we want to work with other like-minded countries. Not least, this will depend a little on where we manage to get to the action plan in these areas, whether we need to take our own initiatives beyond this. I will, of course, pass on the request that the Prime Minister come and explain to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e867	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e870	I would like to congratulate the Minister of Development and the Government on a broad disintegration in the distribution and poverty reduction plan. I think it's a pleasure that we are now across almost all of the parties in the Great Britain behind a broad development policy. It's as far as I can see, all of the pieces are non-receptive to the Progress Party, which has a different angle of incidence. There is a strength in the leadership position that Norway has internationally and in relation to these conferences that Norway is strongly involved in the preparation of. At the same time, it is clear that when there is so much agreement, it is also difficult to get a sufficiently wide and heavy opinion debate around the question. The Ministry has made price-early attempts around the 50th anniversary mark to create this debate. We have to admit that that's how far it has been, but we need it more fundamentally, because it's none of what we actually have, which is more important than the theme we're discussing today. That's what determines peace and war in the world, that's what determines how human beings will have it in the future. Then it might be tempting to look at what kind of made Norway the good country to live in as it really is, even if we want to do it even better. What was it that 200 years ago started this development in the country that has led us to where we are today? The representative Julie Christiansen was so far within it when it spelled the need for the construction of civil organizations in the former Soviet Union, in Russia. But I think what happened to the emergence of the people's movements was actually what was involved in changing Norway, and that also gave a resilient democracy. We got a solid layman movement that rebelled against an official church. We got a solid abstinence that took care of that we were drinking all over. We got a strong cooperative movement that was supposed to work for the farmers and others to get what they were supposed to do for their products. We got a work movement and a trades union movement that was supposed to end people having to hang around. I'm going to say that the social debate that led to this, and the schooling of building organizations, was fundamental to what happened in Norway. For this reason, my challenge to the Minister of Development and the Government is that one also takes that dimension into account – not by giving a dose of how we did it, but by bearing in mind that the voluntary organisations are important in the assistance we are going to do, because they may be more targeted than one can be through public systems. Maybe there may be others who also contributed significantly to just building civil organizations. I believe what can be with and build resilient democracy is that we – in one way – are partners in building that kind of organization. So a few reflections about co-operative countries. There is a great deal of support for what was being drawn up in the Council of State. I have some supplementary comments when it comes to Madagascar. The conclusion as per the date must be as it is. But at the same time, if the Dakar meeting can lead to this being taken seriously now when we have had a new count of votes showing that the new candidate actually won, it is important that Norway is bid. It is in a few African countries that Norway has the same type of weight and is being heard in the same way, and it is reasonable that Norway is dealing both with the development of democracy, with short-term emergency aid and also with long-term aid. There we also have brilliant organizations to cooperate with. When it comes to the Middle East, I would like to mark the posts of the representative Jacobsen. Clearly, Israel is asking for a heavy responsibility for what has happened in the last few months. At the same time, I'd like to know that SV once again was willing to talk loud about what the suicide bombs and this destabilization represent. I also think it's something we've heard very rarely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06.ana.ud749e883	Several have not asked for the word. We are now approaching the scheduled time for the morning meeting. The President therefore proposes that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 18 for continued treatment of the current map.
