ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e28	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e37	In the last fall of budgetary management, the Government Party and the Progress Party agreed to convert the Post and NSB from special law companies to limited liability companies. Inner. S. No 224 is the setting for the conversion of NSB BA and Posten Norge BA into a limited liability company. In other words, this is a follow-up to the principle decision that was made the last fall. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party voiced the last fall in budgetary management against this transformation. In notes, these three parties have pointed out that they are still negative to convert the Post and NSB into a limited liability company. The three parties believe that the special-law regime would better secure the national objectives that these companies have. The government has proposed that there should be less political governance and responsibility, and this may cause concern, especially for the districts. In particular, it would be unfortunate if only purely economic conditions were to be established. But the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party find that the decision on transformation has been taken, and take note of this. The entire Committee considers that both the NSB and the Post remain at 100 pst. owned by the State. Thus, if necessary, the State which still has the option to intervene with the company. Apart from the Progress Party, the entire Committee states that it should be the sectoral policy objectives and not the business activities which are the main basis for the state’s ownership interests in the NSB and the Post. Just the sectoral policy objectives and the important societal tasks for the two companies make it very important that these two companies continue to be 100 psts. owned by the State. I am also pleased that the entire Committee, apart from the Progress Party, is pleased that the State should be the sole owner and that the transformation should involve the continuation of the work already in progress. As a special law company, annual Section 10 messages from Posten and NSB have been submitted. Every two weeks these § 10 messages have formed the basis for messages to the Stortinget about the company's operations. The Storting announcements have provided the Stortinget with information about the companies, and have allowed Stortinget to give feedback on developments. I am therefore satisfied that the Government proposes that the arrangement with Section 10 message and ownership message should continue. But the government adds some changes to the big messages, especially for the Post. Among other things, there is a proposal to remove the content of the rural profile and the development of the postal sector and prices. In the proposition, the removal of these two areas from the Storing Communication is defended by the concession to ensure a nation-wide postal service and therefore will necessarily be present throughout the country with its services. However, the fact that the company is present throughout the country does not in itself guarantee that the regional profile and the price and postage trends are good and equivalent throughout the country. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have therefore disagreed with the change that the Government is making in the big news. The post’s regional profile and post and price development are decisive in view of the Post as an actor to solve important societal tasks throughout the country. The post has been through major reorganisations both within the organisation and not least in relation to customers following the transformation into a special law company. There may be reason to ask questions about whether the Post is always satisfying for customers. There are many individuals and municipalities who think that some of the solutions the Post offers weaken the services in the Postnet. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party believe that when Posten Norge BA is to be converted into a limited liability company, it is necessary to go through the situation. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have also pointed out that, contrary to the Government's proposal, these parties want to keep up with the arrangement of General Assembly as today. The same game also wants there to be a requirement for both the Post and NSB that important issues and issues about the separation of basic services of a certain size should be submitted to the Stortinget. In the proposition, the basis for the establishment of the opening balance sheet for both the NSB and the Post has been taken into account. For the NSB, the Committee does not have any objections to the Government's orientation. In contrast, when it comes to the Post, a plurality in the Committee, all with the exception of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, means that the capital must be increased more than the Government adds. This is also the conclusion of the consultancy companies that have carried out a valuation. The majority, therefore, raise the capital by DKK 1.66 billion, and not NOK 0.6 billion, as the Government has suggested. In my view, it is important that the Post is given economic conditions that enabled the company to develop the business further. The post office must be able to use and build on the competence of the company. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e68	The representative Jorunn Ringstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e71	I would first like to join all the case spokesperson said. In this case, the Centre Party, SV and the Labour Party are in charge of all the comments. In one comment, we have several figures, and in proposals for decisions we have several figures together with the Progress Party. The Bondevik government moves Norway to the right: more and more must be privatised, put out of competition or converted into a limited liability company. That's how Bondevik and his government will let market forces dominate most of it. Market forces can have a positive effect by leading to competition between different actors. But market forces take no account of society. Market forces do not provide equivalent services at the same price across the country, nor do they take into account the fact that costs are much higher in District Norway – to name a few. Then the Prime Minister will say that there is to be a social dimension in the concession terms. It is possible, but these conditions vary greatly, and as long as they are to be implemented by a liberalist government, we in the Labour Party are concerned. At the same time as the government party and the Progress Party just before Christmas, almost above the table, were agreed to turn many of the state transport companies into limited liability companies, the same parties went against ruling the NRK, taking into account important social conditions. We in the Workers' Party are concerned about developments, and I allowed myself to remind the Christian People's Party that they are on a dangerous path when they have now changed sides to these questions. When we deal with the so-called Section 10 messages for these companies in Stortinget as late as last year, it was a plurality, including the Christian People's Party, to pass these companies on as a special law company. But now it seems that the Christian People's Party has come into bad company. The Labour Party took a strong view of this in the context of budget management. I'm not going to repeat everything we said there, just remember that we – and here we are also together with the SV and the Center Party – are afraid that in the future there will be more and more attention to money and less and less attention to society. The uroa we know is reinforced by at least two conditions: First of all, we are concerned because the Government is cooperating with the Progress Party on these questions - a party that is not concerned about the portotarisms that vary across the country and that, together with the Right, wants to privatise large parts of the transport sector, and that is now getting a shorter way to get to it. Secondly, we are concerned because the Government has a Minister of Transport who wants less management of the sectors both for the state that owns and for the Storting. This is supported by a number in Stortinget. They will leave more control to the board of directors of individual companies, and they will reduce the information, especially to Stortinget. Minority, once again the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, on the other hand, will that the arrangement of a general meeting should continue as in the Posten's profile in district zamanhäng and postage/price developments in Posten are still to be included in Section 10 of the Notice that important matters and matters relating to the separation of basic services over a certain size should still be submitted to Stortinget that parts of the company cannot be sold without having been dealt with in the Stortinget In addition, the minority believes that we should be given a separate briefing on the Post relative to the concession terms, requirements in the governing law and the work environment law, and on the Stortinget's objective of equivalent services throughout Norway after the reorganisation. The majority don't want this review. It may be that people from the district have stopped turning to the government party on such questions, but at least we are constantly asking questions about this. In the last round, the Post made suggestions to drop the last post office in my municipality of residence, Klepp. This office provides services to a densely populated centre with 5,000 to 6,000 inhabitants. I had not thought in my wildest imagination that this could happen. I took that up in a meeting with the apartment in the post office. Whether it was that protest and/or the protest locally, etc. from the right-wing spokesman in the municipality, who made the decision, I don't know. The result was that the office was maintained – and thank you for that. But this proposal, and several others that we've been familiar with, among other things. In Vinje municipality, we need a review. Although the majority vote against this today, I hope that the Council of State respects a minority so much that it gives us the information we are asking for. Many of us have been upset by the way they added the ground in Braathens is handled after the SAS acquisition. Here you can circumvent the code of practice in the Work Environment Act in several ways. We are also upset when we hear that people with a long service must start at the bottom after new companies have taken over the routes by offer. I recently talked to a 60-year-old with a 40-year-old seniority who could tell me that he was in the new company with zero seniority, and that he felt very insecure in his new company – he wanted to be the first to leave. Pretty heartbreaking, isn't it? We're going to come back to this. But it has a context: more market, less community and less concern for them. The self-process, or a missing one, attached to the decision on the conversion of NSB and the Post to AS was a clear example of how it should not be done. Fortunately, it does not make any significant changes for them to be added to the Posten and NSB upon transition from a special law company to a limited liability company. Not in this game. We in the Workers' Party expect the state to behave as an asset and decent owner both when it applies to collective supply to those who need it in the districts, when it applies to postage tariffs regardless of distance or edge, and when it applies to those added to the Post and NSB. In the case of equity, the Workers' Party has no comments in relation to the NSB. But when it's about the Post, on the other hand, there's a number that wants to go much further than the Government when it comes to new money. The government's billion is equal to zero as it includes 400 million. kr to be converted from the loan and select 300 million. kr to cover the waiting wage. Add us to the exchange, there will be little left to some offensive bet. But the majority of people today make a decision of 2 billion kroner. This plurality is the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. With such an increase in equity, it is possible for the Post to build on their competence and to develop new business. We in the Labour Party are particularly pleased with this decision. Initially, together with the SV and the Center Party, we wished to meet the Poster's request for an increase of SEK 2.4 billion. The post has been in a tough transition time, and it is absolutely necessary to facilitate new development and stimulate creativity and optimism. We would have done that with an increase in equity of NOK 2.4 billion, but I also expect to do that with the decision we are making today. This will be a later talk from the Workers' Party. Finally to the Christian People's Party: it's allowed to turn in this accelerating right turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e121	The formation of public limited liability companies in the NSB and the Post is a result of natural development, both in these companies and in the market in which they are to operate. It is a milestone that the majority asked for in this year's budgetary position. But the change does not involve any drama about today's organisation with limited responsibilities. Thus, the bankruptcy option will be the same as before, despite the fact that the minority produces it differently. No changes are being made to the staff allocation ratios. Nor does the proposition rock state ownership. In terms of social, regional and postal tasks, this has been well taken care of through Posten's concession terms and the state purchase of postal services. In addition, we get annual reports through the budget proposals, as we know. The item maritime has indicated its need for flexibility in view of future restructuring processes. Social obligations relating to the Posten monopoly will require some restructuring issues to be submitted to the Stortinget. The case we're dealing with here doesn't change this. Nevertheless, the proposal contains decorations of statutory requirements for file submissions to the General Assembly, the Council of State. The Council of State must otherwise make a maritime assessment of the issues that need to be addressed to the Storting. The size will be able to carry out its own role by dealing with the self-declaration, which will continue to come to Stortinget every two years. The equity of the new limited liability companies is allocated significant space in the proposition. At this point, the parties to the government and the position are overruled by the majority in respect of the capital injection of the Item. It appears from the consultant's report that the Post would be strong in the loan market after the consultants' proposal for equity, with a borrowing of SEK 1.5 billion in addition to what is planned. Yes, sail in this case the equity will exceed 30 pst. One here recalls that the Post calculated an investment need for the period 2001-2003 of DKK 13.7 billion. Strategic investment is including estimated at DKK 7.4 billion. A highly liberal state capital asset can increase Posten's aggressiveness in the buying-in market, and it surprises us that the Progress Party will send an AS-reformed state company into the buying-in market with as many as a quarter of its claws as the majority here equips the company with. After an overall assessment, the government has decided to add a total of NOK 1 billion to the Item at this time. So to the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, which has been promoted in the hall now just at Jorunn Ringstad. With regard to the content of the proposal in relation to concession terms and to the main objective of equivalent services throughout Norway, there are reliable things that could have been sent over and also received consent. However, the proposal also refers to the administrative law, which has no special place either in the form of the company being abandoned or in the form of the company to be incorporated. The Working Environment Act has a general supervisory function in this community, so that this appears more like an extraordinary, excessive health check to change, if possible, the prescription of the project, so it will not get our approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e134	The transformation of the NSB and the Post into an AS is positive for the companies, and will provide more professional governance and opportunities for the companies. There is also a result of the budgetary settlement of the harvest between the Advance Party and the Government Parties. We believe that the future postal company must be given conditions of competition and opportunities to establish itself in a market with many and very diverse competitors. We believe that the equity of the Item must be increased by more than the Government adds. This is also the conclusion of the consultancy companies DnB/PwC, which have carried out a valuation. We have noticed that the Post Norway wants the addition of new equity in addition to what the Government has proposed. Therefore, the Progress Party together will add SEK 2.06 billion in equity, distributed at DKK 0.4 billion in the conversion of subordinated loans, DKK 0.16 billion as compensation for extraordinary dividends for 2001 and DKK 1.5 billion as new equity. It is SEK 1.06 billion more than the proposal in St.prp. No Sixty-two. With such an injection of new equity, we assume that the company itself covers the liabilities with new waiting wages. This means that it is necessary to grant NOK 1.66 billion in equity, and not NOK 0.6 billion as proposed in the proposal. In order for the company to establish itself as an effective company, the equity situation must be at a level that does not weaken the company, in order to impair its value and competence. In other words, there is no objective to put the postal company into competition with too little equity. This will ultimately affect the company. It's equally wrong to do the opposite. If equity becomes too high, we establish a company that, because of high equity, can be expanding in competition with others and make purchases of competitors, which we don't want. It would therefore be wrong to use state capital to compete with other actors. The Progress Party has therefore been at a crossroads between the Government's proposal, which, in our view, would have weakened the competitiveness of the Post as AS, and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's main wish was to increase equity by NOK 2.4 billion. In this way, it seems that the proposals of the Progress Party will have a majority, and I am pleased about that. Finally, the Progress Party believes that the further path for the company is that it should be quoted so that the company can raise new capital if necessary and that a government sale can be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e149	When Stortinget now deals with the matter of transforming the Post and NSB BA into AS, the principle decision is already taken. This was done in connection with the State budget, when it was decided that both the Post and the NSB as well as the Swedish Aviation Agency, the State Road Administration and the Swedish Coast Guard Agency would become AS. For Posten and NSB, the decision was taken without prior impact assessment. I will not begin a rematch, but I would like to repeat the criticism of the way this decision was taken. The employees were not informed, the decision was presented in the NRC, the social consequences were not investigated. It is an undisputed fact that transition from BA to AS is an additional exemption from popular governance. The item now becomes an independent legal entity, and the profitability criteria will play an even greater role than the social obligations. We're talking here about part of the national infrastructure. Why wouldn't the bulk of the population take a closer look at the consequences of these changes? Why wouldn't the majority look at how the Post Release has worked at the time the Post has been BA? For example, do we have: the power to maintain a nationwide qualitatively good service provision throughout the country. Have we power it in the districts, and do we have the power to maintain the service at an equal price? These are questions that should have been addressed in a critical way before an elected representative went to further exemption. When NSB BA is now transformed into AS, reference is made to the competitive situation and the need to ensure the same conditions for NSB as its competitors. One might get the impression that the majority believe that this is the solution to the challenges we face nationally in terms of the future railway. It's in case of error. If the railway is to have a future as a passenger and freight transport operator in competition with road transport, the railway network – read the Railway Agency – needs to be upgraded to a degree and a pace that goes much beyond the bulk of GDP so far as is willing to go. Turning into AS doesn't solve any of these central challenges for the railway. It is clear from the case that the Ministry of Transport is negotiating a framework agreement with the NSB for 2003-2005. A new form of contract is being developed with a view to the establishment of quality contracts. This is an important part of the political governance of the NSB in the future. I am not going to go into defining how such contracts should be designed, but I would like to stress that the Storting should be able to provide some clear guidance on how the framework agreement with the NSB should be designed. This applies both to the place where trains are to be driven, how often, the quality of the wagon equipment, the comfort of the customers and the price the public has to pay. Whether or not to do so in the context of § 10 plans, where the Stortinget is to provide information every two years on the activities of the companies, or otherwise, it will initially be up to the Government to find out, but this should at least be possible for the Storinget to do so. As regards the framework conditions for conversion to AS, I refer to the majority position of the Committee that the assets of NSA BA are transferred in their entirety and that equity is strengthened by 500 million. kr. There is reason to stress that the Post — the postal service — is one of the carriers of the infrastructure in this country. A nationwide postal network is an important prerequisite for maintaining a decentralised settlement. It is therefore essential that the future organisational solutions of the Post should not weaken the supply of the rural population. The main objective of the size of equivalent services across the country is fixed, and the possibility of the Post in the future being able to provide equivalent services across the country and that the Post should have an economic power to develop is central to the determination of equity. We believe that the Government's proposal will not give the Post that opportunity. The proposal of 1 billion is below that assessed by the consultant companies DnB/PwC, and therefore SV, together with the Workers' Party, has chosen to propose that equity should primarily be NOK 2.4 billion. It would have given the Post the strength and power it should have in the future. The Progress Party has proposed a total of DKK 2 billion, and of course we support this subsidisingly. It will be the second best solution, but far better than what is proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e164	It is important in this case to establish some main points which are constantly being questioned about: The government proposes that the NSB and the Post should be a limited liability company of 100 pst. The conversion of NSB BA and Posten Norge BA into a limited liability company does not lead to any change in the possibility of going bankrupt. The fact that the Workers' Party, SV and the Zenterpartie are opposed to the transformation of the NSB and Posten into a limited liability company is a well-known case, which is repeated on a continuous basis, also now in this debate. But when the same parties claim in the preamble that NSB and Posten best achieve their objectives by being special law companies, especially as regards the needs of the districts, this is a claim that is difficult to understand, especially when one knows that the state through the purchase of services has the objective of securing services related to the NSB and Posten out in the districts. In a joint comment: ‘The Committee has further noted that the State which owns the right to intervene with the company, if necessary, will not be changed as a result of the transformation.’ This in itself should be a certainty. It should therefore be noted that if the Storting purchase of services in the NSB and the Post is not satisfied, there is a full opportunity to intervene in the services offered by the companies, thereby ensuring the delivery of postal and transport services under contracts concluded. Christian People's Party and Right support the Government's arrangements related to the Section 10 plans and ownership messages for the NSB and the Post. We believe that taking into account the needs of Posten and NSB for greater flexibility and faster decision-making processes, it is necessary to alleviate the general requirement for the submission of individual cases to Stortinget. We believe that it should be the responsibility of the Council of State to assess which issues should be submitted to the Storting at all times. Furthermore, we believe that the transformation for which it is now being organised does not result in any change in the conditions of addition of the employees. In this context, an overall committee has noted that the NSB and Posten have assessed the relationship with the State Pension Fund and also looked at alternative solutions. In this context, we believe that the future pension agreements of companies must be carried out in close cooperation with employees. An opening balance sheet to be annexed to the instrument of incorporation shall be drawn up for the formation of the companies. It is proposed that the NSB be allocated 500 million. NOK in new equity, and the equity of the Item is proposed to be increased by NOK 1 billion in connection with the conversion into a limited liability company. An overall committee agrees with the proposal to strengthen the equity of the NSB by 500 million. kr. As far as the Post is concerned, there are various suggestions in the vote. In this respect, I support the minority proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Right that the Post Norway AS receives an increase in equity of 600 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e196	Take up the proposal to which he himself referred, since Mr. Holten. Hoddevik didn't?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e199	Then I'll deal with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e205	Odd Holten has taken up the suggestion that he was asked to take up!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e208	The examination of this matter again shows me the importance of two letters for the dividing lines of Norwegian policy: the letters AS. While the government parties and the Progress Party see this as an appropriate form of organisation and responsibility for state activities, the letters are clearly still, in many respects, almost a red cloth for the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, especially when the Workers' Party is in opposition, even in those cases where in reality only the letters in the back are in fact the ones that separate the companies from being limited companies, as is currently the case with NSB BA and Posten Norge BA. The NSB and the Post are well-known in the markets in which the companies are to compete; the form of the organisation should show that these are companies operating according to commercial principles by a board responsible for the company's operation and economy. Many have been unsure whether today’s BA form implies this. Over the last few years – also by the Workers' Party – the NSB and the Post have been stressed that within the limits of the concession and government purchase, the NSB and the Post have to operate commercially. It has been stressed that the Management Board has a separate responsibility to assess the measures necessary to ensure the competitiveness and economy of the company, including the internal organisation, development of the service provision and, where appropriate, alliances, procurement, etc. In my opinion, the bonds placed on the companies today are completely independent of whether the NSB and the Post are special-law companies or limited-liability companies, for example. in the case of referrals to the General Assembly/Minister for Transport or the Stortinget. This also applies to the special rights of employees in respect of seniority and waiting pay. These are rights which there is a broad political agreement to continue for the limited liability companies for the transitional period already laid down until 1 January 2005. There is no doubt that it is the sectoral policy objectives and not the business operation that is the main basis for the country’s ownership of the NSB and the Item. However, it is primarily through the concession and purchase arrangements that we currently ensure a comprehensive offer of postal services and a satisfactory collective offer by train. The exercise of ownership in this type of case should only be used where other instruments are lacking. It is the Post and Telecommunications Authority that, following the current regulatory regime, assesses whether the Post fulfils its social obligations after the concession. The supervision has the Posten’s conversion of the despatch network in relation to the concession requirements for assessment. As far as I am aware, the supervision has not yet found a basis for breach of the concession at this point, but the assessments have not yet been completed. Lifting individual items such as: the postal service of individual municipalities up to the Overtest Survey as suggested by the minority in its observations will be to bring the regulatory mechanisms back to our place some years ago. Neither the customers, the Post nor the authorities will be earned. The Post Office and the Post and Telecommunications Authority must be held responsible here. Reporting to the Storting on the Post’s compliance with the concession requirements will be given in an appropriate manner. When this is said, I would like to stress that both I, who exercise the state ownership of the company, and not least the company itself, are concerned that customers throughout the country will be satisfied with their needs for postal and communication services, whether they are private customers, businesses or the public. It also applies to services that go far beyond the minimum concession set. Only in this way will the Post be competitive in the future. Although the companies are transformed into limited liability companies, we do not lose control with them. The provisions of the Statutes shall continue to ensure that we are kept informed of important and fundamental issues in the NSB and the Post, and above all matters which affect the ability of companies to fulfil their social tasks or which are expected to have a major impact on the company or society in general. Such major things will of course also have to be presented to the Stortinget. The annual business plans of the companies will also ensure information on what is happening in the companies, and these will form the basis for announcements to the Stortinge every two years. These will give the Storting a good opportunity to assess and comment on the strategies of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e230	There was a question the Council of State did not comment on in her post, which she will have the opportunity to do. This concerns Posten's questions based on its strategy plans to raise NOK 2.4 billion in new, fresh equity in addition to this 400 million loan. kr. The Ministry has asked DnB Markets and PricewaterhouseCoopers to assess this, and the consultants agree that the Post needs this money, but suggest that the Post can live with a lower equity share – and therefore can borrow more – and propose half of the amount of the Post requested by the State. Since this assessment has been carried out, the Government has raped 300 million. NOK in extra dividends from last year, and the post is charged additional waiting wage costs of about the same amount. Nevertheless, the government's conclusion is that the Post will only receive 600 million. kr, half of the consultants recommend fresh new equity. In view of the extra dividends and waiting wages, the Post actually does not get any of its owners for the investments they need. Now the Ministry of Transport has not asked questions about the need for the investments Posten is planning, but points out that there is such a risk to some of the investments that the Government will not put up with that money – the risk that banks will take. It's kind of special. And so the Ministry of Transport concludes that they still want to limit the amount of equity in relation to the amount they spend, and they're proposing 600 million. NOK plus conversion of the loan of SEK 400 million. kr. And the NOK 10,000 question is: what is the government's reason for a desire to limit the equity injection exactly to the sum of the amount it took from the company in extra dividends last year, and the waiting wage obligations it imposes? After all, the Post receives the equity they need, combined with reduced claims on equity, but is the Government really behind the Post's investment plans when it doesn't want to invest its money on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e237	The President will state that mentioning the Government’s dispositions as having ‘raped’ money is hardly parliamentary and should be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e240	Some of the fate of a government council from the Left is to get a little trouble with speaking time, so I never managed to get to the point that I was now asked about. But it is true that the Government proposed to increase Post's equity by NOK 1 billion. I note that the bulk of the population will significantly increase the equity of the Post relative to the Government's proposal, and take note of this. The reason why the Government promoted the proposal for a limited equity injection in the context of conversion into a limited liability company was that, on the basis of an overall assessment of the company’s strategies and investment proposals, it paid particular attention to the risks associated with some of the strategic investments – that they are significant and that overall the gain may be too uncertain to allow the entry of a larger amount into new equity. The government also wanted to assess more closely the Posten’s strategies to strengthen core activities. So, given that the majority in the Grand Duchy is in favour of an increase in equity in line with the recommendations of the consultants, including compensation for increased dividends for 2001 and the coverage of purchase costs, as I see it, it will no longer be relevant with such a new concrete assessment by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e248	It is that speaking time is allocated according to the size of the parties, but the president will, for his part, pronounce that if the other government parties want it, and it is necessary for the reputation and reputation of the government, it is appropriate to borrow time from those parties. But that's what the parties decide between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e251	It's going to be wrong no matter what finger you cut on. If you use too little equity, as the government has suggested, you weaken the company's ability to compete with other companies. And there's no point in getting out of a company that you know is going to make it bad because they have an equity situation that's not good. Of course, it's also equally wrong to do the opposite, to give too much money to a company. This enables them to pursue an aggressive purchasing policy, buy out competitors, and finally have eliminated a monopoly. Now it is the case that a report has been prepared from DnB Markets/PricewaterhouseCoopers that has concluded on the need for equity. And I think it's amazing that the Ministry of Transport and this consulting company are far from each other in relation to the conclusion. My question is therefore: how can it be done so significantly in the conclusion that approx. One billion dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e258	The government presented this proposal on the basis that we thought it was the right level of equity now. For our own part, we also want to go on with a proper review of the strategies that the Posten has. And it's never that it's not allowed to make a new round of equity. So it has been historically throughout all years, and this possibility will also be there for the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e263	The councils began by saying that she had the impression that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre had a fear of the two letters called AS, and that they were in principle opposed or very skeptical to the AS form in general. That's not the case. There are very many areas of both transport and transport that are suitable for being organised in the form of a limited liability company. But in terms of infrastructure, i.e. what has been built here over generations – roads, quays, ports, and in other areas hospitals and schools – we are of the opinion that it is not suitable for the form of a limited liability company. It is not appropriate for commercial operations to be the main objective of the business. So here we have a different political view. And we have to live with that. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. There was something quite different. And that's what's going on in NSB's assets, which is now going into the new AS. In this context, I would like to ask you about the relationship with the railway stations. In the past, the Committee has been briefed on the preparation of the transfer of railway stations to the Railway Agency and the development by the Railway Agency of them into so-called "cloud stations", i.e. hubs for travellers. That's an important question. So I would like to ask the Council of State whether the railway stations will be transferred to the railway station before the transformation into AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e270	With regard to the principles relating to the way of operating either infrastructure or services of different kinds, we can probably have a long political debate on that. But what I think we agree on is that we need to find good, effective solutions that make most people feel that they get the best services back for their money. As regards the assets of the NSB, the Ministry is working on this transfer, and as is said here, it is an important point, also in relation to the function that those stations should have. So I'm going to come back to how this limit rise is going to be, and where the different assets will be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e278	The government has proposed some changes to the content of the Post page which will be submitted to the Storing for further years. The regional profile and the development of postal services and prices should not be included because – as it is called in the proposition – the company must be required by the concession to ensure a nationwide postal service. But this, in my view, is a very bad explanation for the omission. The Storing Communication provides the Stortinget with information on the Post Office's activities, developments in the previous planning period and challenges, strategies and plans for the future. Based on the big picture, the Storting can provide feedback on developments, even in relation to the societal tasks, and whether they are satisfactory. In the messages we have received, there has always been a lot of talk about the regional profile and about postage and price developments, and this has our central theme in the Committee's comments. The concession to which it refers is not a document presented to Stortinget, which allows Storting to make comments. And as far as I know, it has not previously been suggested to omit the regional profile and the postage and price developments. Why is it so important for this government to take these two areas out of the Storing Message when it has never been a theme before?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e287	We have concession in this area to use it as an active tool for people around the country to be guaranteed good services. Then I mean all around the country. It is important that this is well-managed. We have concession, and we can buy services from the Post. So that's what's going to be the bottom line. The concession has been granted. The post shall follow this up and the Post and Telecommunications Authority shall have a supervisory function in relation to the proper follow-up of that concession. I think that's the best way to take care of those aspects. I don't see it as appropriate that we come back to the point where, here, at Stortinget, we are going to discuss whether a post office in Building A is going to be shut down, or whether a post office in Building B is going to be shut down. This is not where we can run the best policy in this area. Then I also think it is worrying whether it should be so that it is that you have e.g. strong political interests in a rural area, which allows you to keep the post office or postal services there, while in another rural area you don't get it because you don't have the same resources. I think it's absolutely fundamental that we have a concession that gives commitments to our whole country, that we should have good services across the country, and that it's not a bit random who has the opportunity to get there in the right environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e294	To the fact that AS is a red cloth for us: it's not, but we're concerned that there's a lot of social concern in this area, and some times there's organization in a corporation as opposed to socializing. That's why we don't think it's a good form of organization here. We've come a little bit further, even though we're new in this committee, than we're provoked by the letters. So if the government doesn't have a better argument than trying to make a rhetoric out of it, it has to have a bad case. So to the proposal that's made. I understand it is perceived in the worst possible way. What's our main goal here is to make sure that the concession terms are held. When I used the example of Klepp, and others used the example of Vinje, there are only examples of places where there are claims that the concession terms are broken. It is not for us to clean up in Vinje or Klepp, but we should make sure that there is an example of a breach of concessional conditions or a tendency to break concessional conditions. That's what we're after. If the Council of State can promise us that it will come back with information about violations of the concession terms, whether there are equivalent services in Norway as a whole, and if that is not the case, what will it do to secure it in the future, we would like to make this proposal for a transmission proposal. Otherwise, I'd like to give the council the tip of getting some time from the government party in Stortinget. That's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e306	Now I don't see how an AS meets social conditions worse than a BA, if I understood the representative correctly. Otherwise I can promise that there will be information about the assessment by the Post and Telecommunications Authority of the extent to which the concession obligation has been fulfilled or not. This is of great political importance to me, and I hope for the representatives of the Committee on Transport or the Stortinget for the rest. Because this is where the policy is run by us. If that's how we see that there's a gap, then there's reason for us to grab hold of individual things. That's where I think we have a common cause. I see it as very positive that we can use the supervision in this case and get a solid review of whether the state is the way we want it to be, or whether there is reason to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e313	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e316	The members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party consider that the transformation of the NSB and the Post into a limited liability company does not lead to changes in the possibility of bankruptcy. Also, as a limited liability company, the NSB and Post may go bankrupt, as the representative Sverre J. Hoddevik found to point out in his statement. When these members also support the Government's proposal that the Post Norway should receive only 600 million. NOK 400 million in new equity in addition to the conversion of the subordinated loan. kr, this is a timely note. The working party opposed the conversion of the Post and NSB into a limited liability company. But once this is adopted, we believe that there are good reasons to make sure that the companies are best able to meet their tasks in a fast-changing reality. In particular, the Post is facing major changes in its employment opportunities. Customers change habits. Last year the number of mails fell for the first time, and the decline continues. In a few years' time, the last remains of Posten's monopoly on lighter letters are gone, and the change that the company has undergone and is in is just a start to a life where conversion and customer orientation become part of everyday life. The management and the board of directors of the post have put in place a strategy to meet this which requires quite substantial investment. And that's when they ask for NOK 2.4 billion in new equity. The government has, as I mentioned in my reply to the Council of State, asked DnB Markets/PricewaterhouseCoopers to consider the requirement, and they say two things: they point out that some of the investments the Post intends to make are not without risk, which is rarely such investments. The second is that the company can borrow more than they themselves add up, if the owners accept a slightly lower equity share. But the government is adding up to limit the supply to 600 million. kr in new, fresh equity, half of the consultants recommend, and a quarter of what the company asks for. And they do this without any other reason than that part of this is risky. With $300 million. kr in extra dividends – which were taken in a completely legal and regulatory manner – and the waiting pay obligations are therefore not a strange contribution that the owners wanted to make in order to equip the Post for the competition they face and which is getting stronger. Now the council said in its reply to my reply that she had intended to take a new review of this. But it's hard to understand why you had to wait with that review. This is basically good right-wing policy – no willingness to invest in anything owned by the state, although this is a more than 350-year-old business that every person in this country uses, and depends on. It is ideology that overrides what is also economically reasonable. For it is precisely the Post Office's commitment to developing its core business through subsidiaries such as Ergo Group, which has given over 30 pst. growth in the value of the item in the last few years. That should make right-hearts too happy. And if there were to be – although it has been assured of the opposite here today – some in the government who in their quiet mind think that in some time they can also get other owners into the Post, and thus reduce the state's ownership, then it could be thought that they think as follows: Let's now starve this company for a while, so that the need for new equity becomes so strong that this possibility opens up. But also in such a context, this becomes a strange reasoning. Because I would think that private investors would rather get into a growing company than in the company that the Post itself warns against if it does not get enough equity to develop, namely an old-fashioned post office that needs to keep cutting costs to keep pace with the fact that we send fewer and fewer letters with envelopes and stamps and increasingly rare people need to go to the post office. I believe that both the Post Norway and, not least, most people around this country should be happy that the majority here in the Chamber look at this differently from what the Government and Government parties do, and add to the Post an equity that will enable the plans that have been made to be implemented and that will enable the challenges facing the company to be met. What the Post has been through, the employees have set up in a way that is rare to see, and also the employees deserve the handshake that the decision this evening will be made. I also believe that the general meeting of the company inside can take a little time to enjoy it when the vote is over tonight, and that she will not take the new assessment after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e346	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e349	I am pleased that the Council of State says that violations of concessional conditions are policy and must be treated as such. I assume that the Council of State has the same assessments of this with equivalent services, which is a primary objective. With that understanding, and that we get information back to Stortinget, I will, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, make proposal No. 2nd turn to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e354	I just want to stress what Geir-Ketil Hansen brought up, about ownership of railway stations and terminals, hub. It is very important in relation to future competition on the track. It would be unsustainable if one of the competitors were to own the station. Since this is not mentioned in the proposition, I have assumed, as a starting point, that the Government will come back to this as a matter of its own. Because that's an important thing. I will find it most natural that the railway stations, which are clearly part of the railway infrastructure, are owned by someone other than those operating the transport network. It should therefore be an owner who does not operate on the network. The railway station is one such actor. In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party, the Progress Party was given the power to open up competition in passenger transport. Hopefully this will lead to better service – more concretely perhaps lower prices. But it's totally dependent on there's not one owner of the railway stations. I just want to make sure that this comes back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, and ask the Council of State to confirm or cancel it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e359	Does the Council of State want the word? - It's not the Council of State now. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3039]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e375	The Stortinget would then be ready to go to the vote on the matter on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e382	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Synnøve Konglevoll on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 3–5, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the concepts of wild-field areas and non-interventional areas – as used by the Directorate for Nature Management – are appropriate as they are being used today.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop, in cooperation with the organisations in the primary industries, a strategy to reduce the level of conflict in the natural management.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a clear mandate for the work on watercourse protection. The term of office must be precise in relation to what is desired in terms of protection and the activities on which restrictions need not be imposed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e424	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks whether it is appropriate to place the most important environmental legislation in its own environmental law.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The budget for 2003 requires the Government to present a stepping-up plan for the development of competences, monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e460	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that St.meld. [[1994-1995]] No 40 shall be followed up in such a way that properties where there has been a high degree of conflict between landowners and authorities in view of the protection of the forests are removed from the protection plan and thus the proposed protective interventions are not implemented.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:32 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e481	President! I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e488	Then the votes were corrected to 88 votes in favour and 17 votes in favour. The Committee's position is thus favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e495	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that the economic losses incurred by landowners in the event of restrictions of availability resulting from the protection of national parks and/or landscape protected areas are replaced in accordance with the same principles as those of nature reserve.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e534	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Thore A. Nistad on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The measures mentioned at E39 in West Agder, cf. St. pp. [[2001-2002]] No 60
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e558	The proposal of the Workers' Party is then put to the vote: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the start-up grant for the expansion of Stavanger Airport Sola in 2003’.» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e592	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e623	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Odd Holten on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Jorunn Ringstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party is included in the vote, while the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are distributed in the Chamber. The President has been made aware that the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘The Government is invited to provide information on the Post in relation to the concession terms, the administrative requirements and the labour environment law in the context of the 2003 budget. Furthermore, the main objective of the Storting on equivalent services throughout Norway is to reorganise.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e726	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1371Entry Norway AS90Capital granted by 600000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-2.ana.ud1854e830	There is no record.
