ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e64	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e69	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e74	Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e88	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 94]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e104	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 94]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e120	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e127	Ot. pp. No 89 for 2001–2002 concerns the non-discrimination of beer and other beverages with alcoholic strength by volume below 4.76 %. The case was brought by the Government after the EFTA Court had decided that Norway had not complied with its obligations under the EEA Agreement and that it was ordered to apply without delay for the non-discrimination of all alcoholic beverages of the same volume. The Court of Justice does not rule on the way in which equal treatment is to be carried out, but the Committee recommends that a corresponding rule apply to all types of alcoholic beverages of the same volume. For the Christian People's Party, this is in every way a negative case, and there is good reason to fear that this judgment represents one of the most important steps of alcohol policy in Norway, in terms of both increased turnover and increased use of alcohol, especially among younger users. It's very unfortunate. And there is no reason for the Christian People's Party, which has been an EEA party, to refuse that this is a side of the matter that we are not particularly pleased with. For the Christian People's Party, a part of the elements adopted today are solutions that we will come back to in the review of alcohol laws. The government has announced that it will have a full review of the alcohol laws, and it will look at any measures in the wake of the opening of the hall of Brussels in the shops. In the drug policy action plan, the Government points out that price and access are two particularly important factors in the transposition of alcohol. In the context of this alert review, it is important for the Christian People's Party to take a thorough analysis without pre-commitment, both in terms of fees, age limits, mode of sale and other possible trade delimitation and regulatory measures, and to discuss them on the basis of one's research and knowledge. I want to emphasize again that we won't draw conclusions at this point in time, because we have often experienced in alcohol debates being standing alone because some people think we have a special point of view. We now appeal to everyone to agree to see if there are measures of the kind that I have mentioned, or others, that may help to limit the damage that I think most people fear we will get from this. The minority has a proposal to ask the Government to take measures to limit turnover. For the government party, it's unnatural to say that, because the government has already warned that it will have such a review. They mention a part about it in the setting. I feel that the Government is very busy with this. I don't register the great enthusiasm at all from her to present this matter, but it's something that you're charged with. Let me also mention that this can be a challenge that local authorities can actively follow up. In many municipalities there are discussions about whether to create a municipal beer monopoly. This fact that the rush comes out to the shops, I would like to encourage our people and others to use it as a basis for such a discussion. Then you can have a non-discrimination by bringing all of this into municipal beer monopoly. It is also the case that the shops are not required to take the shower in their hall. From the commercial industry, it's actually a warning that they're very remarkable about the danger that's lying in the cold water of this. They are in contact with the signatures, and probably others as well, stress that they will be actively involved in seeing what kind of delimitation measures compared to the damage they may be involved in. In these words, I would like to make the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e148	It's a special situation Odelstinget is up in, because I feel quite convinced that there's a clear majority in this room who want the drug shower not to be sold in the store. Nevertheless, Odelstinget today will change the law so that raspberry can be sold in the store. It is, of course, related to what the rapporteur also stated that in relation to this issue, we have a clear judgment in the EFTA Court, where Norway has done what is possible and has lost the case. We have to take the consequences of that, and that's what Odelstinget will do today. That means, as the rapporteur also says, that we will have increased access to alcohol, and we will have increased availability of a popular alcohol product, not least among young people. All research, all experience suggests that increased availability in the form provided here will lead to increased consumption. Therefore, it will be very important that, in the coming years, we focus heavily on the limits of damage. Here many measures can be considered, and let me, like what the majority do in the vote, mention some examples. It will be very important for us to keep track of the way in which this new drug shower is being marketed in the future. I use the term marketed. Although advertising for alcohol is prohibited in Norway, the alcohol industry is increasingly developing new and more subtle ways of marketing. Therefore, we need to be extra alert and be careful so that attempts can be made to market the raccoon. We need to make clear the design and labelling of the products so that they cannot appear almost identical to non-alcoholic alternatives. We have to make clear demands for placing the goods in the store, and not least I think it is very important that we take a power cap in relation to tightening up the handling of age limits. We know that we are constantly getting back reports, not least from an organization like Juvente, which is very active in testing how the age limit is practiced, that very many shops sell beer to young people under 18. Now we get a new, large product range of alcoholic drinks that young people are interested in, and it is very important that we are now really clear about enforcing age limits. Through these examples, I have mentioned some ways of making harm-reduction measures, but there are several. This is why the Workers' Party is promoting a proposal together with the SV and the Centre, asking the Government to consider several concrete measures to limit turnover. The working party might have thought of joining in today's vote where we had tried to get a 20-year age limit on the shower, with the reason that, after all, there is spirits mixed up with non-alcoholic drinks, and that the age limit for spirits is 20 years. However, I believe that it is of little use to try, when the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, announces in advance that she believes that such a case will be lost if you try it for EFTA. Then at least there is no point in trying it for EFTA, when we have recognised the loss in advance. That is why the Labour Party is also landing that we will not try in 20 years, but end up with what is the proposal. With this I address the proposal I have now referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e161	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e164	Proposals for amendments to the Alcohol Act come as a result of a decision of the EFTA Court. The introduction of non-discrimination in the placing on the market of alcohol of the same alcoholic strength requires changes which are practicable and which appear to be reasonable from the current practice of the placing on the market of alcohol. In order to meet this, it was only reasonable to allow the sale of cannabis in grocery stores, as beer remains today, and not to move beer sales to the Vinmonopolet in order to avoid intoxication in shops. At the same time, it is important that a similar age-limit solution is already addressed. The signal from the EEA is clear. Different age limits for the same alcoholic strength, depending on whether it is alcohol based or not, will not be accepted. It is therefore more important to focus on other aspects of Norwegian alcohol policy, including a number of prevention measures, than to be able to conduct correspondence and legal proceedings with international bodies to which we have joined ourselves. Similarly, it is reasonable to include similar alcoholic products not covered by the EEA Agreement. Something else would seem particularly difficult for consumers to understand the logic of. The majority’s position therefore gives clear rules to the consumer, to the trading community, to the outlaws and to the enforcement of the law, in the opinion of the government parties. However, intoxication is not unproblematic. It appeals especially to young people, including those under 18 years of age. Girls have been shown to be the most susceptible to try the raspberry. Making young people drink less and raising their first age for alcohol is a major challenge in Norwegian alcohol policy. It is therefore important for the Ministry, as announced in the proposal, to follow up on action to address these problems. Among other things, the Ministry has announced a full review of the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e175	The representative Magne Aarøen and I probably have a slightly different starting point on this matter – or really very different. But I'm not going to use this debate to drag me up to the great levels of alcohol policy to get that debate going on in this case. I will stick to that issue, which is a judgment in EFTA that we should treat products with the same alcoholic strength in a non-discriminatory manner. That's what the matter is. Some have been concerned with the major negative consequences that the drug shower will have. I don't share all the concerns. I think to a very great extent it is sad that those who today want to get hold of alcohol get hold of it. When Magne Aarøen talks about this being the biggest battle against Norwegian alcohol policy, he's probably going a little hard, because if Magne Aarøen really meant what he's saying, Magne Aarøen could choose to go the other way and say that we have to bring the beer into the pole, because then you could have treated Rausbrus and beer in the same place, i.e. on the Vinmonopolet. So I think that Magne Aarøen has a certain explanation problem right there. But of course, that's the way to deal with your friends, where, fortunately, right in this government in these areas has a majority inward approach. I see that as a great advantage – if it could not be a big problem. In the case of sales to minors, there may be a problem. But I don't think it's going to be bigger than it already is today, because you already have beer in the shops today. Some do not follow the laws and regulations that are laid down. In this context, the municipalities, also as we see it, are going to use the rice behind the mirror that you have, because you have to have permission to sell beer. When the checks carried out reveal a breach of the rules, the appropriations may be suspended for a shorter or longer period of time. The legislation is in all municipalities, with the possibility of doing so, and then you have to make sure to use the legislation. So there's been a lot of issues around just the enforcement by what's going to happen, that drug shower is going into the store. In this respect, several have started the debate on whether there should have been a 20-year age limit. There are several other issues involved. This means that everyone under 20 years of age is excluded from working in the places where this product is to be sold, because it automatically follows that you must be 20 years old in order to be able to sell such goods to consumers, so that they between 18 and 20 years of age cannot work in the store in the way they do today. At the same time, the Progress Party does not see the major problems of being treated in the same way as beer, because it has the same alcoholic strength and has the same adverse effects – for we all know that alcohol has adverse effects when going into an abuse. I think that part of what has created the big debate is the estimates that, among other things, the food industry has come with regard to how much they think they should be able to sell this product. We've all probably seen a bunch of numbers where you've turned to the big heights and assumed huge quantities. We probably have to assume that it will be sold part of this product. But personally, I think part of this is that you turn consumption from one type of product to another type of product. I also think that we will have increased sales of the product that is now being mentioned, because we already see that today at the Vinmonopolet. We looked at the latest statistics on sales at the Vinmonopolet that the basket for sale of this product went right to the worst, even though it is sold at the Vinmonopolet. It's primarily because this is a product that's quite new. You're building a larger range of products. It also makes it catch up to more people. But it doesn't have to be that because someone likes the product, you have to put so much restrictions on it that you don't get to buy it. That can't be the argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e188	In SV, we record that part of the debate that drug use products have created in Norway has also taken place downwards in Europe. On the steps, Switzerland has amended the laws relating to the placing on the market of Brussels. In the Netherlands, there are already some restrictions on this, and France has had the same. I do not know in detail what the restrictions have been imposed, which has also been tax differentiation, which has been discussed both in Switzerland and in the Netherlands. But what makes it visible is that the drug shower represents a problem in relation to the groups you are looking for, to which society is looking for countermeasures in relation to. Why? Here, products are introduced that will taste like noise to be confused, and there will often be shower components in what is sold, as the youth knows from childhood, and as they have been used to drinking in the past. If there is something that can be called cynical and raw marketing, it must be precisely in relation to this type of product. So you get a shower that kids know, and that they'll be tempted to drink, with an exciting addition of a brand like this. can be Bacardi – room – which is now allowed to enter the grocery store so that more people can buy those products. Then you have to make sure that they gradually go from drinking shower to drinking booze. I'm recording that Harald T. Nesvik says that those who want to get hold of alcohol get hold of it. There might be something true in it, but the production here is going to be kind of like we're talking about oxygen. It's not like at the moment they're born, people think like one of their first thoughts: where is it alcohol to get hold of? It's in the process of developing towards youth and adulthood, of somehow being introduced to the alcohol and then having a relationship with it. It is a social task to create a kind of relationship with alcohol, its turnover and its use, which makes it less difficult to deal with. This is where the rush shower comes in as a big problem, because the food industry is very cynical in saying that these are products that will generate interest in younger classes than before. All the research shows that the consequence is that more people will get early onset of alcohol, more people will start drinking more, and more people will eventually develop problems that they themselves will have to deal with, which will be a tragedy for them and the family, but also society will have to solve in some way. Of course, if you don't take that kind of relationship inward, you can easily consider how these products are marketed. But it doesn't, because we think it's quite obvious that this will have negative ring-effects. And this means that SV believes that the Government should go the rounds it can take in relation to European bodies, in order to avoid or restrict this type of turnover. This means that the 20-year age limit, as assessed by the Government itself, should be considered as absolute. I think, unlike Harald T. Nesvik, that the consequence of a 20-year-old age is not that you do not hire people under the age of 20, but that in those stores you will not sell these products. It could have just been a tool not to make them so widespread. Of course, the government should look at the instruments that are now being assessed in other European countries and put them to use as far as possible, in Norway. And we actually expect the government to do that from SV. We see that there will be other issues that will have greater dimensions in relation to the agreements Norway has concluded, and that one should use a type of veto on this and in a way use it as a breaker bar for us as artificial. You can mention patents on life, the Food Mining Directive, the Babysitting Directive, etc., as other directives on which it would have been more natural to look at with regard to the reservation law of Norway in relation to the EEA Agreement. However, we are concerned that the Government is using all the means that might be possible to limit the marketing of these types of products.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e199	We find it very unfortunate that the government, as a result of the EFTA judgment, has been relatively flat and sees itself forced to open up to the sale of drug shower in the store without discussing more thoroughly countermeasures and possible alternative solutions. Rusbrus in the grocery store is likely to dramatically increase the total consumption of alcohol. So it's said to be a light alcoholic, and that's that. But it's an alcohol release that will lower the debut for very many people like consumers of alcohol and alcohol. And when we know that alcohol is also like the first drug, or what you start your drug use with, and it goes on to drugs, this is serious. We know that this was very popular among young people when it was in the store for a short time in 1996, and especially among young girls. Norwegian Gallup has done a study on rusbrus, and it shows that even young people down to the age of 15 have drunk rausbrus, and a whole of 47 pst. of the group aged 15 to 17 years had a hold on and tasted raspberry. It shows that although marketing and sales today go through the Vinmonopolet, young people get to grips with this. And with sales in the grocery store, it will be even easier to get hold of this. I have quoted colleagues of great stature before today, and I want to do so now too, and also now a representative of the Christian People's Party, namely the parliamentary leader, Jon Lilletun. He says in Stavanger Aftenblad in September: ‘We have to put a hole in the myth that Norway is a restrictive country when it comes to alcohol legislation. The truth is, Norway is one of the most liberal countries. In fact, hardly any other country has as liberal opening hours as in this country. Several countries in southern Europe have now tightened up their alcohol policy, especially in order to combat the drinking of alcohol among young people. There is no reason for us to go another way." Then we find it strange that the government parties, and especially the Christian People's Party, cannot participate in our instruction that we now need to put in place proper measures to limit the adverse effect that the EFTA Court decision has brought on us. We have shown that in European countries such as Switzerland, the Netherlands and France, restrictive measures related specifically to cannabis use are now being taken. It should also have been the government parties and, as I said, especially the Christian People's Party, because now we're really going a different way from what Jon Lilletun wants in his chronicle. I think we should try the 20-year age limit, and also that this with tax differentiation and a high tax on this product should be introduced. That is what we are promoting, together with the Workers' Party and the SV. I also think it is a pity that we are now so absolutely kneeling down for the consequences of the EEA Agreement. It is not in proportion to what was said when the EEA Agreement was discussed here in Stortinget in the autumn of 1992. Then a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party said the following: ‘This majority indicates that Norway has set national health and environmental objectives and that the EEA Agreement does not prevent those objectives from being maintained. This also applies to the active policies of Norway to reduce tobacco and alcohol consumption.’ What we see today is that the European Union and the EEA Agreement instruct us and make us act contrary to what most people in this room think is right. That someone wants this welcome, I think, and that's almost a market and business approach to this. We're talking a lot about the increase in consumption, and we're measuring it in percents and liters. It's worrying that this raspberry might be sold in quantities of up to 15 million litres per year. year in Norwegian grocery stores. However, it is not just a market assessment that should be made of that relationship. It also means an enormous use of drugs. And it's a very serious social problem and gives such consequences that that's what we have to deal with first and foremost. I don't think the majority here is doing enough – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e226	The majority of the Social Committee is in favour of amending the alcohol law in accordance with the proposal submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs in Ot.prp. No 89 for 2001-2002. When this and previous governments have brought the Brussels case before the EFTA Court, it has been because we have not wanted to sell grapefruit products in the grocery trade, and also because we have seen that it would be both legally and practically difficult to distinguish between wine and spirits products covered by the EEA Agreement and the other wine products with the same alcoholic strength as beer. The Government has proposed to treat all products with an alcohol content of less than 4,76 % by volume, not only those strictly covered by the EEA Agreement. The government did not change the age limits for beverages covered by the judgment in question in the proposition made in ours. This was not addressed in the judgment, but ESA has later addressed the age limit question, and the legal advice we have obtained indicates that Norway will lose any new legal case. I have therefore recommended a common 18-year-old age limit for various types of alcoholic beverages containing less than 4.76 % vol., in a letter to the rapporteur, and I note that the majority subscribes to this. I take my responsibility for the alcohol policy follow-up to the judgment of the EFTA Court and, as the majority of the Committee points out, will actively follow up all measures that can reduce the negative consequences of the judgment. But I also expect others to take their share of the responsibility. I have therefore noticed that the number of committees particularly underlines the responsibility of producers and importers to avoid aggressive marketing. I want to bring this up in a separate meeting with stakeholders and stakeholder organisations at the producer and wholesale level before the new rules come into force. As underlined in the proposition, we now need to be prepared for increased availability to give rise to increased challenges in alcohol consumption. However, I would also like to stress that we are not on the verge of meeting these challenges, and that targeted and coordinated efforts by more teams are needed. There are already important instruments in the alcohol law, and serious penalties are linked to infringements, both in the form of withdrawal of authorisation and police reporting. It is held, among other things: requirements for the proper exercise of the authorisation for the sale and donation of alcohol, which, together with the prohibition of advertising, will provide a strict framework for the location and profiling of intoxication, not least in shops. In line with the comments of the majority, I would like to see to it that the new provisions on non-discrimination contain a requirement that alcoholic products cannot be placed in such a way that they can be confused with non-alcoholic beverages. In addition, I would like to ensure that all actors are informed of what I consider to be an irresponsible location of drug use noise, and to draw attention to what other obligations do grant holders and licensing authorities have, and I would like to address a special call to the municipalities to intensify both control and penalties as a result of the new market situation. This concerns in particular the enforcement of the ban on the sale and donation of alcohol to minors. The placing on the market of herbal cannabis in shops will increase the income of municipalities in the form of a grant fee also for these products, and it is assumed that it will cover the costs associated with the necessary intensification of control. I also want to show that in Ot.prp. No 42 for 2001-2002, to be addressed in the spring of 2003, measures have been proposed to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of the advertising ban. At the same time, action will be taken to monitor the development of consumption, in order to provide an overview of the areas in which further action should be considered, if appropriate. This is what SIRUS has done. We know, among other things: not yet the types of products that will be traded, which will be sold the most, who will buy them, nor the extent to which the turnover of cannabis will only replace the current sale and sale of beer by the Vinmonopole. It also remains to be seen how the alcohol industry chooses to handle its responsibilities, and here the Social and Health Directorate has a central role to play. All the effects of alcohol policy on the increase in the availability of wine and spirits products we will now receive cannot be eliminated. The challenge is to meet them properly. The Ministry is reviewing the alcohol law and its regulations with a view to a comprehensive review. In this context, we will address the alcohol policy challenges posed by the judgment and the current measures to compensate for it. In this work, I will follow up on the leadings of the majority in its comments, both in terms of assessing control measures, and in terms of the possibility of speedy penalties for breaches of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e247	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e251	The representative Joy had a cracking good quote from Jon Lilletun. It was very well said, and the Christian People's Party lives up to it and will live up to it. I would like the Centre Party to take that quote as well and send it as a circular to its people in the municipalities, asking them to live up to it when they deal with various alcoholic beverages. We would appreciate that. And then I realize that I've been useless and unpresidious, because the representative of Joy was tired and a little angry at the Christian People's Party – he's in many things, funny enough – so that we couldn't support it that he's in favour of. I tried to justify it. When the Council of State has said that this is something they want to raise, and we have also written in a note that we have noticed it, I trust the Council of State and find no reason to enter open doors. I think it has been a very positive debate, in which all parties have expressed concern about what might happen. I think it's important to keep a broad cross-political alliance together with the ministry to look at possible measures that can limit the damage that many of us can experience from cross-political fears. I thought it was a valuable start and a valuable foundation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e260	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding. I'm not angry at the Christian People's Party, but I'm very surprised and to some extent disappointed with the Christian People's Party in some of the matters we are dealing with today. So to the quotation from parliamentary leader Jon Lilletun – I think that is a good quote. We're living up to it, because we're trying to choose a slightly different path, both in relation to what's in the quotation and in the comment in the vote today, where we're pointing out that some European countries are now trying to go different ways. I'm amazed that you don't take the consequences of it, and I think it'll be a little frivolous when Magne Aarøen says that we can take the quote and send it around to our people, because we in the Center Party are actually doing this now in Stortingen, both during treatment and voting today. So to this by turning open the doors. The door that I see the majority and the government opening here, is the door to the pallets of russy in our grocery stores. Some other doors I don't think the government and government parties are opening up today in terms of the responsibility of drug policy and social policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e269	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 95]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e285	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Bent Höie, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e294	The background of Document No. The 8 proposal is that the proposers believe that today’s demands for accommodation of more than seven days are not a good enough criterion for those in need of care in the care of children at home after hospital stays. This is justified by the fact that hospitalisation has decreased and that there is more widespread use of outpatient treatment. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, would therefore like to re-approve the law from 1 July 2003. The change proposed in the adjustment will change the requirement to receive care allowance to cover more than seven days. The child will no longer be required to have been admitted to an institution, which holds that the child has been treated. This means that care can also be provided to parents who have children for outpatient treatment. The majority believe that access to the care allowance should be more flexible, including in particular: based on the diagnosis or general condition of the child and the need for parents’ presence. The majority ask the Government to draw up guidelines or regulations clarifying the background to the decision of the Social Security Agency. The minority, which consists of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, will show that in those cases where the requirement of seven days' hospital stay is not met, care can be provided according to the rule of § 9-5, cf. § 9-6. But we want to show that if the child is chronically ill or disabled, parents have the right to a total of 40 days of care, i.e. eight working weeks which may be used for the rehabilitation of the child. In other cases, parents are entitled to a total of 20 days, i.e. one month, or 30 days, if they have more than two children. This means that there are very few that fall between these two schemes, and that one should provide for a professional assessment of the legislation to see if adjustments were possible to capture them. What the majority is doing now is changing the law that allows for a very liberal interpretation, and that almost all hospital stays will qualify for care. As can be seen from the Ministry's calculation, the proposal will have a significant budgetary impact in 2003. The annual cost will be between 110 million. SEK and 240 million. kr. But this problem shifts all of these parties to the government. It's not very elegant that none of the parties have taken this into account in their alternative state budget, despite the fact that they know that the expenses will come next year. In the light of the comments made on the proposal, it is obvious that the majority wants a solution that is not as costly as the original proposal, but the majority is not even able to make that restriction and also wants to push this problem over to the Government. I am surprised that the majority is making a legislative change without knowing the premise for the change or the economic consequences. This would mean that a chooser would use a significant amount in this area where there are very many good purposes, without looking at this in a more prioritized context. On this basis, I recommend that the government parties vote against the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e314	Giving good care to our children must be one of the most important things we do. And we're never more vulnerable than when the children are sick, and then the child comes first. It is very demanding to have children in hospitals or in another institution, but it is also quite demanding to have care and care for children after staying and treating them in an institution — so demanding that you should not have too many other concerns in addition. In the Labour Party, it is unreasonable that care allowance should only be granted when the child is hospitalised for more than seven calendar days. When the child is ill and needs care and care, it must be the medical condition and the severity of the medical condition that must be decisive, not the number of laying days. It does not seem exactly as if this law at this point has followed in development, neither medical-technological development nor social development. There has been a radical decrease in the number of hospital laydays from 1997, from which the law is derived. Extensive use of outpatient treatment has made it very difficult for parents to follow-up and care. It is known that, within the law, there are also good arrangements that can be applied when the child is chronically ill or disabled, but despite that, fortunately, the majority of the committee believes that there are good grounds for improving the law. We are concerned that everyone should receive the financial support that will be reasonable on the basis of the needs of the individual child. Care allowance shall be allowed on the basis of our assessment when the care requirement extends over more than seven calendar days if the hospital accommodation has been less than seven days. It has been important for the majority to assume that, following a health care professional’s declaration, the social security office determines whether the conditions for care allowance have been met. The professional evaluation is thus ensured. So we do not share the views of the Council of State in a letter dated 25 October. to the Committee that such a rule must be interpreted liberally and that almost all hospital stays will be eligible for care allowance. In this case, it is the best of the child under serious illness or disability that must be the heading, and to care for the whole family as well as financially as possible. We can see that legislative changes could lead to increased use of discretion in practice, but there is not enough argument against a change. And we're willing to take that chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e331	Let me begin by saying that I am sorry that the present position is not unanimous on the part of the Social Committee. It should have been in a matter of this nature. It is really true that many parents and especially lonely caregivers sometimes have major financial problems about children’s illness and with the short bedtime we gradually get in our hospitals. The rules as they stand at this point are too square and unworkable for the individual user. I also think it is that many parents with children admitted to hospital, who really meet the requirements of seven days' stay, also do not get any care simply because they do not know that the legislation is there to help them. I am not afraid that the care allowance system will be abused, as there will always be a professional assessment of whether the need for care is present. The reasons given by the government parties for not wanting to go into the majority proposal, I find something strange, because these parties say that they are positive to the intentions behind the proposal for extended care, but cannot support this for priority reasons. And then the question is, how do you give priority to situations like this? The minority also argues, and I can better understand that the majority have not taken into account the resource use that comes out of this decision we are now making, in their various budget proposals. That's to the extent that a real reason that we should sometimes think more about each of us. Finally, I would actually recommend the representatives of the government parties to consider once again whether it would not be reasonable for the government parties to join this proposal, in less than 12 hours. I think you'd have everything to gain from it, and it's, as I said, no shame to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e346	I registered that the case rapporteur pointed out in his statement that this would be the case, while at the same time pointing out that there could be expenses of 210 million. SEK-400 million. kr, as far as I can see. It doesn't seem like it's completely connected. If this applies to a few, the cost will also be relatively small. What is important to emphasise is that there is also a limitation in the proposal supported by SV, which is linked to who is to deliver. But a prerequisite here is that care allowance should only be allowed when the care needs extend over more than seven calendar days. So to the scheme that we've had now, where there's been a limitation of seven days in hospital, and if anyone's been discharged before that time, no care allowance should be allowed. I think most people in this room must be able to agree that such a limit appears to be artificial. One can well imagine children with some very serious suffering and with a much faster hospital discharge with a completely different approach to outpatient treatment, and where there is good reason to say that one of the parents or one of the relatives is needed to be at home with the sick person — in the worst case, there may be a disease that can take months and perhaps years to treat. The duration of hospitalisation in the number of days says very little directly about the severity of the disease. And then when you have a limit on how many calendar days the care needs are going to cover, you've made a restricted entrance. This means, for example: the relative banal disorders, which may be treated in the form of one or two days’ accommodation, and which are quickly managed, do not fall within the scheme. It also means that if a child gets rid of the tonsils and the parents have to be home a few days later, then there are other types of arrangements to be used, and that type of scheme does not mean that there is no care allowance. So here's a constraint. However, I agree with the chairman of the Committee that it is of course a point to have an overview of the cost side. However, the majority have stressed that, in the context of the revised 2003 national budget, the Ministry is preparing both criteria and proceeds for a scheme and that it will not enter into force until 1 July 2003. This has ensured a treatment in the Storting where we, as the majority, are to be involved and take responsibility for achieving this. I think that the government parties here might take a hard time on what major and serious ring-effects it should have that even people who may be seriously ill, but who are discharged before seven days, will benefit from a scheme. 400 million. kr – we will see when we come to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e362	Let me first stress that the Christian People's Party agrees with the intention of the proposal. It is important that laws provide financial support for one parent — or another — to be present when a child needs continuous supervision and care. In such a situation, a child will always need to feel the security that parents can provide. For parents, it is important that they do not worry about their economy in such a situation and that they can concentrate on providing good care for the child. Today's law requires, as you know, that the child must have had a hospital stay of at least seven days. In recent years, improved treatment methods and more effective treatment have led to a trend in hospital bedtime and to a more demanding follow-up at home after hospitalisation. This, of course, also applies to children – and as a result, fewer and fewer people are entitled to care allowance under § 9-10. But we also know that in situations where there is a need for long-term rehabilitation, there has usually been a longer hospitalization in advance, and parents are entitled to care allowance. However, a danger in the current law may be that parents want the longest possible hospitalization in order to be entitled to care allowance. When the Christian People's Party does not find it possible to support this proposal, it is because it means that, on the basis of discretionary criteria, it is necessary to decide whether or not the individual should be entitled to care allowance. This will be very difficult to practice and will easily give room for discrimination. In order to avoid discrimination, there is a danger that we will have a practice whereby all hospital stays qualify for care allowance. In that case, it will lead to a major extension of the scheme. The Ministry has estimated the cost of the changes from 110 million. NOK 240 million. kr. The Christian People's Party believes that any extension of the regime must mean the establishment of a simple and predictable system, with clear criteria. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that existing law collectively provides good solutions for parents who are not entitled to care allowance. Those who today fall outside are the families where the child has not been in a hospital for seven days, or where the condition is not life-threatening or very serious. In such cases, care allowance is given as known for up to 20 days — and for 40 days when the child is chronically ill or disabled. Let me conclude by saying that it is important to facilitate a family to function well even during a period of illness, so that parents can provide the child with good care and the child feels safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e377	Caring for the children in our society is one of the most important things we can do, and one that we should give priority to. In this context, there are some keynotes that remind us of our responsibility. Among other things, there is a lot of talk today about care failure, and then government powers and societies must at least not say that you can have problems in caring for your home and being with your children in difficult situations. The Cash Support Scheme is also a key issue in relation to child care. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the government parties, who so clearly argue for the cash support and this that you should have opportunities to be with your children and provide care, are so far negative here. In the cash support debate, there is a lot of talk about freedom of choice. But here it is not the freedom of choice that is central. Here's the central possibility of getting rid of the children, which we're trying to cover up in a good way, so that disease doesn't lead to financial burdens and problems. We discussed this in another case in Stortinget earlier today. This system should not be completely random. But we know today that hospital laytime and specialist health services are getting shorter and shorter. All types of patients are sent out very early. In many cases, the patient himself and his family seem to be too early. In this case, a system must be in place so that parents/ dependants can take care of their children who are sent home and who need follow-up — even if the bedtime in the specialist institution has been shorter than seven days. Some of the criteria that the majority here outlines, make this not just random. The need for care shall extend over more than seven calendar days and the social security office shall decide, after a health care professional’s statement, whether the conditions for care allowance have been met. A professional assessment must therefore be ensured through this. The proceeds and the cost are here calculated with quite large cracks. For this reason, the majority of those who support the proposal find reason to ask the Ministry to draw up criteria for this, to calculate the proceeds further and to present it in the revised national budget for spring. I think there's security in this system. Then, when we get the numbers, we get a new discussion about whether we should prioritize this or not, with those who do not support it today. I had hoped that we would be able to get a common position on this. We have many paragraphs in the People's Security Act that cover and care for many of these needs, but we know there are some holes. The conditions which are not properly covered shall be examined by this proposal. Some say that there is too much discretion and assessment. We see that this can be based on some discretion, but we have set some criteria for, among other things. the health care provider shall provide its assessment. We also believe that guidelines or regulations should be drawn up in order to clarify the background to the decision of the Social Security Agency. So we're trying to make sure that this is going to be a system to go after. Then I don't have much more to say. I just want to say that I think it is right to follow the call made by the committee's chairman, John I. Alvheim, to the government parties, that they should support the majority decision here, so that we have a unanimous vote on this matter, and that there is no doubt that this is a matter which we get in place in connection with the consideration of the revised national budget in the spring of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e403	As the Committee stands at present, there are different schemes of care allowance, care allowance and training money that together provide good solutions in most cases, so that parents can take care of and care for sick children without compromising the family economy. Based on legislation that provides good solutions in most cases and significant additional costs of a change, I recommended not to give priority to the proposal in Document No. 8:123. At the same time, however, I see that situations may arise where the parents have used up the care allowance and are not entitled to care because the child's illness is not so serious that it is covered by the National Social Security Act § 9-11, or that the hospital stay does not last at least eight days. On this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes new rules, whereby the medical condition and severity shall be decisive criteria for the award of care allowances. According to the proposal of the Committee, care allowance should be granted when the care requirement extends beyond seven calendar days, even if hospitalisation lasts less than seven days. It is suggested that, in the context of the revised 2003 national budget, the Ministry should draw up criteria and proceeds for such a scheme so that the legislative amendment can enter into force on 1 July 2003. I will follow up the decision and the comments and come back to the revised budget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e416	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e420	It may well be that I expressed myself unclearly in my post, because the representative Ballo thought there was no link between the claim that this is a few people, but that the bill is still large. It was kind of what was the whole point of my post. I agree with the majority that there are few people who do not fall within the scope of today's legislation, i.e. that parents who have children admitted to hospital for less than seven days but who still have a need for care for more than one month can currently receive care benefits under the care pay paragraph. It will therefore be a few people who fall outside that combination. The problem is that the majority, instead of asking the Government to investigate changes that capture these few cases, chooses a change in law that opens up significantly more discretion than is the case today. So you choose to use between 110 and 240 million. kr within a budget, where there are very many good purposes, to reach a small group, which one could have achieved in another way, but only more focused. That's my charge in relation to the majority. But then, fortunately, the government is going to come back with criteria for this. I hope that the Government is able, within the so-called broad legal paragraph that one is going to adopt today, to come back with criteria that limit the adverse effects of this as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e429	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 95]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e445	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e452	The proposition currently being dealt with in Odelstinget is a consequence of previous St.melding decisions. No 31 for 2000–2001 on a better division of tasks between the three levels of government in our country. It was then decided that the county board and the State Education Office should be integrated into the county office. It was also decided that the county doctor should still have authority as a regional supervisory body under the law on state supervision of healthcare. In cases where the State Health Authority is the head of the county, the county doctor shall act on behalf of the State Health Authority, and in those cases the county may not instruct the county doctor even if the county doctor becomes an administrative and personnel member of the county office. A combined committee joins this. It is important that the supervision of healthcare functions in a way that ensures good quality for the population and that it has sufficient capacity. Good control can prevent failure of health services. The supervisory authority may provide health-care professionals with guidance and motivation for good and professionally sound professional practice. However, it can also give administrative responses in the form of a warning or by withdrawing the authorisation if there is a breach of the Health Care Act. A large majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, align themselves with the proposal that health supervision may impose a periodic penalty payment on the specialist health service if the health surveillance directive is not followed up and corrected within specified time limits. The Government Parties and the Advance Party point out that it is particularly important in a situation where the State is the owner of the health companies that the State Health Authority can provide for a periodic penalty payment on a professional basis. I believe that the minority will argue why they do not currently support the proposal, and why they want a user-related consultation in relation to dental and municipal and specialist health services. It is pointed out that the State has a dual role as owner and supervisor. The Progress Party and the Centre Party will maintain the title of ‘Health Director’ at the head of the State Health Authority and will therefore vote against the amendment proposed in the second paragraph of Section 1. The majority believe it is natural that both the head of the State Health Authority and the Directorate for Social and Health should be named with the same director’s name. The Party of Advances, SV and the Centre do not support the change in the first paragraph of Section 3, which removes the term ‘generally accepted professional standards’. Much of the reason why this is now being removed is that, in recent laws, one uses its own rules on professionally sound requirements. In the opinion of the majority, this does not represent a change in reality. There is an overall committee that supports proposals of a more tidy and technical nature both in the supervisory and in other laws. The proposition is based on that Ot.prp. No 54 for 2001–2002 on new paragraphs 2 to 7 of the Social Services Act were to be adopted before the current law came into force. The treatment of this is postponed to spring. Today, therefore, proposals are being made to amend paragraphs 2 to 7 that «the national health authorities have overall professional supervision of social services in the country and shall exercise powers in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations». In practice, this will strengthen supervision and competence. In some areas, it would be natural for the county doctor to have supervision beyond the county border. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e480	The representative, Mr Duesund, who is the rapporteur on the matter, has explained the Committee's position and the Labour Party is a member of the majority. I find it absolutely unnecessary to repeat what the representative said, but want to underline some arguments that we in the Workers' Party are concerned about. We want to underline the importance of improving the coordination of government by coordinating the supervision of health and social services. We want this to lead to a strengthening of multidisciplinary efforts, and we agree that central coordination is taking place in the Health and Social Directorate, and that such coordination should be carried out under the overall direction of state supervision at county level. However, we in the Labour Party would strongly stress the need for a clear governing authority to be assigned to the county council. When it comes to integrating both the county doctor and the state education office with the county council, we think it is very important. We do not want the governing authority to be allocated in practice to the different departments of the county, in order to experience that there are small countries within state supervision at state level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e487	Good supervision of health services is important in order to ensure the needs of the population for health care and to ensure good quality of health services, and helps to maintain public confidence in health services. The proposed changes to the laws and the reorganisation underpinned will improve the supervisory service. Furthermore, county limits shall no longer be sacred to the county councils. In particular, in view of the establishment of regional health establishments, flexibility is necessary. A boundary is also not interesting in itself. The point must be that limits are becoming appropriate in comparison to being able to do a good job. Furthermore, it is important for the State Health Authority to be allowed to impose periodic penalty payments on specialist health services. Given a deadline, it will provide the State Health Authority with an opportunity to impose better effects. The impact of non-compliance will be much more negative for institutions than before. Besides, dear child has many names. Let's hope that the director of the State Health Agency will continue to do his job, and that the population will continue to associate him with the supervision of health care, even though he will no longer be called health director.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e498	I see it as very positive that, with this attitude, we have a coordination and coordination of the State Supervisory Authority in relation to health care and social services. In the past, it has been a problem, especially in the care of the elderly, to define what was the task of the county doctor’s supervision, or what was the supervisory role of the county council, especially in the context of the new care home issue, where the county council overseeing the nursing homes and the county doctor, however, with the difference that where there was good luck and care – if ever it was the case in the country – it was the county doctor who was responsible. ‘Generally accepted professional standards’ is a concept incorporated as a background for reactions when they are broken. The definition now included in the legal text is of concern to us that we can narrow down the possibility of intervention by the supervisory authorities when it comes only to accepted professional standards. Here we should continue to have a broad interpretation. In the comments of the Progress Party in the vote, we stress the importance of flexibility in the exercise of supervision by county councils, especially in relation to geography, as regionalisation is moving very rapidly in our days. The Progress Party sees no need to change the title of the current ‘Health Director’ to ‘Director’ of Health Supervision. The Directorate for Health and Health have two very different tasks. Health supervision is an independent supervision, while the directorate is a separate body in the department. I think it would be very unfortunate to change this title, and we will vote against it. The Progress Party shall support the imposition of periodic penalty payments where the supervisor does not comply with the requirements or violates the applicable rules and regulations. It is well known to many that the follow-up to the public health service in many places is not satisfactory, and that the follow-up to public oversight in relation to the municipalities in this field is rather poorly practiced. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Health here and now to look at this problem and come back to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion in relation to the supervision and follow-up of the public dental service. Finally, I announce that the Progress Party will vote against the first paragraph of Section 3 and the second paragraph of Section 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e515	The Advocate General gave a very clear statement on the substance of the matter. I just want to make some clarifications in areas where we're not with the majority. SV, together with the Centre Party, has a comment related to the County Doctor and County Medical Officer when you now get into the law that it should be possible for a county doctor to be responsible for several counties at the same time. What you're doing here is clearly that over time you'll be able to have a centralization with fewer statesmen, and where there will be counties who now have their own county game, which is to be served by a county doctor from another county. That means SV is very unfortunate. Of course, it's nearby to pull out its own county, so as a finnmarking I will therefore naturally be concerned that Finnmark should still have his own county play. If you look at the work done by the county doctor in practical terms, it is a significant and important work. I also think that has been achieved by the Government in several documents. We've seen the same thing about the state budget. What you often experience is that it is the counties that may have the least population base and at the same time have the greatest extent, and that are most struggling with recruitment problems, which can often have the greatest need for an active county doctor and an active staff during the county board, precisely because it is then possible to identify where there is a lack of medical services or other health professionals, how the condition is at the hospitals, whether there is a lack of doctors who cannot do supervision work at the hospital home in the municipality in question, how the condition is in relation to other parts of the health services in such a municipality. The fear is that if you start looking at more centralised solutions in this area too, you will increase the trend towards a reduction in the provision of services where you are already struggling with the main problems. In this respect, the County Medical Service is also an important tool in the provision of a good health service and in caring for the social responsibility for assessing the quality of healthcare. That's why we're going against the addition to Section 1 that came from the majority. We also agree with the Centre Party and the Advance Party on the need to maintain the wording ‘generally accepted professional standards’, because it is a well-known concept which has a content in the Norwegian health care system and to which health professionals relate. We are sceptical that sanctions should now be put in place, and that instead, we should wait and have a proper hearing to do so. It is also paradoxical to have a type of periodic penalty payment and charges at different levels of health care, where the State is to impose it on itself, so that later on it would have to go in and increase the appropriations to cover the costs incurred by the same companies. You have to be a little more careful about whether this makes sense and takes care of the intentions you have for those who run a business to tighten up through economic incentives. Otherwise, we essentially think that this looks good, and I have no more to add. I will then address the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e535	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e538	The case rapporteur gave a good and thorough information on the content of the setting, and I just want to make a few comments on the points and paragraphs where we disagree. We believe, like SV, that the Health Inspectorate should not be able to give the individual county tasks covering larger geographical areas than its own. We believe that the county doctor’s responsibilities should be as they are now, and that it is important that transparency, knowledge and knowledge are good in exercising the act of the county doctor. There is a need for good transparency in order to provide good oversight, and we therefore oppose the fourth paragraph of Section 1 of the Supervisory Act. In the case of another case referred to in Section 1 – it may not be a major issue – we believe that it is right to maintain the title of ‘health director’ at the head of the State Health Authority. The Health Director, as he is called and has his mandate today, has an overall role in our health services through the overall responsibility he has for overseeing the country's health services. That's what we like to label by that title, so it's easily recognizable and has a slightly special status. Furthermore, we believe that the wording ‘generally accepted professional standards’ should be included in the law, as it is today in the first paragraph of Section 3. Removing this wording is of the opinion that we are giving a signal of a narrower interpretation of the law and less opportunity to intervene and correct critical issues that may be critical based on a more general understanding of what can or cannot be accepted. Then we're going to go against the sanctioning possibilities. We point out that, in the light of the consultation round carried out in 1998, there was no reason to propose a periodic penalty payment, nor do we believe that there is now any development in the area of supervision that would require us to introduce a periodic penalty payment. And that's what I want to say about it. Finally, I would like to spend some time on this with the Health Authority and the role of the Health Authority in relation to the state controlling itself, as the State has now taken over both the ownership and operational responsibilities of health companies and the specialist health service. What we think is worrying about this is that such a dual role can create fundamental problems of stability and can mean a weakening of the supervisory system in practice and of the reputation of the supervisory system. We believe that this is so worrying that it should be carefully followed up, and one now follows up on what happens to the practice of this. Therefore, we ask the Government to make a more detailed assessment of this supervisory regime. We think it is very important that it is practised in such a way that there is full legality in our supervisory system, and we therefore believe it is important that you can take a hearing on this. How to put it into practice, the Ministry must be able to decide. However, one should ask in particular the user interests of the user organisations and also the public sector bodies concerned by this relationship locally and regionally. One should receive feedback on how one believes this works both in practice and in principle, and in the light of this, aspects of supervision in the field of specialist health services can be assessed, and also look at, inter alia. the role and relationship of the county doctor and health care centre with the State, the status and role of patients’ representatives – whether they can be raised and strengthened on behalf of the users – and the bodies outside the State system that may and should take care of the interests of users. In the light of the debate we had in the United Kingdom today, I think it is also important to have a lively, active and active social debate on health policy and the health services for the individual. We ask the Government to file a case for the Storting on this, where it has reviewed the supervision system for the specialist health service, and that this matter be promoted by the spring of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e555	Let me briefly comment on the debate so far. The present legislative proposal proposes that, in the event that corrections are not carried out within the prescribed time limit, the State Health Authority should be able to impose periodic penalty payments on the specialist health service. In addition, the proposal contains proposals for some other amendments to the State Supervision Act. The latter amendments, as well as proposals for amendments to some other laws, are largely technical in nature. The changes are largely a necessary follow-up after the reorganisation of the central social and health administration. I attach great importance to the proposal to impose periodic penalty payments, because I believe it is important for the supervisory authority, in the same way as other State supervision, to be given the opportunity to use economic instruments to ensure more effective enforcement of the legislation. Both the Data Protection Agency, the Labour Inspectorate, the State Pollution Control Agency and the Directorate for Fire and Electricity have access to the imposition of periodic penalty payments in the event of non-correction following imposition. However, all indications suggest that there will be no coercion in many cases of failure to follow-up of orders – this because the Health Inspectorate has so far given few notices of impositions and impositions on the specialist healthcare service. Even I hope and believe that the system of imposing periodic penalty payments will have a preventative effect, so that the correction order will be carried out within the prescribed time limit; in other words, that there will be a rice behind the mirror. I believe that a system in which health supervision is to impose periodic penalty payments on specialist health services will contribute to the general confidence of the population that the State as a supervisory authority is effectively supervising the new health establishments, even if the State is also the owner of them. For this reason, I am somewhat surprised that the representative, who argued with the need for independent supervision – which I fully agree with – recommends that Odelstinget vote against this proposal, which is precisely a mark of the independence of supervision and its instruments. Let me also draw the attention of the representative to the fact that any complaints about the supervisory decision to impose such periodic penalty payments will be addressed to the appeal authority, which, following a decision by the King, is the Ministry of Social Affairs and not the Ministry of Health, precisely in order to avoid criticism of the stability of the appeal proceedings. Now that county medical posts are to be integrated into county councils, county councils will have two lines of instruction to deal with. In matters of supervision, county doctors shall be directly subject to the health supervision of the State. This is important to me in order to ensure independent supervision of high integrity. In other cases, the county doctors shall be subject to the authority of the county council with the Social and Health Directorate as their superior. In the light of these changes, work is under way in the Ministry to complete the legislation for the new distribution of powers. With regard to the proposal allowing County Medical Officers to assume responsibility for businesses outside their own country, there is just a necessary consequence of the corporate reform, where the Stortinget has just given the possibility to organise health businesses across state borders. It will be absolutely necessary for the Health Authority to have this possibility to allocate tasks between county doctors according to the way undertakings are organised. It is not in this that you should no longer have county doctors in each state, except for the change resulting from the integration of County Council in the county office of Oslo and Akershus, where you have one county.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e575	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox We are now approaching the scheduled time for the end of the morning meeting, at 0 p.m. 15th [[Footage, see page 96]] The examination of the last case, case No. 6, it is assumed to take approx. Half an hour. The President will propose that this morning's meeting continue until today's map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e595	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Socialist Left Party, 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e602	On 11 June 2002, the Social Committee gave its opinion on St.meld. No 14 for 2001–02, Evaluation of the Law on the Medical Use of Biotechnology. The Committee then went into a number of areas, including: also the two areas concerned in the case to be dealt with today, where the Government requests clarification on two key issues. One is the question of continued prohibition of research on fertilised eggs, including clarification of the legal text with its extension, and the other is a ban on therapeutic cloning. Just because the Social Committee went so thoroughly into these issues in June, I'm not going to go into detail here on all the arguments related to it, but I'm still going to draw up some. The majority, consisting of the government parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, point out in their attitude that the Biotechnology Act already contains a ban on research on fertilised eggs, § 3-1 of today. The government's proposal for a new legal text clarifies that the prohibition also applies to human embryos, i.e. cells that are further differentiated, so that the fertilised egg begins to take the form of a human embryo. The majority note that the Government of the proposal also clarifies that the prohibition applies to cell lines grown from fertilised eggs or human embryos. I would add that if you are initially in favour of a law order, it would be quite obvious that you will also be in favour of the changes proposed by the Government here. To be sure, I came up with the definition of the term ‘embryo’ from the encyclopedia of the Knowledge Publisher and it is defined as follows in the last edition: ‘Name of the foetus during the period from the egg to the end of the 8th week of gestation in the mucous membrane of the womb. From this time until birth, the new individual is called fetuses.» I'm taking this so precisely, because what's so interesting, and that says something about technological development, is that you can get into a situation relatively quickly where the embryo concept has to be defined differently. One can imagine that the same development does not happen by the egg attaching itself to the uterus of the woman, but by other means creating a further development without that egg being in the womb itself. Therefore, it is important to take this into account in legislation, and to prevent research and thus to get past the research ban itself. It makes sense, therefore, that the majority are trying to help close any gaps in legislation here. Then I record that the minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, opposes that change. I understand from the text that both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have clearly justified their position that they want to open up research on fertilised eggs. It is clear from the text. Technically, however, it will be that when a proposal for an alternative text has not been made, the text that exists is actually supported. There is a text in favour of a ban on research on fertilised eggs. But I can see clearly that these two parties have just left out entering that text, and that they go in for it not to be such a prohibition. The majority have noticed that the Biotechnology Act does not currently contain a ban on therapeutic cloning and that the reason for this is that to date there has been no technology that has made therapeutic cloning of human cells possible. The majority note that the Government is proposing a new §3-2, which involves such a prohibition, and that the prohibition covers both the production of human embryos, research on cell lines from human embryos and the production of embryos using human genetic material introduced into an animal egg cell. The need for legislation in this area, whatever it may be, is made visible by the latest communications from Italy. Whether or not a cloned cell has been successfully implanted, which should then become a child born next year, is uncertain. But precisely because we're seeing a development where someone goes a lot into trying, it's important that you have a law. Now this isn't about reproductive cloning, it's about therapeutic cloning, but the technology will be exactly the same. A majority have also stated that it should be banned, while the Labour Party and the Progress Party open the way for it to be legal. But I would like to stress that the two parties do not open up the kind of technology and opportunities that have been described by Italy, which will be reproductive cloning. I record that the Labour Party and the Advance Party find it remarkable and unfortunate that the Government is proposing a ban on research on fertilized eggs and a ban on somatic brain transplantation, i.e. therapeutic cloning. They argue that it is what has so far provided the best basis and the best results. The majority argues differently. The majority do not agree that there is evidence that it is the type of research that has produced the best results. The reason for this is that in the use of cells – there will be talk of stem cells here – it is precisely the cells of born individuals that have given the best result so far. A good example of this is the use of bone marrow for transplantation, i.e. bone marrow transplantation, where bone marrow is taken and used in such a way that it can provide opportunities for others to survive, and where stem cell technology has been used. Until now, the technology associated with the use of fertilised eggs has been at an experimental stage, while a good deal of experience is already being gained with the use of stem cells from born individuals. Otherwise, I will not go into and problematize what is here, too much, but will just stress that in both areas the Committee gave its agreement as early as June. It is therefore quite logical that the Government should make these proposals. They are fully in line with what the Committee has already indicated that it supports. In addition, the Government will at a later stage present its other proposals for amending the Biotechnology Act related to the EEAG that were addressed in the spring. As far as I have understood, next year, the Spring Day Storting will have a case for treatment related to the Law on Biotechnology.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e629	In the Government's proposal to amend the Law on the Medical Use of Biotechnology, the Government maintains the ban on research on fertilised eggs and the prohibition of therapeutic cloning. The Labour Party disagrees with the government parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. I think it is important to keep both the ethical tab and the ‘Be careful’ poster high. The Labour Party and I believe that it is very good to take these considerations into account at the same time as one supports and gives research opportunities, among other things. to determine whether there is a possibility of finding complete or partial cure for diseases such as Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, multiple cancers and heart disease. I have noticed that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health working group that was to assess what might be medically related to ethical issues related to the use of stem cells derived from aborted foetuses and fertilised eggs ended up with the conclusion that it was acceptable to carry out such research on detailed terms, i.e. the majority of this group came to that conclusion. This also closed the majority of the hearing bodies. I have also noticed that the majority in the Biotechnology Study supported therapeutic cloning to produce human stem cells for use in research and treatment. Although we in Norway should not run after other countries’ solutions, it is not unproblematic to stay outside the rules and practices of other countries. This can lead to a lower level of competence of Norwegian researchers and Norwegian health professionals as well as to unwanted cross-border patient flows. Many countries have opened up both for research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning. We're not going to lift our eyes so much to see that research is intense all over the world in these areas. At the same time, however, there is a clear commitment for all countries to put in place international legislation that prohibits, for example: human cloning. The Workers' Party and I support allowing research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning for stem cell production. Of course, I also support research into the use of stem cells from born people. As far as I can see, among other things. the production in the Ministry’s legislative proposals is not just promising results from research into the use of stem cells from born individuals for medical treatment. This suggests that we need to be able to invest in several ways in research. I also have to add: we know that abundant fertilised eggs will be destroyed after a certain time. This could not be more ethically high than using such ‘surplus’ eggs for controlled research purposes. I believe that every human being is unique and should not be a means of research itself. Those who choose to put an equal sign between a fertilized egg and a born individual, I think, go too far. Other legislation makes a clear distinction here, such as abortion legislation. The Labour Party will vote against the proposed legislative changes, in the light of the views we have expressed in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e648	The right to life is fundamental. Right thinks that human life has an inviolable self-esteem. Human life cannot be assessed against other objectives. Legislation on medical-ethical issues related to the commencement, maintenance and life processes of life will continue to change, but for the Right it shall be the ethics that limits the use of technology, not the other way around. We are therefore pleased that the Government follows this up with proposals for legislative amendments soon after the Storting's handling of the paper on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. The principles underlying the bill were adopted in Stortinget this summer by 60 to 38 votes. I'm glad that the same parties are now behind the legislative changes. The majority assume that no individual should be reduced to a medium for other individuals, since each life is a goal in itself. The minority, in my opinion, sets the goal of society to treat sick people in the front in such a way that a life is reduced only to a means, not a goal in itself. The majority assume that one must set ethical limits for research through an open and democratic process. Norway must take this debate on its own initiative. Then, of course, we must work for an international regulatory framework which will follow this up as closely as possible. The majority clearly agree to continue the ban on research on fertilised eggs, and states that this applies to human embryos and cell lines grown from fertilised eggs or human embryos. A fertilized egg is a sprout for human life. It contains all the attributes that are needed to become a new human being. It is not only in the Christian belief that man has a value in himself in addition to a pure utility, even in a humanistic tradition, that man is endowed with a self-value that is inviolable. By using fertilised eggs in the research, they are given a value only for the benefit of others. Therefore, opening up research on fertilized eggs will be a radical instrumentalization of human dignity to the beginning of life. We know today that there are alternatives that do not require the same ethical balances – research on stem cells from born persons. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has already begun to invest in that type of research and will follow this up. Here Norway has the opportunity to be in the forefront, both in the form of clear ethical legislation and at the same time a commitment to future-oriented medical research. The minority believe that it is not consistent to accept self-determined abortion, but not research into fertilised eggs. I believe that this is not a relevant objection. The abortion law does not say that the fetus before the twelfth week does not have a self-esteem, but it says that the female situation may be so difficult that there can be morally sound reasons for abortion. Therefore, the bulk of the population has chosen to give the woman herself the opportunity to make this balance – a balance that I don't think anyone thinks is simple, precisely because she has an opinion about the intrinsic value of the foetus. I don't think anyone will claim that a fetus before the twelfth week is perceived as having no self-esteem for the pregnant woman or her surroundings. Therapeutic cloning will be regulated by this Decision under law in Norway today. Therapeutic cloning will mean that the patient, for example: may have fresh cells from their newly produced ‘sweeped twins’. In the future, a person may thus treat serious diseases such as Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. A number of other countries, such as the UnitedKingdom and the UnitedKingdom. United Kingdom, has opened up therapeutic cloning. Therapeutic cloning will mean that a creature creates a sprout for life based on a purely profit assessment, but also that a start on a process that can lead to cloning of already born individuals, namely reproductive cloning. In Norway, the children’s panel unanimously recommended not to allow therapeutic cloning, precisely for this reason. Today’s legislative amendment is evidence that policy can be ahead of development. There is also evidence that society is able to take political and ethical debates in areas that are so complicated that one would think that maybe they were only available to the experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e671	Let me start by saying that I strongly regret the message from Italy that a cloned human being is on its way. This inevitably harms the research environments around the world that operate well within ethical, normial boundaries. It is also unfortunate for those of us who may have a slightly different view of the matter we are dealing with today, when such things happen that absolutely should not have happened. The population had an in-depth and in-depth debate on research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning to generate stem cells in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 238 for 2001-2002. It then crystallized a majority for continued prohibition of research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning covering all batches, with the exception of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. I therefore see no great intention of repeating the debate we had at the time in Stortinget, but will briefly mention the following: the current government has obviously taken a political stance in relation to the development of genetic and biotechnology where the leading principle has become decisive, with the consequences it can have for Norwegian research and Norwegian clinicians and in particular with the negative effects it can have on future Norwegian patients. That the Government will continue to have a ban on research on surplus eggs, which in any case will be destroyed, and will not allow therapeutic cloning for stem cell production, seems to me to be a continuation of the political lines of the abortion problem and the current abortion law. When, on the other hand, the Government will allow the Norwegian health services and Norwegian clinicians to benefit from the research results generated from external therapeutic cloning and research on fertilised eggs, this is a double standard that I have problems understanding. One can agree or disagree, but the fact is that through the abortion law, we have legislation in Norway which means that the unborn life up to the twelfth week of pregnancy is without legal protection, and that legal protection for the moral status of the foetus and human dignity is gradually increasing as the biological development of the foetus progresses. I find it particularly regrettable that the Government does not choose to follow the Biotechnology Study's recommendation to allow both research on fertilized eggs and therapeutic cloning. The subject of biotechnology is composed of professionals and ethicists, and should have the best professional competence to give advice to politicians. The subject of biotechnology has, of course, placed greater emphasis in its assessment on what this research can bring about positive results for future generations of severe disease. I believe that the majority of Odelsting today assumes quite a great responsibility by depreciating the possibility for Norwegian research environments and clinicians to participate in line with international research in an area that could have given help to Norwegian patients in the future. I also find it striking and unintelligible that it should be more ethically acceptable to destroy abundantly fertilised eggs than to use them for research to advance in the prevention and treatment of serious fatal disorders. In this context, I also point out that a majority of the hearing bodies have gone against banning therapeutic cloning and research on fertilised eggs. It is difficult to predict, but personally I would assume that a significant majority of the Norwegian population are so interested in Norwegian research environments and Norwegian clinicians being allowed to be at the height of research and development in this particular technology at any time. Finally, I announce that we will vote against the law and that we will vote against the whole law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e692	It was with amazement and disappointment that yesterday I heard the news that the first cloned baby was expected. This shows that we are faced with powerful forces that do not take ethics and morality into account. I'm glad that a total accumulation is clear that it's still to be forbidden to raise born individuals by cloning. It is also agreed that Norway should promote an international ban on reproductive cloning. The Christian People's Party would have wanted there to be equal consensus on a ban on therapeutic cloning and the prohibition of research on fertilized eggs. In therapeutic cloning, a potential human life is produced only to serve as a means of medical research. This research can help to improve the availability of treatment opportunities for incurable diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. This is very positive. But for the Christian People's Party, the most important ethical principle is that man is a goal in itself that cannot be reduced to being a means to the benefit of others. Stem cells are unique. They can renew themselves by giving rise to two identical stem cells after one cell division, and they are able to specialize in becoming e.g. muscle, blood, skin or nerve cell. It's a fantastic potential that lies in the ability to create new cells for patients who have been damaged their own cells. Think of the possibilities of a fire victim getting a new skin! Because the possibilities are so many, the Christian People's Party wants you to research stem cells. This is demonstrated in practice by a relatively large increase for this purpose in the budget for next year. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to be at the forefront of research on stem cells from born persons. Many suggest that these stem cells have a much greater potential for becoming different types of cells than previously assumed. Further research will show whether this change is permanent and can be used to produce surrogate tissues from patients' own body cells. In this way, you can avoid producing stem cells from fertilised eggs and abortions and avoid using therapeutic cloning. The Christian People’s Party believes that the cloned egg is a potential human life that has the same protection as born persons. For us it is not acceptable to create a life for this life to be an instrument for the treatment of another human being. If one is open to research on surplus fertilised eggs by assisted fertilisation, there may be a risk that one fertilises more eggs than necessary. The aim is always to reduce the number of eggs and that the eggs that are fertilised should evolve into the children the parents have long wanted. As I said, I am pleased that there is a good alternative to producing stem cells from born people. This gives hope to patients today who have to endure severe suffering. This option can be agreed by an overall committee, and this is where Norway needs to further develop its competence and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e715	I almost said, at the time of the party, I should probably be able to resign, because we have a relatively large consensus within the majority. But I still want to come up with some things. Case rapporteur Olav Gunnar Ballo presented the views of both the majority and the minority on the matter, and there is, as I said, a great deal of agreement between the Right, Christian People's Party, SV and the Central Party on this matter, as it was in the handling of the biotechnology notification. Today's Biotechnology Act already has a ban on research on fertilised eggs. But the government is adding here to a deepening and clarifying of this ban on human embryos and cells that can be further differentiated and that can then be used in research. As far as therapeutic cloning is concerned, there has been no prohibition in our biotechnology legislation. That's what the government is proposing, which we support. It implies that such a prohibition covers both the production of human embryos, research on cell lines from such cells and the production of embryos using human genetic material that can be inserted into animal ovary cells. What has been affected here, and which has been a strong mention of this matter, are the messages we have received from Italy recently about what is happening or has happened there. Like others, I am glad that there is a cross-political consensus here in Stortingen that there must be a ban on reproductive cloning. I want to say a little bit about the alternatives in biotechnology and the legislation we are now putting up with. I am pleased to note that a ban on research on fertilized eggs today does not represent the same ethical dilemma that it might have done a while ago. This is because the breakthroughs in research have not been on the use of cells from fertilized eggs, but primarily on the use of adult stem cells, i.e. cells from born individuals. Then the ethical dilemma won't be the same. Then life is not set as a means against life as a goal. This problem is avoided, and that's why it's good to remember that the research we need to focus on now is research on adult stem cells. Norway should be in the forefront of research on adult stem cells both in terms of resources and the environment. I would like to remind the Government of what we said in the context of the Biotechnology Communication, that it must be a priority area in Norway, and that in the coming years special resources must be allocated to stem cell research, so that Norway can be among the leading countries in the world in terms of this type of research, also in relation to the fact that this is positive for the health sector and the health treatment of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e730	Today's debate has been marked by yesterday's news that a cloned baby is alleged to be on its way in an unknown country in the world. The representative Alvheim regrets that such things happen, which should not happen. That's exactly the starting point for us to have a biotechnology law. It is necessary to regulate research and to set a framework for biotechnology activities, so that such things that are not to be done do not happen either. The Biotechnology Act regulates areas of medical use of biotechnologies in humans that are constantly evolving. That's why you'd have to assume that, among other things. as a result of technological developments, there will be a need to amend and develop existing laws and guidelines. The proposal to amend the legislation under consideration today is forced to do so because new research and technology raise ethical issues that were not foreseen when the law was passed in 1994. The present proposal for amendments to the law aims to clarify that the current prohibition on research on fertilised eggs should also include research on cell lines cultivated from fertilised eggs or human embryos. The precision is essential for the consistency of the current ban on research on fertilised eggs. Should the prohibition not apply to such cells, it would be possible to investigate stem cells from fertilised eggs or human embryos as long as the isolation of stem cells itself is not carried out in Norway. It would undermine the ban on research on fertilized eggs. Furthermore, a ban on the production of human embryos by cloning and a ban on research on cell lines grown from such embryos is proposed. Cloned eggs can hardly be said to be a fertilised egg. In the case of fertilisation, it is a fusion of eggs and sperm cells. Research on a nuclear transplanted or cloned egg therefore does not fall within the current prohibition on research on fertilised eggs, and therefore this legislative change has been necessary. Finally, it is proposed to prohibit the production of embryos by cloning by introducing human genetic material into an animal egg cell. I find it very gratifying that the majority of the Social Committee, through the vote that has been put before it, joins in the proposals of the Government, which are a follow-up to the commitments of the so-called Sem Declaration. On the basis of the Government's proposals, it is understood that every germinal human life has a self-value, which does not depend on the qualities or ability of social effort. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that human life is not an end in itself, but is made a means of achieving anything else. The argument with the abortion law I don't think I can be valid, it bears the mark of being a circular ending. A fertilized egg is a germinal human life. It is therefore ethically problematic to use fertilised eggs as a means of medical research. The government will pursue a policy in this area based on the desire for additional protection and care for the particularly weak. And no one needs more protection and care from society than man at the beginning of life. In therapeutic cloning, a potential human life is produced in order to serve research and, where appropriate, future treatment. In the opinion of the Government, allowing human embryos to be produced only as a means of use to others would threaten human dignity. Such instrumentalization of human life, in the government's view, is not acceptable. The current amendment is based on developments in recent stem cell research. Research on the use of different types of stem cells is still at an early stage. Many technical and safety challenges remain before stem cells may be used in treatment. Among other things, one needs to learn how to control the processes, so that the stem cells develop the special type of tissue you want, and one needs to ensure that you do not get unwanted growth at risk of developing tumours. The government then wants to prioritise research on adult stem cells. This type of research does not raise the same ethical issues as research on stem cells from fertilised ova or embryos produced by cloning. It cannot be claimed, as the minority of the Social Committee does in the vote, that: «Fruit egg research» and «therapeutic cloning»... «to date the best results» and «seem to have the greatest potential for further development». New research results are constantly being published, drawing in different directions. The government therefore considers it appropriate to respect human dignity by choosing the option that does not raise ethical problems in the same way that therapeutic cloning does. The government therefore wants to strengthen research on adult stem cells from 1.5 million. SEK in 2002, increasing to SEK 5 million. kr in the draft budget for 2003, and is set to follow this up further in the future. I would once again like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the majority of the Social Committee, in its position, has joined the proposals that the Government has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e761	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e764	The attitude of the Social Committee touches on fundamental ethical principles. That is why I asked for the word to relate a few brief reflections to, in particular, the reasoning put forward by the committee's chairman, John I. Alvheim, who is also written in a separate minority comment from the Progress Party. In my opinion, it is due to a confusion of legal and ethical issues when, because of the fact that it is not a legal protection for the fetus for the first twelve weeks, it concludes that this means that in this phase neither has the embryo any human dignity, nor that for that matter it is concluded that it makes sense to operate with such a formulation of words as classified human dignity at all. In my opinion, that phrase is meaningless. Human dignity is not quantifiable in any context. I guess none of us would think that because in Norwegian law we have special legal protection rules for certain groups, for example. minorities, it should mean that these minorities have a higher human worth than the others have. I think it is essential for the clarity of moral issues to be kept separate from the legal issues on which legal protection society at all times finds it possible to offer, for example. the fetus in the first phase of pregnancy, and the question of view on human dignity. It is self-evident, as the minority – consisting of the Working Party and the Advance Party – writes in the setting that it is: ‘difference of a fertilised egg, embryo and individual’. Yes, of course – as of course there is a difference between a one-year-old and a ten-year-old, a 40-year-old and a 90-year-old. Of course, there's a difference. The question is, what difference is morally relevant and what difference is not morally relevant. What happens to the fertilised egg if no one intervenes and stops the development? Then it usually happens that it evolves into a normal human individual. I am pleased that there is a clear majority in the Committee in favour of drawing the margin line where the Government has proposed, and with the reason the Government has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e781	After that lecture by the representative Inge Wohnung, who himself clearly believes that he represents the truth, I only have the following comment: I say to the toller in the great book: «God, please forgive me!»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e786	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 97]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e794	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 6
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e819	Notification of Odelsting's decision will be sent to the Storage Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e909	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e919	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e926	During the debate, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate concrete, market-restrictive measures for alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of less than 4,76 % in connection with the expansion of this product spectrum in the retail trade.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e967	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e977	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1016	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1029	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1041	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1048	During the debate, the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a detailed assessment of the supervision system for specialist health services, including the conduct of a user-related consultation. The Government must also present a case to the Stortning where the supervisory regime is reviewed and proposals for amendments are promoted, by spring 2004.’» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1091	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they are moving towards the second link. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are moving towards the fourth term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1129	Here the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1175	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1256	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1266	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1340	The Labour Party and the Advance Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1353	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Advance Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28-lower.ana.ud1483e1367	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
