ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e45	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East-Agder counties: Liv Marit Moland For the West-Agder province: Sigmund Kroslid For the state of Buskerud: John-Ragnar Aarset For the state of Hedmark: Johnny Hult For Uppland County: Tove Lehre For Vestfold County: Vidar Andersen The representative Rune J. Skjellaa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e74	I would like, on behalf of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, to make a proposal to legislate similar insurance schemes in case of accidents for primary and secondary school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e79	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e93	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party group and for members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e100	It is not very new to say in this area after the Storting debated the European message a relatively short time ago. But if there is no new rule in Stortinget, a word is given without saying anything new, so I intend to continue anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e107	The President can confirm that the assumption is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e110	In one area there is something new, but in that area I don't intend to say anything special. The new thing is that Norway is approaching negotiations on an extension of the EEA Agreement, which is not a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, but an extension of the EEA Agreement – which could have quite far-reaching consequences for the framework within which the Agreement is to operate. I believe that this debate will be influenced by the fact that these negotiations are just ahead of us, and that one will therefore try to stay away from something similar to defining a negotiating mandate for the Government, before the Government has gone through all aspects of this situation and discussed it with the Storting. It would be the normal procedure in such a situation. This is also clearly expressed by the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in the setting. We're going to get back to this in the normal way. When the EU is enlarged, the EEA area must be expanded simultaneously with the same countries. The basic idea in the EEA itself is to have a homogeneous internal market for the EU and the EFTA countries which have joined the EEA. In practice, this means that the EEA extension will probably have to be clear in April next year, if one looks at the form laid down in relation to the EU enlargement. This is followed by an approval of each Member State, old and new. All the parties in the United Kingdom have argued that it is important to extend the EU because it is important for Europe and therefore important for Norway, which it is called everywhere. Now one of the settings can get the impression that the SV and the Central Party have doubts about this, and that they think it is unfortunate that several countries are going to enter a political system as unfortunate as the EU is. We others believe that it is still important for Europe and Norway to have an extension that will stabilise Europe. This may mean whether Norway should join or not. In isolation, the extension will lead to a disadvantage for Norway in one area. It applies to the much-mentioned free trade agreements that we have for seafood produced in Norway to countries in Central Europe that will now enter the EU. As a result, this agreement will fall away, and this we are entering into the EU's normal external border treatment for Norwegian products in this area. There's going to be higher customs duties, that is. that the goods entering this area are treated in the same way as the corresponding goods currently entering the EU. This is a question for negotiation, and we look forward to a further review of it in relation to the Government. Enlargement will not, in principle, change the EEA Agreement. The key elements remain unchanged: a two-pillar system – the EU and EFTA/EEA – and own institutions for EFTA countries, with the same objectives and functions as they do today. Consequently, the same is agreed upon by international law or by law. It is important to establish and maintain that no matter what happens to an extension, the agreement is the same. It was also gallant when Sweden, Finland and Austria changed sides, from EFTA to the EU, in this system. The difference is that several countries join the one pillar, which thus becomes more separate than he was, and relatively much stronger, but also more complicated than he has been and much larger than the EFTA pillar. One should be politically blind and deaf not to see that such a change will have consequences — perhaps 25 countries on one side and three of the smallest European countries on the other, i.e. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. There has been a dramatic development since EEA negotiations started early in the 1990s. EFTA was then a formidable trading bloc and itself an interesting market for the EU, or the EC, which it was called in the first place. EFTA/EEA has fallen from well over 20 pst. of EU trade at an early stage down to 4 pst. in 1999. It's the numbers that are enlightened. It is a dramatic economic and political change. The EU has changed in many areas. The Council and Parliament have gained great power, far greater power than they had when the EEA Agreements were negotiated, and there are two bodies that Norway does not have a relationship with under the EEA Agreement. That is to say, the Council had a discussion about incorporating into the EEA Agreement, but stopped it there. The agreement had to be given a new round and, therefore, one more time with the system you have today, that it is a relationship between the European Commission and the EFTA countries. The EU cooperates more closely in many areas which were not covered by the EEA Agreement at that time and which are not covered by the EEA Agreement at present, but which have major implications for the areas covered by the EEA Agreement. That is, the EEA Agreement has not been amended, but the terms and conditions under which the Agreement will operate have been changed and will be changed in the future. We just have to figure that out, and it's under the circumstances that the agreements are going to work. It's a changed EU, but we stick to the basic elements of the EEA Agreement. No one wants to terminate the EEA Agreement, with immediate effect in any case, here in Stortinget no. There are some, SV and the Central Party, who want to cancel alternatives to the EEA Agreement, but they do not propose a termination of the agreement. I believe it is important to establish that there is broad agreement to the agreement, also with the modified terms under which the agreement will operate with a changed EU. If Norway had decided all over Europe, we would probably find a system that had looked completely different than the EEA Agreement and that had given Norway greater power and only advantages. But it's very hard to get a collaboration where one just picks up the benefits. Those who want to settle these options, with the premises from the minority, are faced with a difficult task when calculating an option that appears to give Norway only a distribution in cooperation. But if it were to be agreed, it's interesting to see if the Government is able to cancel that kind of international cooperation. It is also not possible to calculate the exact effects of the EEA on all areas. It is not possible to isolate the area of an EEA-wide contractual system. It is important to enter and look at impacts for some areas, but it is not possible to calculate this entirely specific area for the region. Some people want to see advantages, but they don't necessarily calculate this very accurately. Others will see disadvantages, without having calculated this very carefully. A polling of EU leaders recently showed this. Much of it felt that the internal market was a disadvantage. Many thought he was an advantage, probably based on what one had lit on himself. Consumers thought that the internal market was a major advantage, at least in the majority. By the way, I believe the ever-present Nation referred to that poll yesterday or yesterday. In Norway too, many people will have the impression that the EEA Agreement is bad. Others want to have the impression that he's an advantage. What we can say is that it is not possible to approach such a contractual system and think that one has only advantages or only disadvantages. Then, of course, we have the disadvantage of the EEA agreement that we are weak if there are things we disagree with. Once agreed by the EU, there should be a great deal more to say no. We can say no on behalf of Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, but not on behalf of Norway, to take over EU legislation. But with the change that has occurred between the two arrows, the displacement of power, etc. As I say, this has become a pretty dramatic step to take. Then one can do as we do in practice if one in each party is disparate politically, or if Norway is united has an interest that is opposed to what is agreed, that we can protest, but join in the process. It was otherwise something that the Centre Party also did in government, as far as I understood, when some of these legislation disappeared into the EEA system a few years ago. The situation is that it is difficult to block. But one consequence of entering into such cooperation is also that one has to take over areas in which a person is actually disunited. In this setting, we have chosen not to go into some areas, we have only looked at the function of the EEA Agreement. And we've found that she's been working pretty much according to the intentions, giving us the big changes that have happened on the EU side and in the balance between the two arrows. Without including it, an incorrect picture of the EEA Agreement will be given. One shall also bear in mind that Norway does not implement EEA legislation because ESA or others will. We implement it because a majority in Norway has found that this effectively guarantees trust for the Norwegian economy and secure framework conditions for Norwegian business. That's why we created the EEA Agreement. There is no body called ESA, or anything like that, that has found that we are going to implement these codes. We have said that we should do this because of the Norwegian economy and because of Norwegian jobs. That's the simple starting point for this, and from this point of view, we believe that the agreements have largely worked according to the intentions, but with the changes around them. Otherwise, there's been a rather strange debate about ESA lately. I'm not going to defend what ESA does in everything, it gets ESA to do separately. But one should think that the option of such a monitoring body would be to have the Commission monitored, which is constitutionally impossible and which was distributed, or that one implements on a unilateral basis. And then the trust in the implementation that one has would be gone, because one doesn't have an unhilded organ that looks at this. Then we'd rather be in disagreement with this body, but we need an unhealthy body to check what Norway is doing. We can't do it on a national basis, it doesn't have any trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e152	I would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur for the way in which he has organised the work of the Committee. This has led us to have an attitude from the Committee which remains clear about the key overall political issues and does not fall into all the individual and detailed issues of which a big message of this kind will naturally be full. I think it provides a good basis for the Storting debate to focus attention on the overall political issues. There is really only one sentence in the post from the case-rapporteur to whom I have little wonder. He said categorically that there is no one in Stortinget who will terminate the EEA Agreement. And it is true, if you read the Committee's position, that there are no parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee who have expressed such a wish. On the other hand, a former State Council of a Workers' Party government recently went out in a generally serious newspaper, the Official Journal of Bergen, and stated that ESA exists to plague the Nordics, and that he would like to terminate the EEA Agreement immediately. After all, it is customary to assume that the former state councils are in agreement and assembly, at least some time after they have resigned, and one is also used to count Bergen's Official Journal as a newspaper that is in the sense and collection. So my question to the case rapporteur is whether, in the meantime, he has satisfied himself that this was a misunderstanding, and that he can accept, even in the case of the Workers' Party's Group, that it is right that there is no one in the Storting that will wind up the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e159	In any case, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I can guarantee that no one will terminate the EEA Agreement. The former Council of State to which reference has been made, Olav Akselsen, himself believes that he has facilitated a debate on the EEA Agreement. I fear that if the representative Salaries and the representative Akselsen started a discussion between themselves, they would be horrified to agree. The difference would be that the one has said it in the newspaper, while the other has not said it in the newspaper recently. I think that's the whole difference between the two approaches. The centre party and SV shall respond separately a little later. A comment I'm looking forward to is if they, when they ask for more explanation of the options, have honestly come into question whether there is a clear alternative now, or whether it's just a follow-up to the previous performance, that an EEA Agreement is dissimilar, but now will give it a different form and will cancel the options.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e166	The case spokesperson said there was nothing new. It's not going to happen one day, it's going to come up with something new in relation to the EEA. The last is that the Commission itself considers that the whole agreement should be concluded. So here's something happening from day to day. In any case, what we know from experience is that the agreement in the area by area prevents us from pursuing our own policies, whether it concerns how we want to state aid in the districts, or other areas. One area where there is a scary development in relation to ordinary workers is the trade in services. The 1973 trade agreements do not cover trade in services. It does the EEA Agreement. The statistics on this trade are not deficient in the Storing Message. She says nothing about developments, but there is reason to believe that when it comes to both banking, insurance, telecommunications, postal services and road transport, Norwegian companies have lost large market shares over the years the agreement has worked. We see that the Post Office in Sweden is planning to delete 15,000 more. We see that Telenor in Norway is moving a department of information to another place, with the same number added. The only difference is that the new entrants do not have anything as simple as a pension agreement. The pension agreement is something we've been fighting for in Norway. He's been fighting labor for years. I wonder how the case-speaker and the Labour Party view this liberalisation and the consequence of this liberalisation for ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e177	There is nothing fundamentally new in the EEA Agreement. This thing that has appeared recently, that a new agreement is in progress because one has been traded with services, is quite historyless and actually wrong to claim. For there was something that dominated the debate early in the 1990s, there were the four freedoms, and the four freedoms were not a matter of trade in goods, as one might get the impression now. This has games in the cards. Then one can discuss the content of individual decisions taken in the EU, whether they are reasonable, and look at the individual issues. It will vary from party to party. But here we're trying to discuss the EEA Agreement, and those who signed the EEA Agreement also went in for her with the clear intention that here there would be decisions that we would disagree with, and that we might be able to negotiate, but that we most likely had to accept. That's how it will be. I believe that one should be horribly careful to say that foreign investment from Norwegian business is very unfortunate, as one might have the impression here, and that jobs, as suggested here, are being moved out of Norway because of the EEA Agreement. Now, you don't have a set of options for the EEA Agreement, and you might be very happy about that. However, it may as well be that one has been given new jobs into Norway because of the EEA agreements, that it has prevented relocation, because it has been more likely to invest in Norway because of a European standard. It might as well be. It is not possible to calculate it exactly, but it should have the same amount in mind. It may also be that Norwegian companies have lost their participation in the internal market. It has also happened in many other countries. However, Norwegian companies have invested abroad, and have therefore also contributed to the creation of new jobs. It is not possible simply to say that the EEA Agreement leads to one or the other when it relates to investment in and out of Norway. We are in an area, and we have a guarantee that those who are going to invest in Norway have good framework conditions, and that we do not operate with our own legislation that allows us to use them, for example. WTO rules against Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e189	The representative of Blankenburg knows very well that he draws the centre party far too far when he suggests that we are not prepared to cancel the EEA Agreement. If he only reads the position carefully, he sees that it is quite clear that as a basis for cancelling the EEA Agreement we will do so and so, and we will have some investigations, in the knowledge that it needs to be a process to terminate the agreement. But our goal is very clear. We're not the only ones who have the idea that we should cancel the EEA Agreement. As mentioned above, the current head of the nutrition committee, Olav Akssen, has also pointed out that it is appropriate to withdraw from the EEA Agreement. He actually argues on the same lines as us, considering the EEA agreement as a housekeeper's contract. After all, Olav Aksensen is no one in the Workers' Party, and I must say that it is amazing if there are no more in the Workers' Party who have come to the same recognition, or at least have a hint of doubt about the excellence of this agreement. But it's not expressed in the setting behind the Workers' Party. It seems to me that honesty is losing momentum to help Norway enter the EU as quickly as possible. Therefore, my question becomes to the representative Blankenburg whether he can confirm that it is precisely the tactic behind the handling of the EEA Agreement by the Workers' Party and not a real assessment of the content of the agreement and the consequences for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e196	I'm always impressed with those who are able to make their own arguments real, factual, and the others to tactic, their own arguments for honesty, and the others to dishonesty. There is a kind of debate that rarely brings something particularly positive with it. What Olav Aksenssen pointed to is the same as a majority in the Committee points out that there have been dramatic changes in the EU since the EEA Agreement was signed and that there is reason to shed a critical light on the agreements. But what we're saying is that we don't have an alternative to the EEA Agreement. It's the one at the bottom. And despite the fact that the terms of the agreements have become worse in some areas, the agreements operate in the area in which they should actually apply, simply to guarantee that we are part of an internal market that makes it troubling for the Norwegian economy out in Europe, so that those who want to invest in Norway know what they have to do, so that one knows that Norway does not operate with certain types of state aid – one can operate with State aid within the rules that apply to the whole of Europe. In this area, the agreements work, and thus the agreements also work well on the core areas. We could have wished Norway had more impact of course, but we have not. That is also what we conclude about in this setting. We're going through these problems, we're going quite systematically, I think, but we're going to conclude that on the core areas the agreement works well. That's what's at stake. And we haven't seen the alternatives to the EEA Agreement. These are very difficult to imagine. An option that has begun to drift around is the Swiss option, which is such that a negotiator for years, thus starting new negotiations, has no guarantee that the legislation will be implemented in line with what is going to be common arrangements. If you're going to talk about housekeepers' contracts, I think the option that the Center Party is looking at is one that looks more like it than what the EEA Agreement is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e205	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e208	In the context of the ratification of the EEA Agreement in 1992, the Right underlined that the agreement is essential for Norwegian industry’s access to the EU internal market, with equal competition rules, but that it will never become anything other than an intermediate road to full membership. Our position was linked to our view of international cooperation. In the 1992 vote, the Right-wing Representatives stated: ‘The national State is increasingly facing the challenge of influencing decisions taken outside national policy forums, which nevertheless have an impact on domestic conditions. It will be the task of the national State to fill this ‘democratic deficit’ through binding international cooperation.’;» Further: ‘By participating in internationally committed cooperation, Norway may regain its right of self-determination.’ Globalisation and development in the EU after 1994 have strengthened this trend. More and more decisions, both political and economic, taken outside Norway’s borders, have a direct impact on Norwegian citizens and businesses. The same applies to developments in international research and technology. The reason is that both Norwegian citizens in general and Norwegian business are part of globalisation and operate more and more internationally. This applies to all of our major industries, such as: oil, gas, seafood and shipping. Other smaller industries also depend on what happens internationally. It is therefore quite wrong to present it as if Norwegian decision-makers are longing to sit at meetings with all the others in Brussels for their own sake. In the interests of Norwegian citizens and Norwegian businesses, it is important to exercise influence and to participate in the participation of others. So after eight years of the EEA agreement, we stick to our original position. Eight years of the EEA Agreement have shown even more clearly that it is very demanding for Norway to recover from the democratic deficit without being a participant in the decision-making process. In relation to developments in the EU, Norway can only secure voting rights and influence by becoming a full member. However, we must state that the political situation in the opinion and in the Stortinget makes it clear that we do not believe it has anything to do with putting the membership issue on the agenda now. However, the right will contribute to a debate on the EU’s development and impact on Norway. The Government’s main message about the EEA Agreement is a good starting point for such a debate. There is no doubt that developments in the EU are creating new challenges for the EEA Agreement. The Cooperation Manager himself points to a large number of them in the message. They are widely available in areas that are not covered by the EEA Agreement and that it was never intended to cover. Nevertheless, there is reason to point out that the management of the agreement itself has become more problematic. It has two aspects in particular: a change in the relationship between the two pillars of the agreement and a change in the EU's attention to the emerging Member States. The government itself refers to the consequences of this. There has been a trend that the EU will not accept ESA approval to be effective in the EU as well. The imbalance between EFTA and the EU also results in the reservation right, or the right of veto, granted by the EEA Agreement on paper, becoming a less attractive right to the weakest party to the agreement. The ongoing consultation process that we were proposed in the agreement has not been given the scope that was foreseen, the political dialogue is limited, and we are now meeting less understanding than before in relation to our specific needs. However, a bilateral free trade agreement with the EU would have been an even worse starting point for finding compromise solutions with the EU. The EEA, after all, ensures a phase of negotiation if there is disagreement between EFTA and the EU. The EEA Agreement is also unique because it establishes its own monitoring and judicial system which determines cases of possible breaches of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement also ensures that the parties apply sanctions such as criminal duty and anti-dumping measures against each other in a conflict. With a free trade agreement, we leave to the EU, as former speakers, to fully assess whether Norway is operating with anti-competitive measures or State aid, or to create barriers to trade. What we risk losing is not primarily duty-free access, but more importantly: a level playing field and predictability of Norwegian business. There is little doubt that the enlargement of the EU will put the two-pillar system under further pressure. So it becomes even more demanding than it has now been, to reach across the EU, even in cases where we believe we have the EEA Agreement text on our side in any dispute. The steel case, where the EU broke the EEA Agreement and looked at Norway as any third country, is an example of a type of problem we must be prepared to face. These changes underline the need for good governance and effective follow-up to the EEA Agreement in order to support the image of Norway as a serious partner. It will be wrong to see it as an expression of the spirit of the housekeeper or excessive effort that Norway is now almost the European champion in the implementation of the EU directive. It is important to work on this, because it is in Norwegian interest. The attention we can gain in the EU system by waiting for all deadlines is not of great value, to say it carefully. However, the extensive changes in cooperation within the EU — both in scale and form — mean that the EEA system is the only basis for taking care of Norwegian interests. We are e.g. need to create a single Norwegian link to the Lisbon Strategy and to implement measures that will allow Norwegian business to keep up with developments there. The unilateral action taken by the EU to make the EU area more competitive may, in the long term, weaken the principle of non-discriminatory competition throughout the EEA territory. The measures outlined by the Government in its European Policy Platform to link us to the Lisbon process are therefore very important in order to provide the basis and conditions for the EEA Agreement. The government has brought the debate on the future of Europe – or the so-called Convention debate – to Norway with great merit. The EU is preparing major Treaty changes through the Convention in 2004. Giscard d'Estaing, who heads the work of the Convention, recently presented the preliminary framework for a constitutional treaty. Further institutional developments in the EU will have an impact on Norway and the EEA – regardless of the membership issue. Through contributions to the ARENA conference on the theme and by organising a dedicated conference on Nordic perspectives for the future of Europe, the Government actively contributes to disseminating information on the debate currently taking place in the EU countries and in the candidate countries. At both conferences, however, Norwegian policymakers sparkled with their absence. It is a fact that the EEA Agreement does not meet the needs of Norwegian fishing industries for safe market access to the EU. Norwegian exports of seafood to the EU in 2001 amounted to approximately DKK 17 billion, or 55 pst. of total Norwegian exports of seafood. The export share measured in value has been reduced from 63 pst. in 1998, but the EU remains the main market for Norwegian exporters of seafood. In particular, salmon exports have been reduced. The reasons for the reduction are several: increased marketing work in other and new markets, increased purchasing power in Asia and Russia, etc. However, the sometimes poor market access to the EU must take its share of the blame. Norwegian seafood industry for the rest meets both customs duties and a complex system of duty-free quotas and different rules of origin in the EU. This has also contributed to the channelling of a falling part of Norwegian maritime food exports to the EU. The applicant countries of the EU have become increasingly important markets for Norwegian exporters in the last decade. With a growth in purchasing power in the ACs similar to that experienced by Portugal and Spain when they became EU members, the EU as a market for Norwegian seafood could double over a decade. Herring and mackerel are clearly the most important products, but exports of salmon are also in progress. This shows the importance of the negotiations that Norway is now entering into with the EU. The aim is to compensate for the loss of current duty-free market access in the candidate countries. There will be no doubt a tough negotiating task. The EU has been through difficult negotiations with the candidate countries in the east, and I think it would be wise for us at the start of these negotiations to take on board the enormous increase in eastern enlargement for the EU countries. One might ask why the majority in the UK, despite the challenges faced by the EEA Agreement, is sticking to it. The agreement gives us limited access to EU policy processes, both those affecting the internal market and those affecting other policy framework conditions for Norway. However, the EEA Agreement is so important for Norwegian business interests that we cannot be the only one. It's probably going to be repeated in this debate, but the whole 70 pst. Norwegian exports thus go to this market. There are tens of thousands of Norwegian jobs we are talking about by taking care of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e264	The Commission has indicated that it will not base WTO legislation now on enlargement. We may find ourselves in a situation where Norwegian fishing licenses in the new EU countries are linked to Norwegian fishing resources or are entitled to purchase Norwegian fishing boats. By law, fishermen cannot sell their boats. Now we've done it in Norway for many years – we, the general, have given the fishermen that right. There will be a big difference between whether these owners, who will then be passive, will be in Ålesund or in Austevoll, or whether they will be in Madrid. This would violate the principle of the Participant Act, and it would violate the principle that fishermen should participate in the fall of marine resources. How does the Right view the entry of foreign owners into the vessel’s side of the Norwegian fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e269	The starting point for the negotiations now under way in Norway is the disappearance of the duty-free market access we have to the candidate countries of the EU. The duty-free market access is now lost when they enter the EU, and we are then going to negotiations to compensate for the loss. That is the starting point for our negotiations. I think we should decide on the negotiating mandate with which the European Union had to come up when it exists. It doesn't. There are many speculations and preliminary assessments of what the negotiating mandate contains, in Norwegian newspapers at present, but I think we are wise to wait for what the final negotiating mandate will be. We will also have the opportunity to do so through the usual consultation arrangements with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e276	The EEA Agreement has changed dramatically since 1994. It now intervenes in district policy, and it intervenes in how we handle and control our natural resources. In 1994, or rather in 1992, when this was negotiated, it was said quite explicitly that we could maintain the concession laws. It was also explicitly said that we could maintain the differentiated employer fee. The point here is that the agreement has become somewhat different from the one adopted in 1992. In 1992, no one knew what the scope of this agreement would actually be in 2002. My question to the representative Christiansen is then whether the Right sees it as constitutionally problematic that the EEA Agreement has become a different agreement from what the Stortinget agreed to, and that it does so per. Today is actually an agreement that Stortinget has never agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e283	The right is simply in disagreement with the Central Party in the assessment that the EEA Agreement has become different and that it has gone beyond the contract concluded by the Stortinget. However, there is no doubt that the EEA Agreement is a dynamic agreement that still incorporates new legislation applicable to the common internal market. Some may also feel that it is too low to be dynamic, since, at least yet, it has not taken into account Treaty changes made by the EU side, which creates some inequality between the two pillars of the EU Agreement. The EEA Agreement may only work as intended if developments in the EU can be reflected in decisions of the EEA Committee and that is what is happening. It is only in that way that our exporters of goods and services can be guaranteed safe market access based on common rules and a level playing field throughout the EEA territory. The EEA Agreement framework is set out in a number of major documents. It is within those frameworks that the EEA Agreement develops by decisions taken in the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e290	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e293	The EEA Agreement, from being an agreement that, according to some, would be a temporary hold while we were waiting for something else, has become our anchor fastening to the EU. There are no problems with finding shortcomings and inadequacies in the EEA Agreement. They're there in a bunch, and they're well listed in the message. Nor is it a problem to admit that on certain points the EEA Agreement has been disappointing and less fulfilled expectations. In particular, this may relate to overall political cooperation between EFTA EEA countries and the EU. In recent years, the EU has shown relatively little interest from the highest level in using EEA bodies. So the challenges and the shortcomings are there. But what's the alternative? What is the second possibility for us to be continually included in the internal market? The only real option, namely EU membership, is not current. It has been decided by the Norwegian people, and it must be respected. When it's ruled out, at least within a pretty clear time frame, you can start to analyze if not the case is that we're sitting with a very good deal. No other non-EU country is as well harmonised with the internal market as the three EFTA States that are in the EEA. Even Switzerland's bilateral agreement with the EU has significant shortcomings in relation to the EEA Agreement. It should be noted that it has taken Switzerland almost ten years to establish an agreement with the EU. In fact, Switzerland's "agreement" is more modern in some areas, but the whole structure is such that it will in future be difficult to respond to the changes that will take place in the EU in a satisfactory way. However, although the directives adopted in the EU are being implemented continuously in Norway, and in this way we maintain a harmony between the Norwegian market and the EU market, it is not such that the EEA Agreement is adapted to the changes that have taken place. The text of the Treaty itself, the text underpinning the work of the ESA and of the EFTA Court, has not been subject to any facelift since it was written in the early 1990s. This means that important issues that were adopted, inter alia: in Maastricht and Amsterdam, is not part of the EEA, while it has become part of the Treaty establishing the European Union. If this persists over time, the EEA Agreement could quickly become less relevant and lose some of its impact. It is therefore important that we have the opportunity to update or upgrade the entire agreement as soon as possible. The point is that the agreement should be modern and consistent with relevant EU treaties. We note that neither EFTA, which in this case means Norway, nor the EU has been sufficiently committed to having the EEA Agreement revised before the enlargement of the EU. Thus, we are in a situation where future changes in the EEA are most likely to take place through a ratification process in 25 EU countries. That is a matter of concern and uncertainty as to whether it will at all be possible to bring about the necessary modernisation of the EEA. Lack of interest and attention in particular from the EU vis-à-vis the EEA is worrying. It provides a basis for assessing the need for further efforts by EFTA and Norway in relation to the EU institutions and EU countries to inform them of what the EEA is. EFTA-wide information activities are now under way in relation to the EU candidate country. This is important, but there are issues whether existing EU countries should also be given priority in the field of EEA information. The Progress Party believes that a move could be to strengthen the competence and resources of the EU and EEA at the Norwegian embassies in the EU capitals. It is well and good that we are heavily represented in Brussels, but it is, after all, in the capitals of the most important decisions to be taken, and still where the decision-makers are sitting. The EEA Agreement is broad and thus covers many sectors and industries, but mainly does not cover fish and agriculture. Of course, this has to do with some national circumstances, which were decisive when Norway refused full membership in 1972 and 1994. But both in relation to agricultural products, and not least in relation to fish, we are totally dependent on having reasonably good conditions for trade with the EU. Today's situation is far from ideal. Much should have been better, and without any change in the conditions, enlargement of the EU will exacerbate the situation, at least for our fish exports. Today's free trade with the candidate countries will cease, and it is uncertain whether we will be compensated for this loss. We have clear interests in opening up free trade in fish. Similarly, the EU has an interest in liberalising import protection for a number of agricultural products. The change in import protection will, of course, mean changes in Norwegian agricultural policy and thus have consequences, but structural changes in agricultural policy should have been implemented a long time ago. Given the commercial leakage we have to our neighbouring countries, the need for change is great. In addition to our national change needs, likely WTO demands for change come within a relatively short period of time. All of this should suggest that the Government should now seize the opportunity to link the negotiations with fish and agriculture in order to obtain benefits for one of our most important industries, namely the fishing industry. It's all about putting the interests of our future industry fish, first. It will, as the Progress Party sees it, give the largest number in terms of safer jobs and improved economy, not least in Coastal Norway. If we do not take this link, we risk meeting with demands to open our fishing fleet to EU ownership, with the corresponding release of resources. This is not a recommended way to go and will not be in Norway’s interest, not least as long as the EU is at a stage when they are trying to get a new fisheries policy out of control, which hopefully is far better than today’s rather failed policy. What is now referred to as the EEA quota is also a future negotiating theme, not least updated by today’s press release in the Evening Post. From being a contribution that was strictly not supposed to be there, and as something Norway tried to wind up at the previous crossroads, I now register that Bondevik has already been in Brussels and promised an increase in the so-called quota, which today accounts for approx. 200 million. kr annually. Why this quota should be there, and not least why it should be increased, is something incomprehensible to me, except that I fully understand that the EU needs and wants more money, not least in the context of the forthcoming enlargement. However, a renewed quota contract should now be directly linked to our areas of interest, not least fish, thus ensuring better conditions than today. Norway cannot be the rich cousin of the EU who is funding a lot of fun, but is not even allowed to participate. Now it may seem that in the context of enlargement, the European Union would like to have a fissure layer, and we are thus a natural fissure partner. But when the result of the splinter is to be consumed, we are politely told to eat at home. Yes, we have decided that we should not be in the European Union, but that does not mean that we should have a position where we are holding the hat in our hand and look at the festivities without even demanding our fair share, not least the part for which we pay. One can slowly get along well and say that it is not useful, we are small and the EU is large, but I do not think we should ignore that Norway is a major European player in important areas such as energy and fish. In addition, Norwegian diplomacy has shown that they have incredible negotiating skills, most recently shown in Johannesburg. That's why there's every reason to demand a lot and bet high. In such a commitment, we recommend to the Government to develop a comprehensive negotiating strategy, where the various themes are linked in a larger package and what is most important for Norway to achieve. The enlargement of the EU will, in principle, also lead to an enlargement of the EEA. This is not an automatic process, and it requires negotiations. The time may now appear to be a button for setting up an agreement that ensures parallel expansion. We will be careful to warn against a situation where the enlargement of the EEA is delayed in relation to EU enlargement. We think it could have very negative consequences for the whole EEA cooperation, which may already seem quite lost. Finally, a brief comment on the possible threats of the EU Commissions to scrape the EEA Agreement unless Norway provides billions. This I choose to interpret provisionally as a positioning in relation to future negotiations. But it's a clear expression that we don't necessarily get any benefits of good behavior and a good reputation alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e314	First, a small comment on the comments of the Progress Party in the vote, that the EEA countries in EFTA must request negotiations on the update of the EEA Agreement as soon as possible. However, as indicated in the Communication, the EEA countries in EFTA have explored the possibility of implementing a so-called update of the EEA Agreement. However, the European Commission has concluded that such negotiations are not relevant now in the context of the enlargement of the EU, simply because the EU does not have the capacity to negotiate with the EEA when negotiating with the candidate countries. However, the government says that their assessment is that the Commission’s reaction does not prevent a possible update of the agreement after the enlargement negotiations have been completed, so one question is why the Progress Party again addresses this when it is so clearly clarified in the big message what reactions the EEA countries have received from the Commission at this point. The Progress Party is committed to making tough demands for the EU, and I agree with the Progress Party in that. But I also notice that the Progress Party sees how the imbalance between the two pillars of the EEA Agreement has developed since the agreement was concluded, that enlargement will further strengthen this imbalance. My question to the Progress Party is: What are the consequences of this development? Is it one consequence that we will see an emerging EU debate in the Progress Party, or will the Progress Party continue to refrain from having an idea of what kind of relationship to the EU is best served by Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e321	I'll do the last one first. With regard to the form of association with the EU and the attitude of the Progress Party on this matter, I have responded to the previous question in this Chamber. Our position on this issue is that each member and the board of trust in the Progress Party must settle with themselves what you think is best. So we have a very open attitude here. The issue of imbalance is real. We are going to take it seriously, and it cannot be underestimated in any way, but if it alone would lead to a new EU debate, I am uncertain. Rather, we will see what comes out of this after the forthcoming negotiations, for example. as a result of the enlargement of the EU. Of course, we are aware that it is not realistic to get an update of the EEA Agreement now before the enlargement comes into force, if it follows the timetable set. At the same time, we record that there were signals from the Commission, quite correctly, that you did not see yourself able to start any negotiations. Nor do we interpret the interests of getting this done by the EFTA side as overwhelming. We felt this was a pleasant position from several parties. Nevertheless, we think it is right to get in position now and get our negotiating strategy also clear on this point, so that we can start negotiations as soon as possible with enlargement as possible. The longer we wait, the harder we think it is to get an update of the agreement. This has something to do with being realistic, but at the same time ongoing, and the impact I mentioned, among other things. in relation to the EU capitals, this will be of particular importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e330	The Progress Party has been and is in favour of the EEA Agreement, and I really don't find it very strange, because the Progress Party is the main defender of the market economy. With the EEA Agreement as a driving force, Norway is moving in a more liberal direction. Competition, outsourcing and free movement are the overriding concerns of the internal market. SV is opposed to market liberalism, for example: because it leads to less popular governance, greater differences in society, a more unsafe society. In this society, some and many losers win, and the biggest losers are the ones standing at the bottom of the rank ladder, just the ones that the Progress Party usually says they're a hot defender of. When I look at the objectives of the instruments in the internal market, it's like reading the Progress Party's principal programme: the release of capital, less popular governance and increased competition. According to our concepts, the EEA Agreement is not only a slope plan into the EU, but also a free fall into the Progress Party's basic programme. With ESA's reinterpretation of the EEA Agreement, we see that the Progress Party does not get an impact on the Stortinget, can nevertheless become Norwegian policy, with ESA as a top judge. A good example of that is the obligation to live. The Progress Party made a proposal to abolish the obligation to live in our place of residence, but was discouraged. Øystein Hedstrom comforted that when ESA goes through the legislation in this area, it might be introduced anyway. I am absolutely sure that Morten Höglund disagrees with my description of the liberalist society and its effects. That's not what I'm asking about either. My question is this: Does Morten Höglund agree that the Party will be assisted by the EEA Agreement and the ESA to implement the policy of the Party, and is this why the Party is so strongly defending the agreement? The second is that one will have an upgrade to the EEA Agreement because one has received Amsterdam and Maastricht and the Union. I would like an extension of what you want to upgrade in the direction of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e339	Here one can be tempted to engage in a broad ideological debate. I have no problem seeing that, with our EEA membership, we may be contributing to the liquidation of some strange schemes, such as: the obligation to live, and we think that is positive. The fact that our position on the EEA Agreement alone should be justified by this and that we have such arrangements terminated is not correct. There is a broad consensus here in Stortinget that we need a proper agreement with our main trading partner and clear framework conditions in relation to this. So this we get from the Progress Party take as a plus on the purchase, and we have no problem with it. Now it's not like we see the European Union as a liberal mecca – far from it – and I think that debate we should have liked to have taken. It becomes for us a whole, where we feel that the EEA is the best way we can manage our relations with the European Union. And then we see that in some areas Norway has acted in relation to some planning economic principles that we find it natural that we wind up, and that through the EEA Agreement, the EU is involved in ensuring that this happens more quickly than otherwise would have happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e346	If Höglund had answered the last question, he could also have added that by bringing with him the Treaty of Amsterdam, among other things. the social dimension of cooperation would become much stronger. This is an informational to SV that asked Høglund about it. The problem with what Høglund says in his article, connecting with what is in the setting, is not only that he in a way defines a negotiating arrangement for the Government that we are asking for one to come back to later, but he is involved – if people out in Europe had listened to what was said – in strengthening the idea of Norway as a slightly greedy, rich monopolistic on the ice edge, which only thinks about itself and does not want to contribute to European development. It is not complicated at all that the Prime Minister has said that Norway should contribute. On the contrary, it is important that the Prime Minister has said that Norway should contribute, and then a debate on how much and in what way Norway should contribute to this. That's the starting point, but no longer should a go either by connecting or by saying how much. But it is brilliant that Norway has said that it wants to contribute to the great challenge facing Europe. In that case, you should not say, as the Progress Party says in the setting, that you should avoid too many workers coming from the new Member States. They say they're going to try to get an exception. First of all, there is no way of exempting people from the new Member States from free movement, while, of course, it should be too old. There is an impossibility and a terrible signal to send out, because we just want to be able to say that these new countries are part of Europe, and then I also thought that the Progress Party should use this opportunity to say that this also wants the Progress Party – and not send out a signal that they want to see a part of this area of cooperation as a B area, as a B-working force that can give rise to the same dishes as the others in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e355	It is right that I forgot to answer the question relating to Amsterdam and Maastricht from the representative of Valle. The framework for EEA cooperation has been laid down. So the elements in Amsterdam and Maastricht that go beyond these frameworks – if you were concerned about it – it is obviously not natural to include in an EEA agreement. However, it also has something to do with making the texts of the Treaties as equal as possible, so that, among other things, the EFTA Court: is to be judged in cases, there is a level playing field for enterprises in the EFTA part and in the EU part of the EEA area. To the representative Blankenburg: Yes, we acknowledge that we have to pay something. But what I reacted to was that Bondevik went out and signaled a few months ago that we would accept an increase in the quota. That we're going to contribute is reasonable, but if Bondevik's play here was tricked, I'm questioning it. In the case of a freer labour market in the EEA, we do not question that principle. What we call for in the form of a note are transitional arrangements. Norway, as a small country throughout this cooperation, is clearly vulnerable and vulnerable. The inclusion of ten new Member States in one jaf leads to certain pressures, and the free labour market is one of them. It is not an opinion that we should have permanent exceptions to this – far from it – but that we should gradually adapt to this over some time. That is what that comment is supposed to point out, and not what the representative of Blankenborg has just suggested, that we should be opposed to the free labour market in the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e366	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e369	The EEA is the answer to the next two questions: How have we used opportunities outside the EU? What have we used no for? It is clear that there may be many answers, but above all, we have used this to adapt to the EU. We also have a monitoring body, ESA, that refuses to conduct its own policies. And in Norway, there is a great need to pursue a differentiated district policy, to pursue a policy that we have worked up through generations. It would not be difficult to be more positive to the EEA and to the EU if they had had the standards we have tried to fight in Norway when it relates to the environment, when it applies to workers' rights, when it relates to unemployment, etc. There is one element of democracy and democracy in the EEA Agreement: reservation law, veto law. We're not using it. Not even on the most elementary areas where it really goes on principle with us, we want to use it. We could at least use him to test whether the People's Government worked. In the committee, we've had a lot of people listening. It has been interesting, because there is a division between youth organisations, between environmental organisations, and those who want a more effective society, the competition community. So here we are at the intersection of what kind of society we really want. I saw, myself, an example from a small municipality where one simply took and privatized the renovation. There was no problem. One got rid of two people who were superfluous. They were directly transferred to the Norwegian social budget, at disability, and have no job to go to. They don't have a everyday life where they feel they matter. It's not dangerous as long as we have a social system that can do this. But it's a shame we're going to do it. It would have been much better if they had been in work, and if perhaps the municipality or the private had moved on, but without the unlikely efficiency requirements that lie in the fact that one should have all sorts of freedom. A little about this that we should not discuss what the Commission and the EU signal about negotiations. Obviously, you can stay away from it. But we must dare to see that within our most important industry, the fishing industry, there is a great leap, and perhaps the greatest leap is going on with ideology. We're breaking up what's a social contract between crew and an active fishing fleet rider. That is why the Norwegian fishing fleet has been the best in the world. Someone calls it founders and employees together. In More, we call it -- at least some of us -- for moresocialism, for people to keep up, for people to work and drift at sea in an effective way, if there's a deal that there's equal rights for everyone. By the way, the fishing lottery is the only form of socialism that works in practice, and which is there, for which divides one, one gets out of action. Now we're going to break this up. We're going to take my right, the right every right that sits here in the hall, has, – Ola and Kari's dishes, eelmenta's dishes to the fish resources. They're going out on the stock exchange. We've been accepting this for a long time. We've seen fishing fraud, that they've made it the practice they've had. Now this might be sold. Maybe there should be completely different people, completely different places in the world, who are going to dispose of our future. These things we have to dare to record. If we can hold on to the dishes we have there, that they should be under the rule of the people, that they should not be sold on the stock exchange, we will take care of any of the things that are Norway. And there are expectations of shareholders in Norway. We see that then one sold out in the ring nut, took a surplus there and invested in the future industry breeding. With what we see today when they sell out – and it could be a man in a small place that sells out for 80 million. SEK, – 80 million. kr is fun to have an account – the money is no longer being invested in the districts. They might as well be invested in Mallorca. Another example is 120 million. kr, which is invested on the stock exchange in New York. They are not plaguing back to the small district communities. Then it's that we have to start yelling a warning here in the Storting: what does it do to the all-man's right to be indebted to the sea? Because when the money disappears, the basis for the social contract that has always been between fishes, crews and nests, and between rural communities, and giving the right to others. The Storting Communication provides a clear overview of what the EEA Agreement covers, how the agreement is structured, how it is amended and how the Norwegian administration works on EEA matters. It provides, in so far as it does not systematically assess eight years of experience with the EEA Agreement based on a review of benefits and disadvantages in different areas. The Communication says little about the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norwegian society, on the economy, on employment, in districts. The EEA Agreement means that we lose the freedom to act over a broad register of instruments. We would have scrapped the oil and gas directives outside the EEA. Outside the EEA, we would have dropped following the EEA rules for missions in the North Sea and for deliveries to the North Sea. Outside the EEA, we would have scrapped the EEA Public Procurement and Construction Regulations. In other words, outside the EEA, we could have, on a free basis, assessed the time available and what kind of supply – EEA, Nordic, Norwegian – was desirable in the individual case. Private companies do. They're evaluating what's likely, depending on what they're looking at, whether they're putting things on offer or not. Outside the EEA, we could have passed on the system with a graduated employer's fee. We could have graduated more than today – if that's what we wanted. We could have kept up all of our concession laws, including the right of return for power plants. Outside the EEA, Norwegian banks and insurance companies did not need to have lost market share on the Norwegian market. We see that the financial and banking markets are in a double role here. During the 1994 EU fight, a ‘yes to the EU’ newspaper, or ‘yes to the EU’, suddenly said that it was hostile to buying. There were some Swedes who wanted to buy the Romesdal Joint Bank to slaughter him. When we really saw the consequences of the market, when we saw how he worked, it was suddenly hostile. Fortunately, Romsdal's Fellow Bank was not bought and laid out for all the world, he was preserved as he was. Outside the EEA, we could have free-standing rules on gender equality that no EU rules could set aside. The notification states that trade with the EU has grown strongly since 1994. However, trade outside the EEA area has grown even stronger. This means that since 1994, there has been a relative distortion of Norwegian trade towards non-EEA countries. This distortion from the EU shows that Norway has a rather robust commercial policy situation. The background is, of course, that trade with the EU was liberalised before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. The trade agreements of 1973 gave the export industry essentially the same market access to the EU market as the EEA Agreement. There was therefore no reason why the EEA Agreement would turn our external trade further towards the EU. The Notice of Initiation indicates that, when Stortinget approved the EEA Agreement in October 1992, it was considered that: ‘The EEA rules did not prevent the maintenance of non-discriminatory restrictions on capital movements, such as concession arrangements that do not discriminate between Nordics and non-residents. The background to this view was inter alia correspondence between the EFTA countries and the Commission, where the Commission stated that, in their view, non-discriminatory arrangements could not be considered to be contrary to the rules on the free movement of capital.» As stated in the Storing Communication, there have been no formal changes to the EEA rules on free capital movements since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. In spite of this, ESA has worked on a number of issues based on the fact that a series of Norwegian laws on ownership and concession arrangements are contrary to the EEA Agreement, even if they do not discriminate between Nordics and non-residents. It applies to the acquisition law, to the rules on the acquisition of water rights and to the rules on ownership of financial institutions, the obligations to pay, the obligations to pay and the obligations to operate in the case of the purchase of agricultural property of a certain size. There is a fundamental limit that is now passed when the search light is directed towards pure domestic arrangements. And there's nothing we're doing just in Norway. The reason for an e.g. in Denmark, small Denmark, is obliged to pay, is that they had been bought if they had not had it. Germany and other countries had purchased all of Denmark because of attractive coastline osb. – they had been purchased in a very short time. The EEA Agreement we now see the outlines of, has never been discussed, and is therefore not approved by the Stortinget. Enlargement of the EU with new Member States will face major challenges both for new and for old Member States. Countries entering the EU are linked by their own social development to a system that promotes a growth economy in which free competition across borders is to give the fastest possible growth. The growth economy is increasing the fundamental environmental problems – that is what we are receiving feedback from environmental organisations and limiting the lack of development efforts that have been unique to Europe. I will deal with the proposal from the Central Party and SV that is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e406	Bjørn Jacobsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e411	First, a wish, and it is that SV does not act as the European Commission's megaphone to promote their interests and views at the opening of some negotiations, where they have their positions and Norway certainly has their own. The second is that it may not be so good to use the EU country Denmark as an example of how the rules on compulsory education can work well, when at the same time it says that the EU rules are suffocating Norway. Clean up these arguments a little bit, so it says that separate better! I have a question about this concern for countries that either refuse to join or are not invited to join the EU, as the SV and the Central Party have in the setting, where one should take special responsibility for these countries. Is it the case that we are dealing/purchasing a particular amount of goods from non-EU countries? In what way should a person do that? What kind of country is this about? Honor be Ukraine and Moldova, but the trade potential is currently quite limited. If this is the option for Norwegian business, it is, in any case, fairly limited in the short term. But the most fundamental question I ask for is that the representative Jacobsen spends the most time answering: One says that without the EEA agreement Norway could do so and so, but what kind of international cooperation is that SV wants? Is it so that all countries in Europe themselves should decide what kind of schemes they should have for example? State aid, purchase? In Norway we can say no, not buy-in, but in Sweden we can buy. Is it the case that every country has to pay its own? Are we going to go back to the so-called national right of self-determination and the complete chaos? Does it not see the need to have an order in European cooperation, that it is a great advantage for all? It is said that one is against the EEA, but once in a while, one has to try to present what one has as an idea for its Europe. It would also be useful for us to get with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e426	I mention Denmark as an example — I could take an example of many other countries where there is a real need for protectionism, in order to protect themselves. The fact that it also applies to EU countries does not prevent it, but it shows that very many countries will need to have their own arrangements and to protect themselves from local circumstances. So to this with responsibility for non-participating countries. Several of the search countries may actually say no. That's supposed to be a referendum in every country. We have had two experiences with this, so we must at least not ignore the fact that there may be countries that say no and that will, of course, be standing outside. From this point of view, we believe that if this should happen, Norway – as we are also outside and have experience in it – must take special care of these countries. Otherwise, it would just be missing! Blankenborg then asked for order in European cooperation. Order and order -- it's not like one of you is outside the Union, it's not too good. Norway is part of a lot of international organisations, we are part of the Council of Europe osb. Blankenborg also knows well that even if we are outside the Union, we are very much in Europe. The Labour Party and the Right currently have an enormous need to drive to discuss a membership that no one else is interested in, and the Labour Party operates and fights Right because they are in a government where they have an agreement that they should not deal with this. Rather, let us have a proper European debate on the content of the Union, which concerns professional justice, environmental law and trying to strangle a little of the capitalism that is spreading within the Union. We should like to join in that debate. And it also contributes to the creation of order in the Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e437	The representative Jacobsen is not very happy in capitalism – it's not hard to understand. Nevertheless, I hear a concern that it will not be invested and reinvested enough from Norwegian business in Norway. That's right. The Nordic economy in the mainland invested six times more abroad in 2001 than it did in 1994. It's a fact that SV should stay a little bit, and a development they might want to try to look a little bit for the reasons for. With regard to the fishing industry, SV should listen to representatives from the industry themselves, who now point out that the industry is being marginalised – to quote the fisheries director of Sogn and Fjordane, the neighbouring member of the representative: ‘The crazy thing is that either the prices of the catch and rearing must be reduced to the equivalent of the high krone price, or the fish will be delivered directly to the rest of the world. We're now almost down to zero when it comes to processing fish nationally." Some of us know some of the reasons why, among other things. that it is terribly difficult to fit processed fish products into the Union market. SV has, as they write in the note, programmed that they will work to ‘replace’ the EEA Agreement. So SV has programmed to cancel the EEA Agreement. They mention, in the context of the conclusion of the bilateral agreements with the EU – agreements that had expired on the date before they were ratified, leading to Switzerland being again negotiating with the EU. My question is: why does the Swedish Government now ask the Government to investigate the consequences of cancelling the EEA Agreement, and why do they ask the Government to investigate alternatives to the EEA Agreement once they have already programmed to cancel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e453	First a little bit to this about capital. The problem is that there is too little risk capital in Norway today – it goes out. This includes: because the main institutions for many of the banking and financial services are no longer located in Norway. We're moving these services out. That's why we're e.g. I'm so glad that in the valley of Rome we have Romsdal's joint bank, because we know that when they sit there, it's easier for business to call the bank manager. It has to do with old, good contacts. But it is clear that even Aker/Smoking-owned companies on the Romsdal coast have problems getting risk capital, because of course capital goes to cheap labour. We could of course move after, but then there wouldn't be anything in Norway again. So there was a question of currency. It's -- I'm almost sad to say -- the right who is in government and controls the interest rate policy, and who is not willing to use the travel cap that we politicians could have used here in this room. We have left this to Norway's Bank, because we know that interest rates are not specific enough in relation to e.g. to help the furniture industry, the shipyard and also the export of fish. These industries do not require a high interest rate. It is the over-consumption, it is the luxury consumption or, as Kåre Willoch says, «rover capitalism», that requires high interest rates. The reason why we are asking the Government to settle the consequences of cancelling the EEA Agreement is that we can then have a serious relationship with this, that the Government should be able to work on this, and that it can be submitted to us in Stortinget, so that we can assess it. There will then be a more serious debate and a more serious proposal than if we were only proposed by a blank vote. Then we would get a basis to do it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e462	I think it is very appealing that SV now wants a basis for the position they have had for a long time, and that they have confidence that the Government is able to provide the basis that SV is obviously not able to produce. It was really a question that was asked by Haakon Blankenburg, I felt the need to follow up a little bit. I registered that Jacobsen had problems coming up with a concrete answer to what it really is the minority comment is aiming for when you say that ‘Norway should take a specific responsibility for developing cooperation arrangements with countries that are either not offered membership or choose to refuse membership’. With regard to refusing membership, I have understood so far that SV is also of the opinion that it is desirable that the EU enlargement take place. But if you're now in two minds about it and maybe really don't want it to happen, it'll be useful to get it clear. When you listen to the representative Jacobsen, he sounds like a one-man seminar, with relatively crackling slogans, so it's not quite easy to get a grip on what he really means in that context. However, the second wording, countries that are not offered membership, is a fairly precise wording. There is one country that is clearly in that situation, and that is Turkey. Turkey agrees with Norway that they are a member of NATO and not a member of the EU. If Turkey is to bet on developing close trade and political cooperation, it will be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e474	I would first like to thank the representative for teaching me some geography. I could use that sometimes. When it comes to countries that are not offered membership, there are a lot of countries, and that Norway would take care of them, there is nothing wrong with it. The reason why we have taken this into account is that there are, in fact, possibilities even if countries do not join the Union. There is also a long life outside the Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e481	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e484	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that we have now received an annual report on EEA cooperation. This is the first notification covering the entire period for which the EEA Agreement has been in force. It gives us an opportunity to assess EEA cooperation and see what effect this has on Norway. The EEA Agreement is the most comprehensive agreement Norway has ever concluded and is the cornerstone of Norway’s relationship with the EU. It is therefore important that the EEA Agreement functions and exploits effectively. An attempt is being made by several teams to produce the EEA Agreement as less and less valuable and that it does not work according to their intentions. But this is not the conclusion of the Communication. On the other hand, this notification confirms the proper functioning of the contract in the areas it is intended to cover. The agreement has proved robust and functional. The starting point of the EEA Agreement was to make the EEA/EFTA countries part of the EU internal market. It's done. The agreement has contributed to the good Norwegian economy and export growth by providing a secure and good platform for Norwegian business market access to the EU internal market. After eight years of experience, we know that Norwegian businesses have almost equivalent access to the EU single market as their European counterparts. It is a very central point for Norwegian business. The Agreement has strengthened trade and economic relations between the Contracting Parties with a level playing field and compliance with the same rules. The free movement of goods and services, persons and capital has been achieved and this is practised in a good manner. In the interests of free movement of goods, a common and comprehensive set of rules has been sought. A fundamental prerequisite for this was to take into account, inter alia: to the environment, health, safety and consumer interests. Have you so clearly taken this into account? Norway’s adaptation to EU rules on health, safety and the environment has been extensive. In fact, most of these changes have led to Norway raising its standards. Environmental work has improved. The basis for achieving the highest possible level of protection has been improved in the last 15 years by strengthening environmental considerations in the Treaties. Bellona informed, at the hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committee, that the EU has carried out even more on the environmental side than is already apparent in the Communication and that the EU has had a significant positive impact on Norway’s environmental legislation. The EU legal acts have provided Norway with a better environment because provisions with stricter requirements have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement and because the EU imposes stricter standards of protection in countries around us that affect the environmental situation in Norway. In the environmental areas where Norway had a higher level of protection than the EU — in particular the chemical field — Norway negotiated transitional arrangements in order to maintain its high level. The EU has now improved its legislation and obtained rules similar to those of Norway. We also see cooperation between the EEA/EFTA countries and the EU on research and development, education, consumer protection and social policy growing and delivering good results. This is not least evident in relation to programme cooperation, which has been growing strongly in recent years. This cooperation is considered very positive from the Norwegian side. Experience with the agreement shows that there has been no strong or harmful increase in labour immigration from the EEA area, some of which were afraid, but has given the Nordics the opportunity to take training or gain valuable professional experience in the EEA country. In general, the EEA Agreement has also had a positive effect on the districts of Norway. A significant proportion of the Norwegian export industry is located in the districts. A level playing field with our main trading partners increases predictability, avoids dumping and, through increased competition, gives a driving force to better exploit the resources and efficiency of production. In this way, the EEA Agreement has helped to ensure the nutrient basis and housing in districts. The EEA Agreement has its limitations. There's no reason to hide. EU cooperation has changed considerably since the signature of the EEA Agreement in 1992. New areas of cooperation and new forms of cooperation are becoming increasingly important. It is important to be aware here that the new cooperation is largely in areas not covered by the EEA Agreement and that it has never been intended to cover. The Communication states that the EU has shown, at the Commission, some less ability and willingness to use time and resources to keep EEA/EFTA countries constantly informed and less understanding of delays from the same country in adopting new EEA-relevant legislation. In order to remedy this situation, the Government has therefore placed a great deal of emphasis on implementing measures to strengthen its work on EEA matters and to improve contact with business and civil society actors. We will actively exploit the opportunities offered by the agreement to Norwegian experts and Norwegian authorities for participation and influence in EU processes, as well as Norway’s full participation in EEA and EFTA bodies. In this context, it is also important to exploit large industrial companies, regional authorities and non-governmental organisations active and directly involved in lobbying or information work in relation to the EU. The Communication also states that the EU is more restrictive in its desire to ensure national adaptations. It is important to be aware that this applies in general, including the EU Member States. Therefore, the desire to ensure a level playing field in the implementation of legislation is not just a matter for the EEA/EFTA countries. A majority of the Committee has stated that the restrictions outlined above do not constitute a basis for saying that the developments outlined have affected Norwegian interests in specific cases. Nor does the notification provide any basis for such a conclusion. It states that although the EEA/EFTA countries have a modest influence on the design of EEA legislation, there are rarely major difficulties in accepting the outcome of the process. The result is usually a qualitative improvement in legislation. The notification also provides examples of active Norwegian participation having influenced and influenced the outcome of the decisions. Cooperation requires all participating countries to be prepared to take action to find common solutions, otherwise it will all crumble in an insurmountable stream of national specific provisions. It would open up a protectionism, where not least the small countries become victims. That doesn't mean we have to accept everything. However, sometimes important considerations may indicate that a country has to say no and ask for an exception. The EEA Agreement authorises the use of veto in such cases. The Christian People's Party is willing to use this when necessary, but it must be used with discretion. The most difficult issue with the EEA Agreement is perhaps the issue of market access for fish. The EEA Agreement does not cover the EEA" Fisheries Policy, and the management of Norwegian fishing resources is therefore a national matter. It is important to be aware that the EEA Agreement has provided some improvements in market access. Some species of fish such as cod, hay, halibut and bluefish have duty-free access to the EU market. Although no tolls were granted on products such as salmon, mackerel, herring, shrimp, pectinidae and marine crustaceans, the customs duties for all other products were reduced by approx. 30 pst. of the initial level. For total fish exports to the EU of nearly 17 billion dollars in 2001, a total of 2 psts were paid. and 3 pst. customs duties on this export value. EU enlargement may be the result of difficulties for Norway in terms of fish. New Member States with which Norway currently has a free trade agreement for fishery products will be covered by the EEA Agreement and the rules applicable to fish exports to the Union market. The government will therefore negotiate compensatory arrangements with the EU in order to find the best possible solution to this problem when appropriate. I also want to say a little about the SVS and the Central Party's desire to explore alternatives to the EEA. It is the Stortinget that has decided to submit an annual notice of work with the EEA and therefore does not consider alternatives to the EEA Agreement. However, I would like to point out that at present there is little that seems to be an alternative to the EEA. Today, the EEA Agreement is our main link with the EU as long as this government is in power. The EEA has given Norway greater transparency and influence than was the case with the trade agreement. With today's content, the EEA Agreement is not a bad deal. Knut Almestad, president of ESA from 1994 until last year, says to the evening post on 23 October this year that if we were to have similar negotiations today, these would result in a worse result. We in Norway must innovate that when we engage in international economic cooperation, we must necessarily also accept international rules of play. International agreements between different partners have the disadvantage that the emergence of disagreements can often be the strongest in the end. So are our free trade agreements with the EU. Some parties believe that we will be served with a Swiss-type contract model rather than the EEA agreement. The centre party has been talking here about democratic deficits and loss of self-determination. Then I wonder if they have actually studied this agreement, whether they have assessed what would happen if there was disagreement between the parties. If you see this for Switzerland, the result is quite discouraging. In the EEA Agreement, the parties to the Agreement may be accused of breach of contract, and the case shall be decided by judicial means and by independent bodies and courts. Several issues of major domestic policy significance are currently being addressed by ESA. Many of these issues concern the most traditional links with national policies, regional policy instruments, national ownership and resource management. In Norway, this has led to the questioning of the role of ESA. There is no evidence to claim that the EEA/EFTA countries are treated more stringently than the Commission is treating EU countries. A study conducted by Arena, the researchers Graver and Sverdrup, concludes. The EEA Agreement has proved robust enough to withstand major changes in EFTA participation. This reflects a mutual interest in continuing the close, open cooperation entailed by the EEA Agreement. We should not hide the challenges of the agreement, but we should also show the strength of the agreement. There are many who have predicted that the EEA would fail, but the Christian People's Party has been right, the agreement is life-creating – it is underlined in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e527	The Christian People's Party should have all the credit that they are still against the EU, keep a government together and still stand against the EU. To date, I have been involved in this with the rule of peoples and the possibility of democracy within the EEA. It is clear that the right of reservation gives us the opportunity in Norway to show way when it comes to environmental, health and safety requirements, and the EU cannot prevent us from doing so, as one can prevent the Member States. At the same time, we can contribute to the ongoing debate in the European Union on improving the space for environmental and health concerns, and in the long term the aim should be to reverse the internal market, so that environmental, health and safety concerns are given priority over the provision of goods, free movement of capital, etc., because then we are talking about the content of the Union. In the long term, perhaps the EEA could actually approach more a general free trade agreement. So we've asked the government to figure out these things, so not everything is going to be completely static. My question to the representative Rise is: how will the Christian People's Party work in order for us to make more use of democracy, represented by the right of reservation we have, but not use, in the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e534	When we get honey ourselves, we can give some honey too. I get to give the honor to SV because they have been very good at pointing out problems related to the EEA Agreement. But it can almost seem as if Bjørn Jacobsen has not read all the positive things about how the EEA agreement has worked for Norway, when he points to the many degrees of problems that have arisen. That's actually not right. We see that the main conclusion in the Communication is that the EEA Agreement has been very good for Norway, it has been robust, and it has primarily ensured a level playing field for Norwegian industry and guaranteed market access so that we can export for several hundred billion dollars a year. We have not been told what SV thinks will be the consequences for jobs in the districts if you are going to go into what SV wants. Now it's a little bit fuzzy, as it's come out here. The government is asked to investigate alternatives in order to provide a basis for what SV should think. We know – at least it sounds like this – that SV is in favour of repealing the EEA Agreement, and I wonder why it has not been proposed. There is no proposal here where SV asks to cancel the EEA Agreement, and I wonder why not. As far as the right of reservation is concerned, it is important to us, not least for constitutional reasons. But we are not bound by any new legal acts unless we are included in the EEA Committee's decisions. And as Bjørn Jacobsen knows, we also have bodies in this house that discuss all decisions in the EEA Committee. We can be pleased that it has not been necessary to veto the EEA Committee. There is no objective in itself to use the right of reservation, it would be an emergency solution. We believe that international cooperation is based on compromise, and we must not look blindly at solutions in individual matters; it is the whole thing that counts. I have to say that it is just the ability to think completely I miss at SV. You pick out some individual negative consequences, but then you don't come up with any alternative yourself, and I'm asking for that from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e541	The representative Rise says that there are no alternatives to the EEA Agreement. Now it could actually be like this, if it's right as it says in newspapers today, that the EU can suddenly give us an alternative to the EEA Agreement. In any case, it is suggested that the European Commission will consider terminating the EEA Agreement if we are not kind enough boys and girls in the class. And then for a party that does not want to enter the EU, it would just be very wise to be involved in looking at the alternatives to the EEA Agreement. For the Central Party, it is difficult to understand how to say no to EU membership as a party, but yes to the EEA agreement that we see today. We did not understand it in 1992. But it is even more difficult to understand today how these positions are compatible when we see how this agreement has evolved. Now we have an agreement that intervenes in district policy. Now I just heard the representative Rise pay tribute to the importance of the EEA Agreement to the districts. I very much disagree with that, and not least when we are now faced with a situation in which we must, after all, give way to our most important regional policy instrument traditionally, namely the differentiated employer's fee. We now have an agreement where we see that we need to continually reduce our own control of natural resources. We have an agreement that threatens equality policy. We also have an agreement that covers areas that have traditionally been important to the Christian People's Party, such as: alcohol policy. Now, because the EFTA Court has so decided, the gunpowder is to be sent to shops. There is one area where the agreement intervenes, which has traditionally been important for the Christian People's Party. Another area is the more fundamental ethical issues. We now have an agreement that, according to judgment, will also include the Life Patents Directive – ethically problematic, with great damage also to developing countries. So my question to Lars Rise is, is there no limit to the loyalty of the Christian People's Party to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e555	Ida, there are limits. But I expressed in my previous reply that I am pleased that it has not been necessary so far to exercise the right of reservation. I get to say the same thing to the representative Haga as to the representative Jacobsen, that it would be nice to read the message and take inward all the good and positive effects the EEA agreement has had for Norway over these eight years also for the districts. I did not say that there are no alternatives to the EEA Agreement. What I said was that we can't see that the SV and neither the Senterpartiet have an alternative to the EEA Agreement. Now it is probably pointing to a Swiss solution – it seems that Switzerland has become the new ideal country for SV and perhaps also for the Center Party – but it is quite clear that Switzerland is in a very difficult situation. Switzerland, on the one hand, and the EU, on the other, and the EU Commission is monitoring the agreement between the two. So one of the parties has about all the power and authority. There can be no good situation for Norway to get into. So the representative Haga says that it is completely incomprehensible that a party that does not want to enter the EU could say yes to the EEA. This did not understand the Central Party in 1992, and still does not understand it. But the Central Party has actually been in a government where it has at least understood that it is possible to govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement. I note that there is also no proposal from the Central Party to terminate the EEA Agreement. I wonder why not? Why has not the Central Party proposed to terminate the EEA Agreement? Does this mean that the Center Party is a little bit slippery, and is it about to accept the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e564	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e567	Through eight years of operation, the EEA Agreement has contributed to Norway’s systematic transfer of power from its own elected bodies to the EU. The agreement has limited the ability to pursue Norwegian maritime policy and has led to a ‘legalisation’ of policy, which creates demise. Nor have Norwegian politicians and authorities been able to take advantage of the potential for influence that Norway actually has under the EEA Agreement, including the EEA Agreement. by refusing to use the right of reservation granted by the contract by the majority of the population. The EEA General Government message is an empty duty exercise. It is chemically purified for analysis and indicates no direction for the EU policy of the Government. There is neither disgust nor willingness to discuss the challenges facing the Norwegian People's Council of the EEA Agreement and the extent to which the agreement intervenes in Norwegian society. The centre party lacks a recognition that the EEA Agreement has become quite different and far more extensive than anyone had imagined when it was adopted in 1992. The EEA Agreement was intended as a transitional arrangement by those who negotiated the Agreement in due course. It was meant to apply until people had corrected the ‘error’ that occurred when people voted no in 1972. Now, fortunately, people held on to no from 1972 also in 1994. But we have become attached to an agreement that was not meant to be a permanent agreement at all. As a transitional arrangement for full membership, the agreement would be good. Like a long-term deal, it's an accident. The negative consequences of the agreement are reinforced year by year. There are two main problems with the agreement. Firstly, the EEA Agreement has become a frontier-free agreement through continuous re-interpretation. Secondly, the agreement obliges Norway to enter into an agreement with Autopilot without any significant influence on it. The best examples of the fact that the EEA Agreement has become a frontier-free agreement are that the agreement now intervenes in district policy and our control of natural resources. The differentiated employer’s fee is recognised as one of our most effective district policy instruments. The EU requires the removal of the scheme. The President of the EFTA Surveillance Authority announces that the conversion will take place. It says about several hundred million dollars for industries in Norwegian districts when the scheme is to be revised in 2003. We can "bring our own district policy, including a differentiated employer's fee", said then Municipal Minister Gunnar Berge to the Evening Post in 1994. So you can take it wrong. The example shows how the dynamic agreement works in practice. With all possible respect for the large number of people who said yes to the EEA Agreement in 1992, I would just as fully argue that the majority did not see the extent in the long term of the agreement that was adopted. In other words, you really didn't know what you said yes to. When the Stortinget approved the EEA Agreement in 1992, it was assumed – and Jacobsen has done so in the past – that: ‘The EEA rules did not prevent the maintenance of non-discriminatory restrictions on capital movements, such as concession arrangements that do not discriminate between Nordics and non-residents’. Despite the fact that there are no formal changes in the EEA rules on free movement of capital, ESA has in a number of cases taken as a starting point that a series of Norwegian laws on ownership and concession arrangements are contrary to the EEA Agreement, despite the fact that they do not discriminate between Nordics and non-residents. This applies to the acquisition law, to the rules on the acquisition of waterfall rights, to the rules on ownership of financial institutions, to the housing obligation for the purchase of all-year-old dwellings in some coastal municipalities and to the obligation to live and operate in the case of the purchase of agricultural property of a certain size. There is no doubt that a fundamental limit has passed when the search light is directed towards purely domestic arrangements, and that the EEA agreement we are now dealing with has never been discussed and has not been approved by Stortinget. The center part is amazed that this ratio is not reflected by the current bulk of the population. Everyone acknowledges that Norway has limited influence on the design of legislation that we are obliged to incorporate into Norwegian law. This was reflected in the large number of people with open eyes at the time of the adoption of the agreement. However, there is reason to point out that the fact that the agreement is poor does not mean that one should not exploit the possibilities which, after all, exist for influence in the contract. Full use of the agreement requires Norwegian dealers – in the more than 200 working groups in which we are involved – to have clear mandates, sound professional competence and sufficient experience from international negotiations. It's the government's job to make sure the craft is good enough. However, the use of the agreement also requires that Norwegians have sufficient navigability to dare climb the barricades and defend Norwegian interests in the same way that other countries defend their interests. I get the periodic impression that the Government is so afraid of making conflicts with the EU system visible that there is not enough toughness in negotiations. This is devastating for Norwegian interests and misunderstandings with regard to an EU system that is seaworthy, but which at least understands politics. In addition to this, the EEA Agreement provides for a right of reservation. The existence of the right of reservation was used as a central argument that Norway could accept the EEA Agreement in 1992. We remember Gro Harlem Brundtland's emphasis on the fact that the right to reserve has been negotiated in order to be used. The right of reservation is, as you know, never used. It has not been used despite the fact that there have been several cases in which a total size has said that it would be unfortunate to introduce the directives in Norway. It concerns, as we know, the Food Mining Directives and the Babysitting Directive. The fear of using the right of reservation makes the EEA Agreement even more of a housekeeper's contract than it would otherwise have been. Most EU directives that have raised concerns in Norway concern health, the environment and safety. These have also been controversial in the EU. Some countries have voted against the directives. There will therefore be a great chance of finding strong alliances within the EU by reserving for directives that weaken the environment, health and safety, and the EU will have difficulties in introducing countermeasures. Such use of the right of reservation would have an impact not only on Norway but also on other countries. Both the yes-page and the no-page in Norway believe that the EEA Agreement is a bad agreement for Norway. Then we should do something with it. Time is ripe for finding another form of agreement with the EU. This is usually possible. Switzerland has negotiated an agreement after the adoption of the EEA Agreement. However, finding another form of agreement with the EU will certainly require political courage, and that will require political will – a courage and a will that we regret not to be found in this Chamber today. The centre party wishes to terminate the EEA Agreement. There's no doubt about it. To do that, a process is needed, and that's what we're talking about in the suggestions presented in the setting. The lack of willingness to do something about the EEA Agreement may change. Norway will enter into several negotiation processes with the EU which will illustrate the dynamics and democratic deficit of the agreement, but which will also illustrate that the agreement is under pressure. On the one hand, the negotiations that will take place and will take place for months to come are about as central areas for Norway as agriculture, fish, relations with the new EU Member States and perhaps a quota of billions. In view of the importance of these negotiations for Norway, the Centre Party considers it essential that Norway has a well-prepared and comprehensive negotiating arrangement. This negotiating arrangement should be briefed on by the Stortinget, and the Central Party therefore requests that the Minister of Foreign Affairs inform the Stortinget as quickly as possible in an appropriate manner. I do not conceal that we perceive the orientation as required by the signals given by the Government that a waits for EU negotiating games to have thought-out demands in areas where Norway has clear interests. The centre party is concerned about this passive attitude. We have also recorded through the press that negotiating positions are being held in Brussels, for example. to address the EU’s requirement to open up foreign ownership of Norwegian fishing vessels. The government has refuted correctly that this is part of a Norwegian negotiating arrangement per year. Today, but the Center Party is not sure if there is a comprehensive negotiating arrangement at all. If, in fact, there is a negotiating arrangement, it is all the more worrying that proposals not included in it should be aired in Brussels. The conclusion is that, based on the uncertainty that has arisen, it will be useful and necessary for Stortinget to be briefed on how the Government will deal with all the negotiation processes that are now involved with the EU. I hope the Foreign Minister will answer this in a positive way later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e615	The Storting had a visit to the Swiss Foreign Committee some time ago. We were told that Switzerland had been negotiating with the EU for 10 years about an agreement that had been partially out of date when it came into force. The agreement is without institutions capable of ensuring legal unity in matters of competition and State aid. This does not ensure predictability and security of business and investment. Here, in reality, the European Union has all the power. But Switzerland’s agreement involves large-scale legislative adaptation. When the Central Party now refers to Switzerland's bilateral agreement with the EU in its suspension, and Åslaug Haga actually does so in its submission, does this mean that the Central Party has now actually understood that it is necessary and useful to follow regulatory developments in the EU and that EU alignment is no longer a lead for the Centre Party? And finally, I noticed that Bjørn Jacobsen did not respond to Blankenborg's question about SV's vision for cooperation in Europe, so I will now repeat the question to Åslaug Haga: What is the vision of the Central Party for Norway's role in a dynamic and collaborative Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e622	If the representative Eyeågen listens, which I suppose she intends to do later, she will hear that what I have said in my post is that I primarily use Switzerland’s agreement as an example of the fact that there is a country that has actually negotiated a contract with the EU other than the EEA Agreement, and that has been done since Norway negotiated its EEA Agreement. It illustrates that it is actually possible to enter into dialogue with the EU on forms of agreement other than our EEA Agreement, and it is important to underline. Because what we are constantly hearing from the EEA members is that there are no alternatives, but there are alternatives. So I'm not saying we're going to copy the Swiss agreement. What I note is that the EU has accepted that a country has obtained an agreement that does not bind this country as strongly and directly to the EU as our EEA Agreement does. I also note that it is an agreement that does not have a judicial mechanism, which I regard as very important. So there was the Central Party vision of cooperation in Europe. The centre party has great, strong and clear visions of cooperation in Europe, a continent that should cooperate in ways that countries on other continents should also cooperate. It is maritimely fully possible to cooperate well and closely within the framework of the nation-state. That's what you've traditionally done, and it's still possible to do that. And that cooperation can be developed through various forms of contract work. But it is therefore fully possible to cooperate closely and well in important areas of action without thereby choosing to enter into a Union, a Union that we now see as being intended to make even closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e631	Will and courage are excellent qualities, and I understand that the representative Haga believes he has a surplus of both. That's excellent. Memory is also a characteristic that is sometimes useful, and not all the world has long since the representative Haga himself was a member of a government that based his European policy on the EEA Agreement. If the representative Haga really believes seriously in what she herself says, that today we have an EEA agreement to which the Storting has not taken a stand, then it must be allowed to ask if there is something that is fragmented new after the Central Party has left the government. Or was it the same when the Central Party put in government and based Europe policy on the EEA Agreement? I think it is with respect to report that you should be a little more careful about which claims you buy from No to the EU and serve over the Stockholm Chair. Of course, today’s EEA agreement is Norway, an agreement that has been approved by Stortinget in a very common way. And there are none of the objections that are being raised today to the EEA Agreement, which I have not heard for ten years. The exact same objections and the exact same debate were raised at the beginning of the 1990s. The vision of the Central Party for Europe is the Europe of the nation states. As far as I was aware, the representative Haga also thought that we should learn from other continents when it comes to finding suitable forms of cooperation. It might be interesting to hear which continents the Center Party will use as an example in that context. But more importantly, it had to be heard, again with reference to memory, if the representative Haga does not know that this has been tried in Europe, even in human memory. That was actually the prescription you had up to 1939. There have been some things after the time that may have caused most others to stick their finger in the ground. It would be useful if the Center Party did the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e645	It's true, as the representative of Wage says, that the Centre Party has both the will and the courage, and is something that plagues us, it's the true destiny that, not least, this hall is periodically hampered in ample monn. It is interesting to see that there are now signs that we may suddenly have to deal with a whole new reality in relation to the EEA Agreement. Yes, I have been in and sitting close to a government based on the EEA Agreement. I should say that was not easy for the Central Party, but we made it clear immediately after the adoption of the EEA Agreement, that at least we should not allow the Stortinget and this agreement to prevent us from sitting in government. When we entered into a government cooperation based on the EEA Agreement with open eyes, we also acknowledged that we had to follow the rules contained in the agreement, but it did not prevent us from having completely different ambitions about what our relationship with the EU should be like. I didn't say, the representative of Wage, on which you quoted me, that we can learn from other continents. I said that Europe, as on other continents, should cooperate closely through the mechanisms established on the basis of the nation state. Yes, a lot has happened in Europe over the last 60–70–80 years, which you were in. I think the main reason why we haven't had war in Europe, which is what you're suggesting, for that number of years, is essentially that we've constantly developed our democracies and systems based on human rights. That is probably much more of the reason than having established some overall political Union ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e656	The President must remind such an experienced debater as Haga that the President is to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e659	I'm a little surprised by the representative Hagas correcting my question about comparison with other continents, because her clarification confirms my point, and I must therefore be allowed to repeat the question: on which continents are you cooperating so closely and well, as the representative Haga refers to? Is that Africa? Is it Asia, or what continent? Because it is indirectly in that reference to close cooperation on other continents, an indication that it would be a good idea for Europe too. It also makes me ask another question, because I have understood so far that, like other parties in this Chamber, the Centre Party considers EU enlargement desirable for Europe and Norway, and that the Centre Party can therefore also imagine that Norway should contribute to some degree to the success of EU enlargement. However, when you listen to Hagas’ argumentation, it goes quite the opposite way, because she actually argues that the European Union should rather be liquidated, and that Europe should go back to the situation before the European integration process began after the Second World War. That is why I have to ask my question one more time: does the representative Haga seriously believe that all that has been pursued in Europe after the experience of 1939-45 has been a blind lead, and that one really had a glittering model until 1939, based on the maritime law of the nation states? Is this the Central Party option?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e667	When it comes to cooperation on other continents, I don't want to say it per. Today, a continent that cooperates well enough and in a way that I think is good for global development. As I have said from this speaker, unusually many times: those of us who choose to take a global perspective believe that there should be cooperation between national states at regional level within a number of frameworks, and then political energy should be focused mainly on developing global cooperation mechanisms. We should do that not least because we live in a globalized world of good and bad. The globalised world demands that we cooperate more than ever at the global level. Then we need to be able to deal with political energy and also to address what is new problems, the new global problems, and not to choose to use the political energy, which is being too much done in Europe, to develop the European cooperation mechanism. I believe that it is at the expense of what is the most important thing, to establish good, international, well-functioning driving rules. Whether a Europe would have been better without an EU is not a debate that I am taking in a line change. This is a big and demanding debate. But I'm a realist enough to admit that we have an EU, and that's what I'm dealing with. When there are questions about the relationship with enlargement – starting with the fact that, yes, there is an EU, and yes, there are candidate countries that want to enter the EU – it must be up to those Member States to say whether they want to participate in that cooperation, whether there is a cooperation that they really want. But it is our starting point that countries have to decide whether they want to be part of the Union project or whether they want to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e674	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e677	The communication we are discussing today provides a clear overview of developments in the EU and the adaptations to EU legislation that Norway has accepted. In the light of the comments made by the Committee, the Coastal Party agrees with the minority comments of the Centre Party and the SV and at the same time advises its support for their proposals. In particular, it is important to stress that there is a contradiction between the EEA Agreement and the proposal that the Government investigates alternatives to the EEA Agreement. For our part, we would like to make it clear that a purely free trade option should be explored which does not involve the granting of national power over natural resources, businesses and properties, and which does not involve the free movement of persons. The Agreement should also ensure that Norway can use the necessary national instruments to secure its districts and primary industries. Such an alternative is clearly different from the cooperation model established between the EU and Switzerland. One of the main problems for Norway in the EEA is that we have a business structure that is quite different from that of EU countries. Thus, the adaptation of EU rules could easily harm Norwegian interests. Norway is a major exporter of oil and gas and, in this context, will have a greater interest with oil exporting countries than with the EU, which is a major importer of oil and gas. Norway is in control of huge sea areas. Our exports of fish products generate large revenues that benefit the Norwegian community. The EU imports fish and is interested in accessing resources in the Norwegian seas. In the fisheries sector, Norway should invest more in cooperation with the Nordic countries outside the EU, namely Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. The point must be to maximise access to the EU market and other markets without specifying control of the resources. The EEA Agreement is initially inappropriate as a model for international cooperation. In particular, it is problematic for Norway to have to adapt to EU rules without contributing to the definition of these rules. As a result, a large democratic deficit arises. This is particularly evident in transnational cooperation between countries that initially have a different industrial structure and where the strength relationship between countries is very different. The Coastal Party will work for an international trade regime that strengthens the autonomy of each country over its natural resources. In this context, the EEA is a part of history’s scrap heap. The Coastal Party considers it noteworthy that a communication that so much focuses on how the EU strengthens its own competitiveness does not also address Norway’s challenges and opportunities and what governments have done or failed to do to facilitate Norwegian industry’s optimum competitive conditions under EEA law. Industrialisation in Europe started with heavy investment in road and rail, ensuring good communications in a densely populated market where industry, culture and educational institutions grew together. This still characterises the EU and is a strength for both nutrition and knowledge and cultural development. In Norway, the picture is different. The fish in the sea has always been important to our economy, and because the sea was our most important trajectory, our industry was developed along the coast and in the fjords, while the administrative, cultural and educational centre of gravity lies in the capital, far from the value creation areas. Where values are produced, there was no heavy investment in knowledge, culture, roads and roads that could provide better communication between regions. Our land-based infrastructure is worse than any other European country. It provides exports based on road or track severe competitive disadvantages. It is striking that we have billions to put in the pot to strengthen other countries both inside and outside the EU, while the lag for the maintenance of our own road and building capital is growing from day to day. SND funds have been used to build up Norwegian business abroad, while at the same time stimulating public framework conditions for the relocation of traditional industries. We need to find an independent, national strategy for how we want the country to be built. A prerequisite for making it possible is an EEA declaration. I also believe that Norway should join the Western Norse Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e703	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e706	The EEA Agreement is very important for Norway. It has ensured almost equal access to Norway’s nearest and most important market under equivalent conditions. The notification, and a broad majority, states that the agreement has proved robust and viable. It is important for Norway and Norwegian companies that the agreement is dynamic, so that legislation is developed in parallel with that in the EU. It is also essential that legislation is implemented and enforced uniformly throughout the EEA area and that the Agreement ensures that GATT/WTO is not used against each other within the scope of the Agreement. The EEA institutions, such as the EEA Committee, ESA and the Court of Justice, have served Norwegian interests. It is worth noting that harmonisation of legislation on health, safety, the environment and consumer protection has consistently raised Norwegian standards. This is very positive in my view. Even more positive is the fact that these are improvements that have taken place throughout the EEA area, which will include new Member States. Norway has benefited greatly from participating in EU programme cooperation in the EEA area. This applies in particular to research and development, but also to other areas such as: environment, education, social policy, health and working life. This cooperation allows Norwegian institutions to acquire new knowledge and new methodological developments. For industry, research cooperation is of great importance. I would also like to highlight the INTERREG programmes as positive cooperation projects. In key areas such as the veterinary agreement, Schengen, judicial and police cooperation and the field of foreign and security policy, Norway has sought and obtained appropriate solutions in the context of intergovernmental cooperation. However, the majority of the Committee points to a number of areas where our interests would have been better served by EU membership, as I see it. We have problems being seen and heard in the EU and problems getting into processes early enough. Norway is not an active participant in the wider and deeper development of European cooperation. We lack political influence, and we lack political involvement. Norway has a significant democratic deficit in relation to the EU. Problems will be exacerbated when the EU is enlarged. Norwegian interests will now become even more demanding when the EU is further expanded, with up to 10 new Member States. Nevertheless, it is very gratifying for peace and security in Europe, for economic and social development in the new countries and for the environment to allow more and more countries to join. Norwegian interests must and must also be safeguarded in this context. In particular, it is important to ensure a good framework for Norwegian fisheries and seafood even after the enlargement of the EU. Signals may indicate that negotiations with the EU can be demanding. In reality, we have only two choices, either a good EEA agreement or Norwegian EU membership. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Government on the forthcoming negotiations with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e723	Let me first note with satisfaction that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy agrees with the Government that the EEA Agreement has worked as it stands, and that it has proved to be a good agreement based on the strengths and limitations that we knew were there when the agreement was adopted in its time. It is such that I meet myself in the door of this case, in the sense that I was a member of both the Storting and the Foreign Affairs Committee when the agreement went through in the Stortinget in its time. For once in your life, it's a familiarity when you meet yourself at the door. The interesting thing about this debate is that the time we adopted the agreement, it was a strong mobilisation, not least against, great interest out there and a lot of concerns about what the EEA Agreement would entail. What we have now seen after eight years of business is that this agreement is widely accepted in the Norwegian community, and that both the Center Party and SV are struggling their lives to get some interest in the little resistance that they have to face to the agreement. It's in many ways the best proof that this is going very well. It is not surprising that very well has been done, because in many ways the EU and Norway have the same political thinking at the bottom. We are open, democratic market economies all over Western Europe, including Norway, and that is why we have done well. It's also true that in some areas things have actually gone better than you could expect. Gunhild Eyegen mentioned a few areas that are important. One is that in the environment, Norway has had to raise its standards in a number of areas, unlike all the no-since at the time. It is also interesting to note that cooperation beyond the four freedoms was quite extensive and positive. Now, of course, the message is pretty clear that here there are strengths and weaknesses, and I think we're just going to put on the table what they're made of. In this way, it is both uplifting and interesting that this debate has not been lost in individual matters, but in many ways has given a total summary of what it is all about. When Bjørn Jacobsen then learned that there are no assessments in the case, I have to say that yes, it is – on 104 pages through this message. Jacobsen's problem is that those assessments don't fit what he wanted out of this. There are, I think, some interesting questions raised in the debate. Höglund was well aware of the important information work being carried out around the EEA Agreement in Europe. I want to agree with you. It is now a major challenge for Norway to keep the awareness of the EEA Agreement at the top in all our co-operation countries. It's -- I'm sorry to say -- the difference between a two-pillar system, one consisting of 5 million people and the other, after enlargement, of virtually the rest of Europe, hundreds of hundreds of millions of people. That's why it's a big challenge for us to keep the awareness of this EEA agreement on top, as I said. But I can assure you that we are doing what we can for it, and it is always the case that EEA-related issues are important parts of the bilateral foreign policy talks we have with colleagues in Europe. For example, it is preparing the thinking about the negotiations we are about to enter into from the turn of the year and beyond with regard to enlargement, a preparation we have been working on for a long time, just to make our partners aware of what problems we are facing. But we must not underestimate the difficulty of this task. It must be done over and over again, not least because the agenda of the other Europeans is full of other and also important political challenges. There are some questions raised about negotiations, and I just want to say that I see a lot written in the newspapers about what positions should be or not be. There is no need to deal with a debate like this. I fully agree with the rapporteur's approach to these issues. On this we have a neat scheme. This is how the EU will soon be able to inform us of its negotiating positions. We will thus have a window up to the middle of spring to negotiate this, and I fully agree with Höglund that the agreements must be concluded so that we can expand the EEA and the EU at the same time. And the date of signing that's April 16th. That's the ultimate time on the other side. When Åslaug Haga has learned that we haven't thought through these questions, I wonder a little bit, to say it this way, because the government has kept the bodies of the Storting constantly informed about how we think, and we have also said from what time frames we work within. But now Åslaug Haga has specialized on strong statements on a thin basis before, and I just have to note that she does so again. To put it that way, there's a lot of irritation, because I think it's a bad political method. Åslaug Haga knows just as well as everyone else that there is a clean run from the Norwegian side on these questions. If she herself did not perceive it this way, it is her problem, and her problem alone. The representative, Höglund, was a bit critical of the Prime Minister’s suggestion that we had to and prepared to contribute to the development of the rest of the new candidate countries in Europe. I think it was right for the Prime Minister to say it that way. I think it is important not to be left with the impression that Norway is a country that should have only advantages, but that there are also questions about contributing. We've done that over a long time, and we've said we're ready to contribute here. I would like to mention that we also contribute in different contexts than in the EEA context. In economic terms, for example: the Norwegian contribution to the development of the Balkans, which is very much on the EU agenda, very important, and I think it is important to continue with this. So Norway is a country that also contributes to the common good, and it should just be missing with our economic spine. Otherwise, I will not go in and polemise against the proposals that have been promoted, just say that I think the debate has been a little interesting in that area. When the representative Jacobsen believes that a somewhat more serious basis is needed for the decisions already taken by SV, I will not try it out. But I don't think it's reasonable that the government should contribute to that SV is not able to fix it on its own. I also want to say about Åslaug Hagas' wish for global arrangements, that it has a lot to do with it. I absolutely agree with that. I just want to point out that in the area we are now talking about, which is about economic relations and trade, we have difficult WTO negotiations going on. It is possible that I am now unrelenting towards Åslaug Haga, but I have not seen her as a positive driver for the WTO negotiations. I have seen more clearly that there have been the problems in the WTO negotiations that have been central to the centre party's commitment. But I am pleased with the change of attitude that we are now being informed about. With regard to district policy, I just want to say one thing, namely that the problems with the EEA and districts are probably something different than that. The centre party has said. I have a very clear problem that the EEA does not solve for us, and this concerns unfortunately fish exports. I think in many ways it's one of the most important district policy problems we're facing. Of course, it needs a completely different solution from that of the Centre Party in this area, but it shows that the Centre Party has, to a large extent, a district policy where the starting point is passive measures and pessimism rather than defining offensive interests. And it's clear that the offensive interests in fish exports are one of the most important things we have in terms of the district side. Nor is it the Senterpartiet that has been the driver for Snow White, which is one of the biggest handshakes for district development in Norway in recent times. Some have been told that the EEA Agreement has become, as far as I understand, a new agreement that has not been discussed. I just want to join in what Julie Christiansen said in that area. The EEA Agreement is a dynamic agreement. The size has the bone on the ball each time this dynamics develops in the EEA Agreement, and there is a continuous discussion of the individual legal acts that are subsequently included in the agreement. The strength of the EEA Agreement is precisely that it has this dynamics that make it relevant also to new challenges. That's why the image you're trying to create in this area is simply not correct: it's an agreement you've never discussed, and it's not approved in the Stortinget either. It's not like that. Just through the way we have organised the EEA work in Stortinget, Stortinget is closely involved in how we further develop this EEA agreement. And so it's on the level of evolution. We must be very happy about that. I am very concerned about the ideas that some here have expressed, namely that the ideal for Norway is the product producing country from the 1960s onwards. That there is clearly no offensive interest in, for example: services, yes, it is really trying to make Norway a museum. I'll warn you against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e758	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite right to say that in some environmental areas, the EU and the EEA have adopted and raised the standard. The Combustion Directive is an example. But in the built-in Union with growth targets for all money, there is a major environmental problem that one gets growth without being based on the principle of bearer power. What I intend to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about is that Norway is missing out on support. We have submitted a proposal to establish a financial support system for organisations to improve their competence. What is particularly relevant these days is that our environmental organisations could have been involved in a few environmental programmes that the EU has. If Norway had paid the small membership quota underlying it, the environmental organisations in Norway could have freely applied for it and increased their competence. I therefore have a question for the Foreign Minister about these EU programmes, Life and Solo, they are certain to be called: Can the Foreign Minister look at this again, if possible, so that voluntary environmental organisations can search for funds there and participate with the other EU countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e765	There were questions of two slightly different dimensions. One was quite specific about applications for financial support to organisations. I just have to say that I over the table now won't distribute more money, not least now in the budgetary procedure, where I think it's coming for a day for someone and each that putting together a budget with plus and minus is not a simple matter. In such a situation, I will not distribute any additional money, so I have nothing more to say about it. The first question, however, is a very fundamental question of where to go with society simply. The question asked by Jacobsen goes far beyond the EEA Agreement as well. It is simply about what kind of international relations you should have, and what rules you should have. What Jacobsen now drew was a slightly vague picture of the different society, which has been out of fashion for quite a long time. It would be very interesting if you were to start redrawing the picture of such a different society, where you would have to live by completely different rules from those laid down in the EEA rules, but which in many ways cover the same basic political attitude that we would have had, even if we had had our relationship with Europe, such as that. the new candidate countries or Switzerland will have it. This is not specific to the EEA. But where that leads him in relation to the future government cooperation with the Workers' Party, it is quite interesting. Because that's very basic what he's asking about. There's something that tells me that Jacobsen is once again moving the party out into the outer space.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e774	We have been drivers to get a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, but we take absolute note that it is not now possible to do so. Among other things, the letters sent by the Commission have helped to lay the ball dead. However, the enlargement of the EU is now relatively close, at least if we are to believe the Danish Presidency of the European Union. Then, hopefully, the Commission will be in a different situation with regard to, for example: capacity. My challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that we are ready to move to the EU. I would therefore like to have the Foreign Minister's confirmation that Norway will work actively to get into the position that as soon as enlargement has come so far that the Commission is ready to sit down at the negotiating table with us, we are ready to do so. We want to press for a renegotiated, up-to-date and more modern EEA agreement. I am not going to extend it beyond at least to include the Treaty changes that are natural to be included in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e783	Negotiations with the EU in this context do mean three different things. One is the immediate conversations now about the consequences of enlargement. That must – as I have said earlier – come for a period after the negotiating mandate is clear, but before 16 April. I think we can say that we have a good overview of the issues that have to be addressed. I'm not saying that in any way it's going to be easy issues. It could be rough rounds. I would like to add what I said in my post in relation to what we hear around, and in relation to much of what is in the newspapers: it is not all the messages that will immediately be able to go together. Some hit each other in the heel. I think you're going to live by the good old rule that most of your concerns are going to be none of that. That's why it's natural to take that kind of trouble when we get into current negotiations. So to the question that Høglund now asked: When this is done – I understood him this way – what do we do? Here's two issues out and going. One is the purely technical update, which is far more a matter of cleanliness and suitability than a matter of substance. The second is to seek amendments to the EEA Agreement as such. We have to come back to that and evaluate it carefully. These include: It is important that we invite to negotiations that will give us a better EEA agreement, and that we do not then meet new questions that we might not have wanted to meet in the same way. We have to get back to that when we get that far. That's all reason to think very, very carefully through the steps we're going now. It is true that when it is to be negotiated, there are offensive interests on both sides. That means that both parties have to be ready to give. We just have to evaluate the total picture and not just what we want ourselves to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e795	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has made it a special exercise here in this Chamber to deny both my knowledge and my overview in the field of foreign policy. It's actually becoming a relatively festive collection of quotes. But I'm taking this with a crushing calm. Now the situation is that Norway is entering into difficult negotiations with the EU in a number of areas. We have very central interests in negotiations to take place in the area of fish and in the area of agriculture. We know that this has to change in relation to enlargement. We know we're going to negotiate a quota, probably in the billions class. It is to a great extent commendable that the Foreign Minister has a relaxed relationship with these negotiations. I am glad that he continues to express his control. But I hope we're not facing another special exercise here, which is that you don't have attitudes until you're forced to have them. I note that there is a waiting out of the European Union in these areas of negotiation. That's what we've been told in the bodies of the great thing, as it's called. I think it's a little surprising that from the Norwegian side you don't have a more offensive and comprehensive strategy for all the processes that you're about to enter into. I am also surprised that the positions of the apparent air in Brussels are not included in any comprehensive negotiating arrangements. In any case, there are so many doubts about how the government will deal with these matters in the future. Some of us have a problem. We therefore believe that it is necessary that we have a broader review of this in the bodies of the Storting, and that there will be a review that goes on far more than dates and promises of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e806	I don't recognize Åslaug Haga's judgements or her knowledge. I've only from time to time encouraged her to give some reasons, which she practically never gives. It always ends with ‘this is my assessment’ and ‘as far as I understand’, and it’s pretty airy things, because it’s quite obvious that the actual conditions are not pointing in that direction. That's what I was pointing at. If Åslaug Haga could be a little more generous in giving his reasons why she's come to her conclusions, I might think that the conclusions would look different, and we'd get a little more insight into the reasons. That's what's been very annoying, because throughout the year that's gone by, Haga has also been quite generous in pointing to and giving its very salty assessments, but has been relatively intrigued in giving reasons for these frame salt assessments. Then I ask the question, do they really have a foundation? - That's one of them. The other thing is, just to fix it, I don't have a relaxed relationship with the expansion negotiations. On the contrary, they are very difficult, as I have said. And as Haga is aware, we've also prepared the groundwork for many of the important questions to come up with. We've been doing that for a long time, and I think she's pretty familiar with that. It has also been covered in the press. What I have said is that there is a 'time' here which means that the negotiations are taking place on the dates I have mentioned, and the context of the issue is also such that we have both explained and will explain in detail in the bodies of the Storting about these kinds of things. It is actually so that Åslaug Haga may risk being heard almost before she has prayed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e815	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has had a tired tendency to spend the same amount of time explaining to the Stortinget why the Central Party and SV are so hopeless, which he uses to talk about his own policy. It's in and out of sin. In particular, it's a shame that he spends his time irritating himself about things like that he thinks the Center Party is uninterested in the WTO, because, incidentally, we don't have the same view of the WTO as he does. We have, of course, asked for both statements and an increased level of public debate, not least on the WTO. Then came the Foreign Minister with some accusations in relation to the representative Haga, that she should give a reason for concern regarding Norwegian negotiating positions and interests related to the forthcoming round, and not least in the relationship between agriculture and fish. Let me give you a reason why we're concerned about the government's ability to take care of Norwegian interests. Already in the autumn, the Norwegian authorities are already going through regulatory changes to significantly increase agricultural tolls. It is going to be so that one can enter Norway with cheese consumption equivalent to that of one person in four years, through new tolerations. This is happening at a time when the EU is tightening up just the same customs legislation that we are liberalising. My question is: why should we have shod away the possibilities that those who believe we should have linked agriculture and fish already in the autumn could have used to demand benefits in another area, namely fish? Why do we unilaterally choose to reduce customs duties on agricultural products from the Norwegian side without requiring a single system to go back on the fishing side, before we have gone into a negotiating situation related to enlargement, and before we are at all willing to tell the public what the mandate for these negotiating strategies should be? Can the Foreign Minister explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e826	I have developed the government's policy in this area on more than 104 pages of the message that is being processed, and I consider it read. Once I've posted my post as I've done, it's just to take up some of the jumping points that have been in this debate. It is possible that I have made too many visits to the Center Party. I can see that as a point. There might be other things I should be concentrating on than the posts that have come from the Center Party. But there were actually a couple of interesting things that were up, not least about structures. Because in order to have global solutions in terms of trade and economic cohesion, the actual WTO area is the point. We all know that the Central Party has been most concerned about what not to do in that area, not how to manage to push these negotiations forward. So this is a real point, that Marit Arnstad can't talk around. On agricultural matters, we now have negotiations with the EU, which we will have every two years after Protocol 19, which is a separate matter. It follows the EEA Agreements as they are now. The other measures the Storting had to adopt in this area will be adopted in full transparency. So I didn't see it as adding up to any other line in this area than what we've added up to. That's so much news, but it's an interesting news, if the Senter Party now signals that you should connect agriculture and fish. I think that is a rather interesting new twist, which you will have the opportunity to discuss in the bodies of the Storting if you are willing to do so. But I see that what we've wanted to do in the field of agriculture should get something to say for fish. That means a couple, and that's interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e837	In order to clarify any kind of misunderstanding, I will assure the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is by no means necessary to link agriculture and fish from the Central Party. But I understand that there is one thing that concerns many others here in the hall. I have heard statements from the Party of Advancement and signals from the Workers' Party – to the extent also from the Right – that this may be the case. It is on that basis that I would like to ask again: why does the Government make changes in the Norwegian agricultural customs rules in the autumn, so that we give unilateral concessions to the EU countries, without having asked for feedback on the fisheries side? Should it not have been expected by the Norwegian Government, so that the parties who want a coupling could have connected the two questions and perhaps got something back on the fishing ground? That's what I'm asking the Foreign Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e847	First of all, it is purely formal: I think I said Protocol 19. As far as I remember, it was Article 19. Sometimes you go mad at the formal things, but now it's fixed. So we didn't choose to do that. I thought that the assessments we have here in the field of agriculture are on an independent basis, and I understand that it is of those things the Central Party is pleased that we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e854	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e857	In today's Norwegian political picture, it happens that you have problems recognizing the Senter Party. There has been no problem in this debate. The centre party shall at all times be opposed to the forms of committed international cooperation in question and shall be subject to the forms of cooperation which are out-of-date. It's like it's used to being, and it's too reassuring. What's amazing is that the SV and the Central Party – when in this debate, which is otherwise, they act as a political limited liability company for the assessment of Norwegian foreign policy – actually have a run-up which is the only coherent black paint of the European Union and the EEA Agreement, but which concludes with a long list of proposals for investigations with which the Government wants to come to the Stortinget, and with an introduction that says that this is part of the work of the two parties to get Norway out of the EEA Agreement. When, as far as I have understood in this debate, the conclusion is clear to both parties that in any case they want Norway to leave the EEA Agreement, it might have been a little more in line with the surplus of courage and will that is claimed, if it had been proposed that the Stortinget take a decision on it. It seems strange, with respect to reporting, to want the Government’s investigation of a number of issues that already exist in the EEA Communication that the Stortinget is dealing with today, rather than promoting its own programmed positions. Enough about that. So to what is the historical perspective of the EEA message we are discussing today. The European Union is in the process of succeeding — it will probably be clarified in a few weeks’ time — with the largest enlargement project in the Union’s history. It will create a completely new European picture, where most of what was formerly characterised as Eastern Europe, or the countries behind the Iron Curtain, are full members of European cooperation in the European Union. It's historically a remarkable event. And it should perhaps also address the impact of this on the Norwegian economy, given the future of Norway. When we have chosen to benefit from the commercial advantages of the European single market, it should be clear that we have also taken on both a political and a moral commitment to provide a reasonable amount of compensation. So far, in the foreign debate in Stortinget, it has been said that all Norwegian parties are looking positively at the forthcoming EU enlargement. After today's debate, there is some doubt as to whether one really does, and what is the reason why one might do so, while describing the European Union as a kind of continuous political disaster. But don't do that. The challenge for Norway is primarily to safeguard our own interests as a country on the European continent. Those interests, in my view, suggest that we should not only have an intense desire for the EU to succeed in building up its common foreign policy project and its common security policy project, but that we on the Norwegian side should be concerned about when and in what way we can actively contribute to this. For Norwegian security policy and Norwegian foreign policy too, in the next decades, good and bad will be tied up to what is the common European interest in the global perspective. It is the obligation of the Storting to deal with, and it concerns all the lots in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e875	The Centre Party and SV have entered into their work programme for 2001–2005 in order to replace the EEA Agreement with an alternative agreement. In their joint note, the two sister parties – foreign policy – point out that Switzerland has entered into bilateral agreements with EU countries. Therefore, it is tempting to look a little further into the Swiss system. Producing a bilateral trade agreement similar to the one Switzerland has with the EU, which is better than the EEA, must be based on weak knowledge of what Switzerland's agreement actually involves and what experience Switzerland has so far gained with its solution. For Norway, this would mean giving up the benefits of the EEA Agreement and choosing to sit back with its weak sides. As others have said, it took Switzerland ten years to negotiate its seven agreements. The agreements are not dynamic and when they are implemented they are already insufficient. That is why additional negotiations are already under way. Because Norway has the EEA Agreement, the disagreement on the terms of the agreement will be settled by legal means of independent bodies and courts. Switzerland has no institutions equivalent to the EFTA Surveillance Authority (ESA) and the EFTA Court of Justice in its relationship with the EU. Therefore, when there is disagreement between Switzerland and the EU, it is difficult for Switzerland to ensure that the law of the strongest applies, as the agreements are monitored by the EU Commission. It is a body which, unlike ESA, belongs to the other party to the agreement. For Norway, the EEA Agreement ensures that disputes between EFTA and the EU always lead to negotiations between the parties through the EEA Committee. In the negotiations with Switzerland, the EU was given an impact on a clause rightly called the Guillotine clause. It implies that if one of the parties violates the agreement only within one sector, the contract work applicable to all sectors may be terminated without further delay. It demonstrates with all possible clarity the strength of the relationship between the two parties to the agreement and means that, in practice, it is even more difficult for Switzerland to oppose EU legislation than it is for EEA countries. Overall, it is difficult to see any benefits of importance to the Swiss solution rather than to the EEA Agreement. The Swiss model represents an emergency solution for a country that did not join the EEA but at the same time had a strong need to develop cooperation with its clearly important trading partner. The full benefits of cooperation with the EU, influence in the decision-making process and participation in the EU's increasing democratisation will not be achieved until the day we become a full member. In the meantime and in our current situation, the EEA Agreement is almost indispensable to Norway. Access to the market that purchases 70 pst. of Norwegian exports, are of vital importance for the country, for export companies and for their jobs. This may also be recognised by the ‘sister parties’ when they wish to leave the EEA in their work programme and in the form of a note, but end up with a proposal asking for investigations. You have to ask yourself whether they've given up or whether they've changed their position. What do they want? In any case, it seems that they have reached the conclusion before the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e892	‘In the beginning was the word’, it is called. That is why debate is important, and it is important to ask questions. So I have a debate going on, and some of them have erroneously concluded that I have concluded that debate before it begins. I am not in favour of Norway withdrawing from the EEA, but we need to have an open debate on the advantages and disadvantages of this agreement, because there are both advantages and disadvantages. Unfortunately, it is well that there has been a tendency for those who are adherents to this agreement to praise the positive sides, while the opponents have only been attached to it as one can find out of the negative aspects of the agreement. The agreement has given business our clear framework. One has a common labour market, and one has access to the market for its products, with one exception, simply for fish. When it concerns fish, we know that the Norwegian share has got a minus of 15 pst. on the European market. The EEA Agreement has clear advantages, but it is also such that the agreement requires us to adopt rules in Norway without affecting us when these rules apply. We have already adopted several thousand directives, and more of us know that it will be. Most of these directives can be adopted without problems, and we can also see that they have great advantages. But it's also so that there are decisions that we wouldn't have made if we had been outside, and that at least isolated are negative each. Many of these have major consequences. Norway has – as certainly all other countries – a number of special interests that are not being safeguarded today in the way we are associated with the EU, because we are not sitting around the table where decisions are taken. I myself have experience trying to influence from outside in areas that have been very important to Norway. I just have to admit that the experience with it was very poor. I also have to be told in the same way that I understand the counterparty, because we ourselves have chosen not to be where the decisions are taken. But at least I am absolutely sure that if we had chosen another form of connection, we could have secured our interests in a much more offensive way than the one under the EEA Agreement. Now it is the case that the EEA Agreement is constantly developing. When she was new, there was a focus on Northern Europe. As our neighbouring countries have become members and there are increasing numbers of countries from Eastern Europe who are knocking on the EU's door, we know that the focus will shift. As far as I am aware, everyone in this Chamber would like to welcome the Eastern European and Central European countries that are now knocking on the door of the EU. So it is that the European Union will soon have ten new Member States. This will affect the EU. This will affect the EEA and will therefore also affect Norway. I'm afraid that the Norwegian interests will end up even more in the hangover than is the case today. It is such that Norway is constantly among the countries most adapted to EU legislation. It's not necessarily negative, but it's still a paradox. It shows that a great deal of our legislation is adopted as a result of decisions taken in the EU, and I believe that it will be harder and harder to safeguard our interests only from the outside. As the leader of the Business Committee, I have close contact with the business community. I visit a lot of companies, and more often and more often I am confronted with the fact that the EEA Agreement is largely lacking in relation to their day-to-day operations. This is particularly the case for fisheries. We know that these problems cannot be solved by the relationship we have with the EU today. It has been claimed that the EEA Agreement is a housekeeper’s contract. In a sense, we can say that, because we have been allowed to grow our own small part of the European market, but we have no influence on what rules are in force on this market. But it's so that the alternative to this contract is to regulate our relationship through the law of promiscuity. At least I don't think there's a better way to do this. I feel that we need a debate here. In my view, the EEA Agreement is about to expire, whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e912	Yeah, that's exactly the last thing we agree with Olav Akselsen. What I think has been frustrating about this debate is that, as with the EEA Agreement, it is almost just business and trade. This debate on the EEA Agreement should have been about societal development, and that perspective has both the Centre Party and we have tried to go up. It was quite liberating that Morten Höglund said in a reply to me that the EEA agreement is similar to FrP policy. That should at least lead to some thoughts for other parties as well. The EEA Agreement deals, inter alia, with: on the borders of the People's Republic of China. Freedom of action for democratically elected bodies to make the important choices on the basis of local and national interests is crucial for the people’s governance. What everyone has to agree on is that a lot of power has been transferred to Brussels, and a lot of power has been transferred to bureaucracy and to the courts – that is, undermining freedom of action. It is that important considerations are subject to the four freedoms of capital and paralyze the freedom of action, and there is also a – at least a small – sea of difference between the EEA Agreement and full membership of the Union. This freedom of action, which we all have, is not the majority willing to use – one is not willing to use the right of veto in important areas. So it's said many times that just sit around the table or join the family picture, everything will be fine. Then I would like to ask: why should, among other things, I think those who sit and nod to everything from Brussels will show muscles when they're sitting around the table? What's going to convince me that if you were a member, you don't sit and nod around the table? As far as I know, both Sweden and Denmark have been cut off from using their freedom of action in what we consider to be important matters. So Akssen says he hears that the business community complains that the EEA agreement is missing. What I have heard is at least that small and medium-sized enterprises have complained about more bureaucracy and more form fields – directives that have been unnecessary in their business activities. Then I also think it's a paradox – or we'll say a democratic problem – that there's so little openness around the discussions here in Norway, among other things. because the discussions take place in the EEA Committee and are not brought into the public space. I would have thought that those who are going to negotiate for us in Brussels could have shown much bigger muscles, much greater urgency if there had been a public debate in Norway, and if they knew they had a strong opinion behind them. But that requires transparency. Then to the forthcoming negotiations. This is where the Commission threatens to pay a huge price to Norway. Why do they do that? Well, that's because they haven't come up with anything they consider proper in terms of enlargement. What do they do? Well, they invite some countries to sit around the table and join the party, and they send the bill to Norway. SV is not unwilling to pay for poor countries to be allowed to get up in dignity – on the contrary. But why in the world are we going to spend so much money through the EU – through a system that has proved to be inefficient in allocating funds, through a system that has repeatedly shown corruption? Now we have just had a scandal where an auditor has resigned from the position and said that this is a system that is open to fraud. The Court of Auditors in the EU has just underlined the same. Eighteen years in a row, they come up with a report that says that the funds are not being used properly here. Yes, more to poor countries, but more focused!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e933	I must first say that when one in this debate hears what arrogance the representative for wages is facing those who have a different view of EEA and EU membership than what he has, then one understands a little more of why it went as it did in 1994. With regard to the EEA Agreement, it is the subject of a stronger debate now than it has been in the past. I find that reasonable, and I think there are many reasons for that. I believe that there is uncertainty about the enlargement that can come within the EU, which will also lead to negotiations between Norway and the EU on the situation. I think it is reasonable to create a debate on that issue. I also believe that one of the reasons why the EEA Agreement is more debated now than before is that over the last eight years, there has been an ever-increasing increase in relation to what was set as a premise when the EEA Agreement was adopted. That was what the EEA members said in 1994 was not going to happen, it has happened! And many people have noticed that. I also think many people see that there is a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of paper related to a part of the work within the EEA, and that makes a lot of skeptical. I think that many have also registered the lack of willingness of the Norwegian authorities to actually put the tools in the contract into use, in terms of caring for important Norwegian interests in an offensive way. I think a lot of people had expected that Norwegian authorities might have taken a different position when it came to the Gas Directive and when it came to other areas of very important economic value for Norway. I can actually say that in this way that I am most afraid of enlargement is not the requirements that may come from the EU, but the accident that can be caused by the EEA members of the Stortinget and the Government in terms of caring for Norwegian interests in the negotiations. Because we're not going to say in advance that we're willing to pay the bill again, are we? We're not going to say in advance that we're willing to trade fish for agriculture, and thus play the negotiating cards from us? I am also a member of the Business Committee and I am concerned with a number of the same fields in which the representative Olav Aksen was involved. I experience business interests as mixed. But I think that's reason, after hearing the debate here today, to remember that Norway has actually had market access for industry and industrial products to the European market over 30 years, so that no one thinks it came to the EEA Agreement. I understand the discussion about the fisheries issues. We do not have a simple situation in terms of market access to fish in the EU. But then we also need to know that the EU line has always been towards Norway that any market access to fish is to be paid with Norwegian fishing resources. That's the way it was in 1972, that's the way it was when we were dealing with the EEA Agreement, where we actually gave up some fish resources, and that's the way it was in 1994. That was one of the important reasons why many said no in 1994. We should also be aware that those actors who today say that they are in the fishing industry, and who are perhaps trusted by the EU's supporters in getting their opinion reversed, make it conditional that we should not give up resources – it must be possible to gain market access without giving up resources. And my answer is that I don't think that's possible. I think the EU has proved that every time the EU has been in a negotiating situation with Norway. As far as business is concerned, I have also, in particular from many small businesses, been given the same impression as the representative Valle, namely that business is also characterised by an unimaginable bureaucracy linked to EU and EEA rules. One has also received quite clear complaints, in fact, for example. in relation to more stringent Norwegian public tender rules and a rigorous legislative practice. We're so afraid we're going to get on the edge a little bit, that we don't dare to be flexible in relation to the legislation at all. We're going to be the nicest person in the class all the time. Finally, I want to go back a little bit to what I was in the line change to the foreign minister, and that's that I don't know what the strategy Norway has for the relationship between agriculture and fish. I registered that someone said this had to be connected. If they want to connect this, I don't understand how they intend to do it. Now you give up with one hand without the other hand knowing it, and without requiring a return. There can be no good negotiating strategy. In that context, I do not think the Foreign Minister or other parties should be surprised that the Central Party is asking to know what the Norwegian negotiating positions are. I think that is also important for the future public debate. We miss knowing what Norway actually wants, and how Norway intends to defend Norwegian interests in an enlargement debate. It should be a claim that both Stortinget and the Norwegian people were informed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e952	From the start of the debate here two to three hours ago, the melody has been, and it was the case-speaker who gave the melody, that this is nothing to discuss. There's nothing new. Although daily newspapers are tasteful of news from Brussels, we should not be discussing this. This is a trend and a melody that goes back to our committee: foreign policy should not be discussed. We're in the extended Foreign Affairs Committee, and there's a pipe from two to three parties saying that we want this up to discuss it in the open hall, it's almost as if we're traitors. That is not the way we are going to have a debate on foreign policy. Things that we have to push to get up from the expanded Foreign Committee to uprooting, drive the United States and discuss in Congress for days, and the UN discusses them for days. It's a culture that we're not going to discuss these things. Then there have been questions from some about why we are asking for a statement and not bothering with a direct exit proposal. We want a distribution, above all, because the message is silent on the problem of the EEA Agreement. She's also ideological, because she doesn't point out an alternative. She takes, for example, Not to mention the problem of what we can call good Norwegian virtues such as value conservatism and, in part, socialism, versus the new coming in, namely liberalisation, freedoms and a more crude form of capital power. When it comes to agriculture and fish, unless the Government is able to weigh between our two primary industries, the most export-dependent industry — the fishing industry — is able to do so for the Government, I believe. Fishing industries see that they are also dependent on the second primary industry, agriculture, in order to provide sustainable and viable communities around the coast. The district population is likely to be the ones who will be able to cope with what the government is unable to do, namely this balancing process. Today we have a free trade agreement which means that we sell fish free of customs duties to all countries of Eastern and Central Europe. The benefits of customs freedom shall be compensated under WTO rules for when such countries become members of the EU. Compensation is given in the form of duty-free import quotas applicable to the whole EU, as the message says. This kind of compensation came to us in Norway when Sweden and Finland became members of the EU. SV will nevertheless stress that if we are to influence future EEA legislation from the Norwegian side, much stronger efforts must be put in place at an early stage in EU decision-making processes. It is while legislative proposals are being banned by the Commission that the EU’s many lobby groups look at the importance of their efforts. The EEA Agreement gives Norway the right to be represented in the working groups used by the European Commission to prepare new legislation for the internal market, and thus also for the EEA. It is important that agencies outside the departments also become aware of what is going on. The details cannot, of course, be played from the work within the EU, but the prohibition of an act in an area and the nature of the main device of the act must become known outside, including in Norway. Governments should therefore go public at this stage with what they have of proposals for new EU/EEA laws. It is apparent from the Storing Communication that the framework note on relevant legal acts will be developed routinely at an early stage before being adopted by the EU and that they will be updated continuously at all stages of the EEA process. The content of these framework notes should be known both to the Stortinget and to the Norwegian stakeholder organisations so early that it is possible to find allies in the EU itself and in individual EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e966	It is quite striking how ambitious the Government is to be a driving force and to facilitate the development of countries that are now at the forefront of integration into the EU. In these countries, Norway will contribute to the growth of skills, to infrastructure, to economic development, at the expense of the necessary measures at home. Reference is made to adopted restrictions on the use of oil money. When the first Bondevik government took its seat, the use of oil money was much greater than today. That's a pretty unyielding picture. The second Bondevik government is striving to reduce the level of taxation, which the first Bondevik government built up at the same time as the use of oil money was built up. Bondevik's self-declared good governance has brought us into an economic mountain and valley, with great adverse effects for both business, municipality and private households. Value creation goes down, investments to make a more competitive business go down, and transfers to other countries go up. The government's involvement outside its borders is at the expense of our own well-being and industrial development. The government has no strategy on how Norway will become competitive within the EEA. When tens of thousands of jobs disappear, it means that tens of thousands of single families are forced out of their networks, forced into cheap sales of good housing, made into indebted victims. This is the government's responsibility to do something about it. Increasing unemployment is not just statistical figures; it becomes human capital when a government pursues a deliberate policy of centralisation. The renegotiation of the EEA Agreement is not about extended market access for the EU, it is about extending the right to capitalisation of our eternal renewable resources. The Coastal Party cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e973	It's a little surprising after three and a half hours of debate to hear from the Parliament's pulpit that we have no debate and that we are called for debate. There may be considerable volume requirements for something to satisfy the minimum requirements of a debate if one has not recorded that one actually participates in a debate after three and a half hours. To the representative Jacobsen, who had difficulty grasping the ideological background of being part of the European integration project, it must be allowed to ask the representative Jacobsen to take a moment to look beyond Norway’s borders and see what the political images of other European countries look like. He does not have to look further than at our neighbouring country Denmark to find that his own sister party shares the same view of the blessing of EU membership as for example. Right has. If he looks even a little further, he will find that the political parties in Europe that have carried forward this integration project over decades after, are the conservative parties, the liberal parties, the Christian-democratic parties, the social-democratic parties, without exception, and so are men also most left-wing socialist parties. The parties that have been and are ideologically conditioned opponents of European integration, it is the parties that are out on the opposite side of the ideological scale. I hesitate to call them dark blue, I prefer to call them ultraviolet. It is the extremely nationalist parties in countries by country that are fighting against European integration. So maybe Bjørn Jacobsen should avoid a little meditation in his payroll chamber on which company his own party is actually in today's Europe. I have not been able to hear, either by reading the committee setting or by listening to the posts from the radar parities SV and the centre party, a single precursor to a political alternative for Norway. The only thing that has been in the vicinity of something that reminds us of a concrete alternative is a love for Switzerland and the Swiss location in today's Europe. When you think that Switzerland is the country that has been pursuing a consistent policy of neutrality throughout the last century, and is still pursuing a consistent policy of neutrality, when you think that it is no more than a very short time since it was possible to get a majority in Switzerland at all to register the country into the United Nations because you were afraid that it would reduce the national maritime council, it is a little surprising that exactly Switzerland should suddenly be an example of Norwegian European policy. In this case, it would not only be a question mark of the EEA Agreement and of the cooperation Norway has developed, after all, for quite a long time with our closest trading partners in Europe, it would also be a very strong question mark for our Norwegian NATO membership. It would mean briefly replacing the entire political course Norway has followed in the post-World War II period. And then I have to say that it's kind of shocking that parties who want to be taken seriously can talk to such an easy tone and without seriously feeling obliged to sketch something that is an alternative, but instead through voting want to throw the cards away and ask the government to make an investigation for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e982	Mr Jacobsen has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e985	It's clear that it's nice to have an ideological debate on this too. Value conservatism, as I see it, has clear limitations in relation to any EU where all free movement is to be brought to life. So to the question, is an output possible? Yes, of course, an announcement is possible, and a statement from the EEA for Norway is no step out of the way. Both Norway and the EU are members of the WTO. This means that the WTO rules will regulate trade between Norway and the EU from the first moment after a possible announcement. Norway can evolve in many directions. The trade agreement from 1973 has never been terminated; in most areas, he has just given way to the EEA Agreement. And if the EEA Agreement is terminated, in principle, the trade agreement remains in force, modified with the changes that have come through WTO legislation. Another thing is that what we're up to is an EU that's discussing becoming a superstate. A drive and create a convention, a constitution, that has completely different ideas than the ones we had to stick to in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e994	You're almost in doubt if you're going to take Inge Wage Posts seriously, but we're going to have to comment on a couple of things. I guess that's what he was after. In the case of Switzerland, it is said that there is no one in the Centre Party or in SV who wants to copy Switzerland's social model. No one has said in this Chamber that we want to look towards the security policy that Switzerland has been pursuing. Of course we don't! So when Inge Wohnung begins to draw comparisons to Switzerland's neutrality and our relationship with NATO, Inge Wohnung can take this with crushing calm. These are designed thoughts in his head, and it has nothing to do with the thoughts that are not done in SVs – I expect that I can also include SV – or in some of the Center Party's heads. So he can take it with him a crushing rest. So the question is, what is the alternative? Yes, there are alternatives, it has Switzerland" model shown. But it's Switzerland's model we're referring to, there's nothing else in relation to neither Switzerland's organization nor the rest of the world. No one has said we should copy Switzerland's model. The only thing we know for sure is that if the EEA Agreement were to be cancelled, which I understand is that you think about within the framework of the Commission, we will fall back to the Free Trade Agreement. And it could actually be that that's what becomes the Inge Wage Option, if that were the case. But no one has been given to say exactly what model Norway is going to develop, and that's what we want creativity to contribute to. What we're asking for is the willingness and creativity to go together and see if it can actually take better care of Norway's interests in a form of agreement than what is done through the EEA agreement we have today. And here you call for creativity and the alternative. Yes, dear friends, it is not very creative or alternative to go into the European Union with the reason that I very often hear from the yes-page, which is that we cannot stand outside – we can even become members after Albania. I see no will in Norway on the yes side to go into a discussion about what kind of EU it is that is developing. I hear no one being willing to say anything about what attitudes you have in relation to what the Convention is now discussing. If you want more union, if you want a system based more on the nation state, if you want a president, how does the security policy relate to this? I see no will on the yes-side to go into that kind of discussion, and I would expect that you actually had some opinions about it when you are so invisibly sure that it is membership that is the solution for Norway. But when we talk about alternatives, we're looking for an alternative that takes better care of Norwegian interests than what we do today. We see that Norwegian interests suffer from an agreement that is naturally unbalanced, and we see that Norwegian interests suffer from the fact that Norway is very often in the hands of lua and does not dare to go up on the barricades and defend Norwegian interests. That's what we're after. When Inge Wohnning asks about alternatives, we want an alternative that takes care of Norwegian interests in a better way than what is being done through the EEA Agreement today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1007	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 468]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1023	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 468]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1039	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 468]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1055	In recent years, the World Bank has been committed to strengthening its relationship with non-governmental organisations and taking their criticism seriously. On the initiative of the President of the World Bank, James Wolfensohn, SAPRI was formally launched in Washington in July 1997 on the basis of the critical structural adjustment programmes. SAPRI was designed by a network of NGOs, organised in SAPRI in cooperation with the World Bank. SAPRIN stands for Structural Adjustment Participation Review International Network. The aim was to contribute to national consultation processes on the effectiveness of the structural adjustment programmes. The relationship between the SAPRIN Secretariat and the World Bank was gradually strained, and the bank gradually distanced itself from cooperation. Several local NGOs also came to grips with the management of the project after each critical one. The Bank itself claims that it never withdrew from the project, considering this as the end of the so-called other global forum in July 2001. At that time there was no final report from SAPRIN, and the bank chose to make its own summary in the form of the report Adjustment from Within: Lessons from the Structural Adjustment Participation Review Initiative. The report that was subsequently presented, in April of this year, therefore presents the own version of the process and results of the international SAPRIN network and was thus concluded without the participation of the World Bank. It is this last report that is the basis for this Document No. The 8-year proposal, summarizing four years of work in nine countries. The report shall be reviewed, inter alia: the consequences of: the reduction of trade barriers to the liberalisation of financial sector effects of structural adjustment reforms in the labour market economic and social consequences of privatisation programmes impact on small consumers and the food security of structural adjustment in the agricultural sector results for the health and education sectors of the World Bank guidelines on the level of public expenditure Many of the issues raised in the SAPRIN report have long been addressed by one from Norway. Throughout the 1990s and up to today, the Bank has developed a deeper understanding of the links between the necessary economic and structural reforms and other aspects of the development process, including the social dimension. Norway has actively pursued such developments. This has been done by the bank’s governing bodies — together with the other Nordic countries — as well as by regular bilateral meetings. As one of the largest contributors, Norway has supported SAPRI since 1997 with a total of 10.3 million. kr. The World Bank's policy has also changed significantly over the last decade. It now has a clear focus on poverty reduction and places a decisive emphasis on national ownership. Comprehensive Development Framework – CDF introduced an overall approach to development. Economic and social development cannot be seen independently of each other. PRSP – Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper – jointly launched by the World Bank and the Monetary Fund, continued this process of thinking. The Bretton Woods institutions today have a different starting point for their activities than was the case in the 1980s and early 1990s, when many of the structural adjustment programmes were launched. In the context of the PRSP process, analyses shall be carried out of the actual impact of changes in the policies of the cooperating countries, known as the ‘Poverty and Social Impact Assessment’. The matter being referred to you today is attached to a letter of 28 August this year from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Minister of Assistance to the Foreign Affairs Committee. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Socialist Left Party, aligns with the Ministry's assessment of the SAPRIN report. The government wants to contribute to a wide-ranging debate on the World Bank's policy and believes that the issues raised by the report must be taken seriously. At the same time, the SAPRIN report contains methodological and factual weaknesses, making it difficult to use the report in the World Bank’s governing bodies. Nevertheless, the conclusions should be discussed in the Bank's own bodies and this is already happening. The majority ask the Government to continue to work to ensure that the social dimension is safeguarded in the work of the World Bank. In the present document, No. 8:128 calls for proposals to be made for the submission of a separate report on Norway's relations and policies in the multilateral financial institutions; Another majority, all except the members of the SV and the Central Party, are satisfied with the information that Stortinget receives annually about Norway's relationship with the multilateral financial institutions through St.prp. point.1 and the reporting in the context of capital replenishment by the International Development Association – IDA – and the regional funds, and therefore consider that there is no need for a separate reporting on these issues. The same majority asked the Minister for Development to give details of the issues raised in Document No. 8:128 in connection with the write-off on capital restocking in the World Bank's fund for the poorest countries, to be presented in the harvest. On this basis, the majority consider that the proposal should be annexed to the Protocol. I guess the minority itself will explain their comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1106	If I didn't hear completely wrong, the spokesperson said that the I in SAPRIN stood for ‘International’. He doesn't do it, he stands for "Initiative". That's the whole idea of this, it's an initiative for something new, an initiative for something else, an initiative to actually listen to ordinary people. We, who are concerned that Norwegian taxpayers' money should be spent wisely, should be really busy and interested in the participation of those who accept our funds through both bilateral and multilateral cooperation, that they are involved and tell what they think about it. Do they think it's working? Is this what one would have thought the money would go to? The great thing about this initiative was that for the first time ordinary people were to be heard. Last 14 days ago, Prime Minister Bondevik stood here and suggested that the financial institutions should be more involved in relation to the environmental summit, that is, the institutions that have been closed, which have a little character of His Holiness, which one should not touch, which is undemocratically built osb. We have to find out about this. We have to get in what we're proud of, that's representativeness, popular government. One country, one voice – completely elementary things that we are proud of on 17 May osb. Of course, we need to get this into these financial institutions. They're supposed to be pulled out of the dark hooks they're in. People are going to be there, people are going to be with and decide, not least about the money we spit in there. In this SAPRIN study, one was particularly interested in finding out what kind of effects the policy of adaptation has on ordinary people – by the way, it cost SEK 40 million. There's a good reason in itself not to throw her on the boat. The results were clearly negative. Structural adjustment has promoted poverty. Reductions in barriers to trade have led to more import growth than exports in the countries where they were intended to help. One should not travel far until one sees that the orange tree is full of oranges, while the shower powder is imported and sold. That's what's the whole idea, access/access to a market to sell factory-processed goods from other countries instead of building up an idea that you can use your own resources. The Berry Power principle should lie there instead of importing manufactured food. The report tells the history of human beings on the other hand of a limit of wealth that is only there: cheap imports, unemployment, increases in water and power prices and public services that are passed on to foreign hands. Before it was called structural adjustment. Now it's no longer called that. No, it's called PR—Poverty Reduction. In certain other contexts, one refers to a set of other letters as well. But poverty reduction is the idea. It's the new turn, the new find word within the aid. Nothing wrong with it, but when we know that behind it, there are realities, such as that workers' rights are being reduced, it's being made easier to outlaw people, and it's easier to weaken trade unions, then we know that this is against what we stand for who built this country, the country we're assigned to rule. It broke completely fundamentally with those principles. It is instructed in the structural programme to introduce property in schools and for patients in hospitals, to privatise waterworks and power plants, and to remove protective duties on rural agriculture. In total, in the view of the SV, these measures help to increase the gap between poor and rich in individual countries, and also between poor and rich countries. We can do more with this. I consider the proposals from SV that I am making, as a contribution to correcting the errors that the SAPRIN report has uncovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1123	I can understand some of the background and commitment of the SV to the policy objectives described in the report of the SAPRIN network. But it may seem that SV has not fully followed the positive developments that have actually taken place in the World Bank. In recent years, in the World Bank's strategy for combating poverty, the Bank has become much more aware of using concrete development goals in a strategy, ensuring that these objectives are measurable and relevant. In the relationship between the World Bank and the United Nations system, there have been a number of conflicts of competence and reprisals in the past. This has now significantly improved. The World Bank and the United Nations are now working closely together in the fight against AIDS, for better education in developing countries and at country level. It is known that there have been some problems in the cooperation between the World Bank and the UNDP, but the signals from both sides are that this is now changing. There are still areas where cooperation could be better, but the atmosphere between the Bank and the United Nations has improved significantly in just a few years. In Norway's policy towards the World Bank Group, we want to help integrate the mandate of the Banking Group, poverty reduction, into all phases of the Bank's active activities, strategies, programmes, technical assistance and other activities. We will help to strengthen efforts to reach the poorest population groups, to maximise the alignment of the activities of the banking group in line with Norwegian development policy priorities, and to ensure that key cross-cutting issues such as the environment, equality and good governance are addressed, and also to strengthen the work on industrial development in poor countries, with particular emphasis on energy. We also want to contribute to strengthening the coordination andrecipient management of assistance, increasing the emphasis of national ownership in the design and implementation of national poverty-oriented development strategies, and we will support national capacity building to achieve this. From the Norwegian side, we will support the reorganization to make institutions more effective, including: stimulate more cooperation across departments and regions, strengthen cooperation with regional development banks, strengthen cooperation with the United Nations system, in particular the UNDP, and better define the role of the World Bank in the international financial architecture, in particular in the prevention and management of financial crises and their social and structural consequences. For Norway, it has been important this year to follow up the results of the IDA 13 negotiations, re-establish and rationalise co-financing in line with the new budgetary structure, to follow-up the HIPC in line with the update of the debt plan, and to follow up on the new private sector strategy. The SV's proposals focus in particular on the search for structural adjustment policies in the World Bank. This is a topic that has received considerable attention from the Norwegian side. A change in economic policy and an improvement in resource efficiency has been and is an absolute necessity in many countries. However, the concrete design of the reform programmes must also take account of other aspects of a country's development policy. From the Norwegian side, we have been occupied by the very poorest groups, and that these should not be hit unnecessarily by immediate measures. In a very early phase of structural adjustment policy, the Norwegian side, together with some other countries, initiated a major investigation into the social dimension of the structural adjustment concept in the bank. The conclusions of this work helped to adjust and improve the structural adjustment concept. It is a concern that there has been a lack of investment in the poorest countries, especially in Africa, after years of adaptation measures. From the Norwegian side, we have also been particularly concerned about the environmental impact of the adaptation. This was probably a page that was poorly understood by the bank, and Norway therefore took the initiative in a major investigation into this. The conclusions are that environmental considerations have been incorporated into the Bank’s guidelines for the design of the structural adjustment programme. The Christian People's Party believes it is important for the Bank to be in broad dialogue with many different environments in donor countries and beneficiary countries when the structural adjustment programmes are launched. Only then can the best results be achieved that benefit the poorest. There has been an active movement of anti-globalisation in recent years. The World Bank takes the anti-globalisation movement seriously, and the bank's leader wants to have a dialogue with opponents of the bank as well. It may sometimes be difficult to understand all the resistance to the Bank as regards its activities in development projects that focus on local participation, autonomy, democracy, accountability and awareness-raising. On the other hand, the exposure to injustice and the unfortunate consequences of globalisation is positive. It should be clear that the anti-globalisation movement is in no way consistent. It consists, inter alia, of: by political groups on the left-wing, trade unions, environmental organisations and voluntary organisations. But there have been quite concrete changes in the bank's strategy. The main change is the PRSP process – Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Here, developing countries themselves must formulate their strategies. The objectives and plans of the PRSP are formulated by those responsible for the budgets of developing countries, not by the people of the World Bank. It gives a completely different level of participation and accountability, and it provides a basis for positive developments in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1153	I am pleased that a broad majority in the vote expresses satisfaction with the information that Stortinget receives annually from the Government on Norway's relationship with the multilateral financial institutions through the budget, St. prp. No 1, and the reporting on capital restocking of the International Development Fund – IDA – and regional funds. I also note positively that one assumes that over the years the Government has been concerned about precisely the issues that are being highlighted and focused on today in Document No. 8:128, the social dimension of the development process. People should be heard, said the representative Jacobsen, and that is precisely why the Government has supported the work of the SAPRIN network and has contributed more than 10 million since 1997. kr for this process. I would stress that, because that means that we want public participation, attention and commitment around the bank's policy. It also means that we have set up in relation to the work of this network. Regardless of what one might think of the so-called SAPRIN report and the assessments used in Document No. The 8 proposal, it is important to have a critical debate on such a central development institution as the World Bank – an institution that has a very important impact on the situation in many poor countries. I am therefore also pleased that the majority in the vote is asking for a detailed explanation of the very issues raised in Document No. The 8th proposal. I look forward to complying with this request in connection with the proposal for the thirteenth capital restocking of the IDA, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to submit during November. I also hope that the Stortinget will take advantage of the occasion for an active and offensive debate on the World Bank's policies and multilateral financial institutions. Here we will also discuss issues related to the work of Norway through the World Bank’s governing bodies in general and in relation to the impact of the structural adjustment programmes in particular. In other words, I would also like to address a good part of the issues raised by the minority in their comments in this setting. There is reason to stress that these issues are part of the ministry's daily work in relation to multilateral institutions. The biggest challenge now, in my opinion, is to ensure that the policy implementation of the World Bank is implemented in practice at country level, until the poor farmer notices differences. I assume that the Stortinget wants to discuss the substance of the bank's policy in connection with the submission of the IDA proposal, and in this round I will therefore limit myself to a few questions. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs points out in its statement, several research communities have pointed out that the SAPRIN report contains methodological and factual errors which make it problematic to base its work on the World Bank bodies. It is essential that an assessment of the social and economic impact of structural adjustment programmes is based on a sound professional basis. Then it's also more likely to be heard and taken seriously, so that it contributes to a change in the bank's policy. At the same time, neither Norway nor the Bank would like to reject the report as a starting point for further cooperation with civil society. The government is set to continue to contribute to the further work of the bank as well as the SAPRIN network as well as other NGOs. There is also reason to stress, since this has been affected in the debate today, that the Bank has not broken its cooperation with the network and that it has recently underlined its willingness to continue working with representatives of the network at country level. In other words, the management of the Bank is very concerned about how the experience of the SAPRIN process can be followed up. I look forward to discussing these issues in connection with the presentation of the IDA proposal. To conclude, the representative Jacobsen was concerned with poverty reduction as the new ‘catch’ word in an international context. I can then stress that in Norwegian development policy, there is, in fact, the fight against poverty, and it is also higher, and it is reflected in the Action Plan on Combating Poverty, which the representatives of Storting are familiar with. There we also make a good and thorough presentation of our policy in the Bank's organs, but the rest of us can come back to this in the context of the debate on the IDA implementation and the World Bank's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1176	It was very good to right from the Christian People's Party here. But I want to ask questions about whether we can risk Norwegian bilateral assistance agreeing to remedy the consequences of multilateral assistance, which we very much actually agree to pay. We must also take inwards that there are never so many fine words and results as when we talk about assistance, and we must always be under pressure that we should be better, that we should be better – not least in terms of sustaining the willingness to help, the attachment and solidarity of the Norwegian people as well – so that it can have consequences. For last and last, there is at the bottom a relationship between the Norwegian population and the population of other countries, which when small farmers are visiting the Small Farm in Norway, for example. I would also like to ask the Minister for Development: what is the challenge in relation to the World Bank internally, how it is structured in relation to democracy, reconciliation rules, who is in charge, etc., and how they work in the field?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1183	The President expects the question to be addressed to Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson and not to Christian People's Party politician Hilde Frafjord Johnson. At least she's got the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1186	She can choose that role herself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1191	There is no conflict between Christian People's Party politician Hilde Frafjord Johnson and the Council of State, there is good consistency. I would just like to make a few comments on Mr Jacobsen's question, firstly, on the use of bilateral assistance to remedy the consequences of multilateral institutions' policies and assistance. Then I'm afraid that the representative Jacobsen is making the same mistake as shown by part of the work done by the SAPRIN network, namely that it is assumed that all the consequences of the bank's policy and multilateral institutions' policies are negative, and that what we have to do is to remedy this. It's wrong, the picture is a lot more nuanced and actually also more positive than the representative Jacobsen clearly believes. Secondly, it is also not correct, and we will come back to that a little bit in connection with the collapse proposition that we are going to present on the IDA, which will also deal with the bank's policy. Our bilateral assistance is aimed at combating poverty in the same way that much of the bank's assistance and policy does. With that I haven't said that everything does, but I've said that a lot does. The World Bank is currently the largest contributor to the health, education and combating HIV/AIDS in poor countries and has also invested considerable amounts to combat poverty, which has had tangible results for the lives and living conditions of many individuals. Then there is a good deal left, and the representative asked Jacobsen about, among other things. ensuring full practical implementation. Policies are very much in place, but an institution such as the Bank is large, and implementing change processes and conversion processes is not only demanding in Norwegian context, it is even more demanding in a multilateral institution like this. It is important to ensure that they reach the full extent, at the land level and down into the measures in each country, as I said in my speech, so that it is noticed by the very poorest. Now it's their turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 468]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1208	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1215	During the debate, Mr Jacobsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward a proposal on seven points. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government asks the Government to assess the benefits and disadvantages of the EEA Agreement and the internal market for important Norwegian industries, for the districts, for the development of working life, for the management of Norwegian natural resources, for the environmental situation and food security.2. The Storting asks the Government to explain how it will relate to the "new understanding" of the EEA Agreement on which ESA relies compared to non-discriminatory schemes on a national basis.3. The Government asks the Government to explain what amendments to the EEA Agreement could be desirable in order to avoid the disadvantages of the EEA Agreement.4. The Storting asks the Government to investigate alternatives to the EEA Agreement and what consequences a Norwegian termination of the EEA Agreement will have.5. The Government is asking the Government to establish a financial support system from which organisations can seek support for the building of competences in EU issues and for impact work in relation to the EU.6. The Government is asking the Government to develop procedures to inform relevant organisations at the earliest possible stage on EEA-relevant issues that may have a direct interest in the organisations.7. The Government is asking the Government to assess whether increased financial support should be given to the EU work of the parties. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1242	I pressed the wrong button. I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1249	The figures then turn 85 votes against and 20 votes in favour of the proposal of the Socialist Left and the Central Party, and the proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1295	During the debate, Mr Jacobsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to require that the conclusions of the SAPRIN report be addressed to wide-ranging debate in the organs of the World Bank. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to provide a major communication on Norway’s relationship with the multilateral financial institutions. The biggest request is that such a big message explain the following: the extent to which Norway, through its participation, inter alia: in the Management Board of the World Bank has contributed to the promotion of the World Bank's structural adjustment policy, the extent to which structural adjustment requirements, as described in the SAPRIN report, have been set out as conditions for Norwegian bilateral and multilateral assistance, proposals for annual procedures which will mean that the Stortinget will be briefed on what views Norway promotes in and towards the organs of the World Bank and how Norway votes on the World Bank's Governing Board and other relevant bodies where Norway is represented.’;» There will be no alternative between these proposals and the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-14.ana.ud905e1341	There is no record.
