ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e167	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e183	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e199	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e215	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e231	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e247	On behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. It is recommended that Odelstingen should refer to the legislative proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e259	Anne Helen Rui has taken up what she presented referred to. No more people have asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e270	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e284	I'm going to make more suggestions. The first proposal is on behalf of the Workers' Party and reads as follows: ‘The decision of the nobility is not accepted.Note:1.Sections 5-14, third paragraph, point (a), first sentence, the following should be assumed:‘The advantage of the redemption or sale of an unlisted right to acquire or sell a share or a basic fund certificate in employment shall be regarded as the benefit of work under Sections 5 to 10.2 § 5 to 14, third paragraph, point (b) shall be assumed to be equal to:‘The advantage of the acquisition or subsequent sale of a listed right to acquire or sell a share or a basic fund certificate shall be regarded as the benefit of work under Sections 5 to 10. The benefit is determined as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox In the acquisition of the right, the benefit is set at its value by the acquisition less the taxpayer's cost of the right.2. When the right to acquire a share or a basic fund certificate is redeemed, the benefit is set at that part of the difference between the turnover value of the share or a basic fund certificate and the redemption price that exceeds the taxpayer's cost of the right and the taxed benefit under paragraph 1. 1 in the case of the acquisition of the court. In the event of redemption of the right to sell the share or the basic fund certificate, the benefit is set at the difference between the redemption price and the turnover value of the share or the basic fund certificate, less the cost price.3. In the case of the sale of the right, the benefit is set at the part of the difference between the sales total and the cost price that exceeds the taxed benefit under paragraph. 1 in the case of the acquisition of the court. The transfer of such a right to the related person is not regarded as a sale within the meaning of this point. In any case, persons with whom the taxable person is related or who is a brother-in-law are included in the ascending or descending line, as well as in the first and second lines. Redemption from the related to other unrelated is regarded as redemption or sale by the taxpayer.4. Amounts taxed by acquisition under paragraph 1 may be deducted from income in the event of subsequent lapse of the right. When the right is exercised in the form of a redemption less than the acquisition amount, it is deducted from the difference between the acquisition amount and the redemption value. Redemption value means, here, the turnover value of the underlying share or basic fund certificate at the date of redemption, less the redemption price. When the right is exercised in the form of a sale at a lower price than the purchase price, this shall be deducted from the difference between the acquisition amount and the sales price.» 3.§ 6-19, second paragraph, the fourth sentence is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Deductions may be granted either up to SEK 1 350 or up to two per million of the total salary paid.’;4.§ 6-20, fourth paragraph, second sentence, should be assumed to be replaced:‘Deductions may be made by up to NOK 1 350 or by a proportionate part of this amount when the deductible quota is paid for only part of the year of income.’5.§ 6 to 50, fourth paragraph, second sentence, should be assumed to read:‘Maximum deductions are made for gifts under this paragraph and the union quota with a total of DKK 1 350 per year.’6.§ 12 to 17 first subparagraphs should read as follows:‘If the taxpayer’s total income from enterprises whose estimated income is determined would exceed 23 times the basic amount of the national income. [[G]] On behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, I will also make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraphs 10-12, first paragraph and the new second paragraph are assumed to be replaced by the following:’ Remuneration is determined for dividends received multiplied by half of the shareholder’s general income tax rate. [[1]] [[2]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration for dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The recipient of the dividend is a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1.b. Dividends received to active shareholders, to the extent that the dividend does not exceed the estimated personal income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year in which the dividend is distributed.c. For that part of the total dividends to the shareholder not exceeding NOK 10000 [[bottom deduction]] The present second, third and fourth subparagraphs become the third, fourth and fifth subparagraphs respectively."2.§ 10-32 second subparagraph is assumed to be replaced by the following:» The entry value is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down-regulation, with an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the case of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37 and the realisation in the case of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share must be regulated by half of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company and an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of a share in unit trusts, or to the realisation within the meaning of points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by the taxpayer for the share unless otherwise specified.’;» The next proposal is on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. It sounds like this: ‘The decision of the fair value is not accepted.Note:1.Sections 4 to 12, second, third and fourth paragraphs are assumed to be replaced by the following:’ Shares listed on the SME list at Oslo Stock Exchange are valued at their price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. [[2]] [[3]] Unlisted shares are valued at the share's proportional share of the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. [[4]] Unlisted shares in non-resident companies are valued at the estimated value of the share's sales on 1 January of the Equation Year. The share shall be valued after the third subparagraph when the taxpayer so requires and can be expected to be the tax asset of the company.§ 4-13, first subparagraph, it is assumed that it should be replaced by the following:» For a limited liability company or public limited liability company formed the year before the Equation Year, the share value is set at the sum of the nominal amount and premium of the shares. [[1]] Where the formation takes place upon transfer from a personal company to a limited liability company or public limited liability company, the value shall be taken into account on 1 January of the Equation Year, determined in accordance with the third paragraph of § 4-12.» The last proposal is on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party and reads as follows: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. § 8-11 first, third, fifth and sixth paragraphs and § 8-15 seventh paragraphs are supposed to be deleted. II. Paragraph 5-15, second paragraph, fourth sentence, is assumed to be deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e417	Anne Helen Rui has looked forward to the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e420	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nobleman is not accepted.Note:In the law on taxes on wealth and income, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-13 should be replaced as follows:‘The advantage of the private use of the employer’s car is determined on the basis of an assumed annual private driving distance of 10000 km and the addition of driving between home and work.’The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-12 is assumed to be replaced by ‘The reduction after the first paragraph shall not exceed 50 pst. [[tax laws]] of the estimated total costs of the car.’2.§ 6-20 should be assumed to be extinguished. 3rd@item: inlistbox Paragraphs 6 to 81, first paragraph, point (a) are assumed to be replaced by the following:‘a) As from the month in which the taxpayer reaches the age of 70, a special deduction is given in the general income of SEK 2,083 per month. start of month. The spouses are entitled to the same special deduction as a lump sum.»§ 6-81, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:» As from the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under paragraphs 12-16 of the Danish Social Security Act or a disability pension because the acquisition capacity is reduced by at least 2/3, a special deduction is granted in general income of SEK 2,083 per person. in the beginning of a month.’;4.§ 7-11, first subparagraph, point (a) is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘The percentage income is calculated at 1,875 pst. [[2]] the equivalency of the property on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in point (d). However, for the part of the equation value before deduction exceeds SEK 451000, the income shall be calculated at 3,75 pst."(a) § 7-12, sixth paragraph, the following should be assumed:"Percent income is calculated at 1,875 pst. the proportion of the property's Equation Value on 1 January of the Equation Year after deduction as provided for in paragraphs 7-11(d). However, for the part of the proportion of the value of the equation that before deduction exceeds NOK 451000, income shall be calculated with 3,75 pst.’5.§ 8-11, first subparagraph, the letters e, f and new h shall be assumed to be replaced by the following: in the early 20th century C.E. «participation in participating company, etc. as referred to in Section 10-40, which only owns the assets referred to under points (a) to (e) and where the income is determined in accordance with Sections 8 to 15.f. shares in companies referred to in paragraphs 10 to 60, which only hold the assets referred to in paragraphs a to f and where the income is determined in accordance with paragraphs 8 to 15.h. shares in non-resident unlisted companies engaged in shipping activities.» Paragraphs 8-11, second and third subparagraphs are assumed to be replaced by the following:» Share in companies referred to in the first paragraph e-h must be at least three per cent throughout the year of income. [[2]] The condition in the first sentence applies only to shareholders and members who are companies within the scheme. [[3]] The public limited-liability company, public limited-liability company and company referred to in point (g) of the first subparagraph must own the ship referred to in point (a) or (b) of the first subparagraph or the share or share of the company referred to in point (e) to (h) of the first subparagraph. Companies referred to in the first subparagraph, e-f, must own ships as referred to in the first subparagraph, a or b, or share in companies as referred to in the first subparagraph, e-f.§ 8-12 should be presumed to be replaced by the following:‘§ 8-12 Loans and guaranteesThe exemption from the share law, § 8-7, third paragraph, 2 does not apply to loans or guarantees for the benefit of group companies, cf. the share law and the general share law § 1-3, outside the scheme. The Tax Act § 13-1 nr. 2 shall also apply to loans and collateral between companies within the scheme. Similarly, for such arrangements provided to or for the benefit of taxpayers outside the scheme of direct or indirect participation in the company, or to the taxpayer's related interests. The taxpayer's parents, spouses, spouses' parents, children, grandchildren, cohabitants or cohabitants' parents are considered related."Sections 8 to 15 new second and third subparagraphs are assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Tonnes’ income calculated in accordance with Sections 8 to 16. [[2]] [[3]] Interest income, gains on the realisation of shares and other financial income, excluding foreign exchange gains and losses, are taxable. The corresponding costs and losses are deductible. However, this does not apply to the gain or loss on the realisation of the share referred to in paragraphs 8-11(d) to (h) of the first subparagraph. Costs and losses after the second sentence that exceed income after the first sentence shall be deducted only from the portion allocated to the company's carrying amount of financial assets by reference to the ratio of carrying amount to financial assets at the end of the year of income. The foreign exchange gains and losses are included in income or deducted according to the same ratio. The deficit after this paragraph is deducted from income after the eighth subparagraph. Deficits generated in accordance with the rules of this paragraph may be carried forward against subsequent income in accordance with the rules of Sections 14 to 6. The deficits resulting from this paragraph shall not be deducted from income determined by the fifth and sixth paragraphs and by the third paragraphs of Sections 8 to 14. The provision in Sections 10 to 43 on the deduction limit does not apply when determining the income referred to in this paragraph in the case of merchants and depositors within the scheme, or in the case of members of the scheme holding a holding in companies referred to in Sections 10 to 60."Sections 8 to 15 new eighth paragraph should be assumed to read as follows:» If a company referred to in Sections 8 to 10 has a liability less than half of the company's equity at the end of the year of income, the difference is considered to be multiplied by a normal interest rate of taxable profit. [[8]] The standard rate shall be set by the Ministry and shall reflect the borrowing rate which the companies are facing in the market. The imputed income supplements under this provision are deducted in determining the income or losses referred to in paragraphs 8 to 15 above. Paragraphs 8 to 16 are assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Distribution of capital by companies as referred to in Sections 8 to 11h shall not be taxed’.Sections 8 to 16 are assumed to be replaced by the following:‘Sections 8 to 16 Tonnes of income Shareholders and public limited liability companies as referred to in Sections 8 to 10 shall, as general taxable income, make annual revenue a tonnage income for ships and portable equipment the company owns, calculated by net tonnage at the following rates:0 kronor for the first 1000 net tons, then72 kronor per. Day per day 1000 net tonnes up to 10000 net tonnes, then 48 kroner per. Day per day 1000 net tonnes up to 25000 net tonnes, then 24 kroner per. Day per day 1000 net tons. Income calculated after the first and second sentences shall also be calculated for contracted ships and mobile devices when the owner is not liable to pay taxes to Norway for the rental of the ship or device. [[1]] The provisions of Sections 10-41 and 10-65 apply mutatis mutandis. [[2]] The Ministry may provide detailed rules for the implementation of this paragraph, including provision that tonnage income shall not be calculated when the ship or mobile device is in storage or out of service for a continuous period of more than three months during the year of income. The Ministry may also decide that the lessee shall not calculate tonnage income if the other lessee within the scheme is obliged to calculate tonnage income for the same ship or device during the same period."Sections 8-17, third paragraph, should be assumed to be replaced by the following:» The Company shall not be deemed to have expired after the first paragraph (b) if the breach of the conditions under Sections 8-11, 8-12 and 8-13, first and second subparagraphs, is corrected within two months of the occurrence of the breach. [[3]] Nor is the company considered to have resigned after paragraph (b) of the first subparagraph if the obligation to withdraw, in relation to the nature and extent of the breach, the diligence of taxpayers and other circumstances, would involve disproportionate action against the company. The first sentence and the second sentence shall not apply in the event of repeated breach of the conditions of Sections 8 to 12 and the first and second paragraphs of Sections 8 to 13 within three years of the correction of the previous breach. This provision does not extend the time-limits laid down in the fourth and fifth paragraphs of § 8-11.»Sections 8-18, third to fifth paragraphs, are assumed to be replaced by the following:» Distribution as referred to in Section 8-15, sixth paragraph, a paragraph. 3 shall be counted as dividends on the hand of the receiving shareholder, cf. [[3]] [[4]] § 10-10 to § 10-13. a. Companies within the scheme may provide and receive group contributions from other companies within the scheme provided that the conditions for the right to provide and receive group contributions under Sections 10 to 4 are met.b. The group contribution paid is deductible for giving under § 10-12 and taxable for recipients under § 10-13. Deductions by donors are limited to net taxable profit as set out below. § 8-15 third and eighth paragraphs.c. Group contributions after (a) which are not deductible from the giver and are provided by non-taxable income are not taxed by the recipient. The group contribution referred to in the preceding subparagraph, which is provided by taxable income, is added to the taxable income account of the beneficiary. Group contributions which are not deductible from giving are first considered to be taken from the company's taxed income account, see [[5]] Section 8-15, fourth paragraph. Companies whose income is determined by: Paragraphs 8-15 may attribute to their taxed capital account an amount calculated at the foreign tax divided by one hundredth of the Norwegian tax rate on general income, so far as the foreign tax rate is less or equal to the general tax rate on general income. If the foreign tax rate is higher than the Norwegian tax rate, the entire income subject to taxation abroad shall be added to the taxed capital account."§6.14-43 should be assumed to be replaced by the following:‘§14-43 Depreciation rates Balance of operating assets, etc. [[1]] as referred to in the first subparagraph of Sections 14 to 41 may be written off up to the following rate: a. office machines and the like – 30 pst.b. acquired business value – 30 pst.c. Vehicle combinations, trucks,buses, vans,driving cars and vehicles for transporting disabled persons – 25 pst.d. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furnishings, etc. – 20 p.e. ships, vessels, rigging, etc. – 20 pst.f. aeroplane, helicopter – 12 pst.g. plants for the transmission and distribution of electricity and electrical equipment in power undertakings – 5 pst.h. constructions, hotels, lodges, shelters, etc. – 4 pst.i. business building – 2 pst. [[2]] Construction mentioned under h, and i, located in the municipality or part of the municipality as per 31 December of the year of revenue falls within the geographical scope of regional policy instruments managed by the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund and by the counties can be depreciated at a double rate. [[3]] The increased depreciation rate also applies to the balance for construction with such a simple design that it must be considered to have a useful life of not more than 20 years from the entry. The balance of such buildings may be amortised by up to 10 p.m..7.The law on the payment and collection of taxes is assumed to be new § 12A-1 to read:‘The employer who has, or has, been employed on board ships on board is exempt from the obligation under the terms of this provision to send settlement of advance payments to the tax collector as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 12. [[1]] [[2]] The exemption covers advances referred to in Chapter II of this Act, deducted from wages and salaries and other allowances for employees who are taxable in Norway and who are subject to Law No 26 March 1999. 14 on taxes on wealth and income The employer who will rely on the exemption referred to in the first subparagraph must submit information and documentation, as specified in the form drawn up by the Tax Directorate, within the same time-limits for the payment of advances. [[3]] The form is sent to the tax collector in the municipality where the employer belongs or has his head office. [[4]] The exemption referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply if the taxable person does not provide a tax card or the employer has not otherwise obtained the information shown in the tax card. [[5]] Where the amount of the tax on the equation exceeds the amount of the advance due to the taxable person, the rules of Section 23 of this Act apply. [[6]] Is retained advances under this provision greater than the tax equalised, cf. Paragraph 24 of this Act provides that the excess amount shall be refunded by the employer on the claim of the tax collector after the equation for the employee concerned has been drawn up. Otherwise, the rules of § 31 of this Act apply. 4th@item: inlistbox Amounts less than NOK 1000 per employee shall not be reimbursed by the employer. [[7]] This provision does not alter the other rights and obligations of the employee or employer under other legislation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the authorising officer may lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of this provision.8.In the law on popular security, it is assumed that the new ninth subparagraph should be replaced by the following:‘The employer who is exempted from the obligation to send settlements for advance payments under the Tax Payment Act § 12A-1 is exempt from the payment of an employer’s contribution under the same conditions.The present ninth to the twelfth subparagraph becomes the tenth to the thirteenth subparagraph.The changes are assumed to enter into force on 1 January 2003 with effect from the 2003 year of income.’ [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e627	Per Ove Width has taken up it presented he referenced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e630	I refer to the debate on the matter in Odelstinget, and, on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, I am delighted to make the following suggestions: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. The second sentence of the second paragraph of § 5-15 is presumed to be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e642	Petter Løvik has taken up what he submitted. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. There will be a vote first on behalf of the Progress Party from Per Ove Wideth, then on behalf of Anne Helen Rui on behalf of the Labour Party, then on behalf of Anne Helen Rui on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre, then on behalf of Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, then on behalf of Anne Helen Rui on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and finally on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e665	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e679	I would like to make the following proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘The decision of the fine is not accepted.Remark of the provision:New Paragraphs 6 to 2 are assumed to be replaced by the following:’Sections 6 to 2 Resettlement, cancellation and breach of a debt arrangement at the request of a claimantIn the case of an application for a claimant, whose claims are covered by the debt regime, the right may convert a debt regime if there are significant improvements in the debtor’s financial position during the period of the debt arrangement. If the improvement is the result of the debtor’s receipt of a larger amount, the amount may be distributed in whole or in part among the creditors without the initiation of the conversion proceedings. The right may also, at the request of a creditor, whose claims are covered by the indebted regime, convert a debt arrangement if the debtor's dwelling during the period of the debt arrangement has increased so much in value in relation to the valuation in accordance with paragraphs 4 to 7 that, in the circumstances, it would be unreasonable for the debtor to retain the entire increase in value. If such conversion results in disposal of the dwelling, the debtor has the right to retain sufficient of the sum of sales to obtain another owner-occupied dwelling, such as in terms of size, standard and location, etc. If the debtor has been guilty of dishonesty or has seriously breached his obligations under the debt regime, the court may, at the request of a claimant, whose claims are covered by the indebted regime, suspend the indebtedness regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e701	Anne Helen Rui has taken up what she presented referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e704	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note of the layer:New Paragraphs 6 to 4 are assumed to be replaced by the following:’Sections 6 to 4. The debtor's obligation to disclose to the debtorsIf there are circumstances which the debtor understands or must be understood to confer on the debtor the right of conversion or infringement under Paragraphs 6 to 2 within a reasonable period and, as a general rule, within a period of one month, to inform the creditor and the debtor accordingly in a manner which is satisfactory.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e722	Per Ove Width has taken up it presented he referenced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e725	I refer to the debate on the matter in Odelstinget and am delighted to present the following proposals on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox § 1-16 is expected to be deleted.2. Paragraph 4-2, first paragraph, new third sentence, should be deleted.3. § 4-8, first paragraph, first sentence is assumed to be deleted.4. § 4-8(c) is assumed to be replaced by the following: « Tax claimsTax and fee claims that would be the priority of bankruptcy under the Coverage Act Chapter 9 are fully covered before payment is made to unpriority claims. [[c]] As a deadline for debt negotiations, the opening date is used, cf. The law here, §3-1. Tax claims incurred after the opening date are not covered by the debt regime, unless the requirement is the result of the debtor’s having had an excessive advance over the period of the debt regime, which has resulted in a higher dividend than if the draw was correct. Correspondingly, for tax requirements established by decision after the date of opening.»5. § 4-8, second and third paragraphs are assumed to be deleted.6. Paragraph 5-2, first paragraph, sixth sentence, should be deleted.7. Paragraphs 6 to 2 of the fourth paragraph are assumed to be replaced by the following:‘If, within five years of the end of the period of the debt arrangement, the debtor receives inheritance, gain or similar of a significant extent, the right of use may, at the request of a creditor whose claims are covered by the debt regime, set aside the debt regime in whole or in part to the extent that the debtor’s economy and the consideration of the debtors so warrant. The debt regime may not be set aside because of the gain due to the increase in the value of the dwelling.»»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e763	Petter Løvik has taken up what he submitted. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox There will be a vote first on behalf of the Advance Party from Per Ove Width, then on behalf of Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, and finally on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e784	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e798	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to make the following proposals: «The decision of the jury is not accepted.Note:§ 6 The change in the danger according to § 3 and § 4 of the Courts is assumed to be as follows:"The child and each parent can always sue for a fathership after marriage or confirmation. If the child is unauthorized, the matter is raised by an accommodating court. If the child is 15 years old, he cannot raise a case without the consent of the child. When there are particular reasons for this, the County Iron Agency may raise a case. Whoever thinks he's the father of the child can until the child reaches the age of three raise a case about the father. The case must be raised within one year of the date on which the applicant was aware of the information, however, so that the time limit is calculated at the earliest from the date of birth of the child. The Court of First Instance may, in its judgment, derogate from the three-year period where there are particular grounds for so doing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e814	Anne Helen Rui has taken up what she presented referred to. No more people have asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e825	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e840	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e856	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e872	On behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, I support the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. It is recommended that Odelstingen should refer to the legislative proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e884	Anne Helen Rui has taken up what she presented referred to. No more people have asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e895	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e909	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e925	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e941	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e957	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e973	On behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the court is not accepted.Note:1.The Criminal Procedure Act § 446, first paragraph, point (a) is presumed to be replaced by the following:‘a) has actively discouraged disclosure of the case’2. The second sentence of § 13, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘In cases of compensation following criminal proceedings under Chapter 31 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the claimant is entitled to free counsel without trial.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e995	Anne Helen Rui has taken up what she presented referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1006	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1020	On behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to make the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. The first paragraph of Section 62 of the Criminal Code is assumed to be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1032	Anne Helen Rui has taken up what she presented referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1035	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nobleman is not accepted.Note:In the Penal Code, the first paragraph of Section 62 is assumed to be replaced by the following:‘If any person in the same or in different acts has committed several crimes or offences, a separate penalty shall be imposed for each offence or offence which is committed as a result. The Common Penalty of Freedom is set at prison where any of the criminal offences would have resulted in such punishment. If the sum of the various sentences results in a longer sentence than prison for 21 years, the sentence of freedom shall be limited to prison for 30 years. However, this restriction does not apply if the judgment is based on § 39 and § 39 a- 39 g. »»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1051	Per Ove Width has taken up it presented he referenced. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox There will be a vote first on behalf of the Progress Party from Per Ove Width and then on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party from Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1069	The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1083	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-upper.ana.ud863e1099	No one has asked for the floor. The decision at Odelstinget has thus been accepted by Lagtinget, and the law decision will be to send the King in accordance with the Constitution.
