ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e61	The representative of Sylvia Brustad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e64	On behalf of the representative Jens Stoltenberg and myself, I would like to propose a government loan or guarantee scheme for those who find it difficult to pay exceptional high electricity costs, to increase the rates of light and heat in the housing aid to become more consistent with the real costs and to assess changes or exemptions from the NVE's invoicing regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e69	The representative of Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e72	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to propose a new assessment of all aspects of the Snow White Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e77	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e104	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e115	The Energy and Environment Committee today presents its position on St.meld. No 38 for 2001-2002, on oil and gas activities. The Committee has had a good process in this matter, consultation with interested parties, and the fractions have had broad contact with oil companies, environmental organisations and fisheries organisations from different parts of the country. I would like to thank the members of the committee and the committee secretary for their solid work. Petroleum activities are of major importance to the Norwegian community. In 2001, it accounted for approx. 23 pst. of gross domestic product and 45 pst. of Norwegian exports. The Committee is therefore united in its view that it is important to ensure that petroleum activities become a significant contributor to the financing of the welfare society and to industrial development throughout the country in the future. However, it is not unexpected that there will be disagreement in the Committee on the extent of these activities in the future and how we will achieve a satisfactory balance between the environment, fisheries and oil and gas activities. The entire Committee agrees with comments that point to the challenges of increasing the extraction rate of oil and gas in existing fields and points to the need for authorities to establish framework conditions to stimulate this. An offensive strategy is needed to exploit established fields in the form of tail production, and we need to get further search in smaller fields. This also allows new and smaller companies to apply to extract such fields. Oil and gas activities are of major importance to other industries and not least to technological developments for the supplier industry. This is also agreed by the entire committee. As the rapporteur, I have found it right to point out a number of comments where all parties in the committee have been in agreement in their views. In my opinion, it is important in a case like the one we have to deal with today, that there is the broadest possible response to the policy put forward by the Government. It is important to maintain stability in the political leadership of oil and gas activities. It is one of the advantages Norway may have compared to some other oil producing countries. That is why I am pleased that the government parties and the Workers' Party, and partly the Advance Party, have gathered on some comments and otherwise support the content of the notification. Let me then comment a little bit further on the course the majority of the committee wants to follow. The notification is based on what it calls the long-term development path, which aims to ensure that the oil will generate significant revenues from a 50-year perspective and gas from a 100-year perspective. To achieve this, it requires both increased extraction in existing fields and the opening of new oil and gas provinces for exploration and extraction of petroleum products. There are huge gains if you can increase the extraction rate of the oil fields to 50 p.p., from today approx. 44 pst. This is a key challenge for rightholders and operators. However, it is also important that the Ministry of Oil and Energy assess whether there are sufficient incentives today to achieve such a goal. To get a development that the long-term development path describes, new search areas and new findings are also needed. 60 pst. the value creation of the long-term development pathway is based on oil and gas resources that have not yet been found. It is assumed that about one tenth of Norway’s total petroleum resources, or one quarter of its expected resources, are in the Barents Sea. Activities in the north are therefore a prerequisite for the desired development path. While there are still some exploration areas in the North Sea that can produce results, optimism is greatest for new petroleum findings in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. There must be a requirement in this context to ensure that such exploration and extraction can take place without significant adverse effects on the environment and so that the rich fish resources do not become harmful. The requirement for zero emissions at sea is crucial in this context and requires close cooperation between oil companies and research institutes. Strict requirements are required for petroleum activities in the northern regions. The government has in the Sem statement specifically addressed this, and I quote from it: ‘The cooperative government will carry out an impact assessment of all-year petroleum activities in the northern sea areas of Lofoten and northwards. Until such a plan is in place, the Barents Sea shall not be opened further to petroleum activities.» It is on this basis that the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Government Parties, ‘provides that this impact assessment will be sufficiently thorough and comprehensive to provide a sound basis for addressing the issue of further petroleum activities in the area’. This does not mean, as some tabloid media describe it, that it is now free from the north. The impact assessment is precisely aimed at identifying possible problems with petroleum activities in the northern regions, and any problems that need to be assessed once the investigation and consultation opinions have emerged. But now there are hardly any people who believe that such investigations have quite clear conclusions. Therefore, political leadership is also required in this case to assess what is relevant, the seriousness of any problems and the specific requirements to be imposed on rightholders and operators. The main considerations are, of course, the value creation potential of the petroleum industry on the one hand, and the consideration of fisheries and environmental interests on the other. It is the hope and belief of the majority that these issues can find good solutions based on the extensive work that has been done in the past in the northern regions and which is updated and continued in the impact assessment. There has been a widespread perception that oil and gas come almost from the seabed by themselves and that the incomes of society are safe incomes. This is, of course, a completely wrong opinion. In some way, if we are to secure our future revenues from this activity, it will require constant technological breakthroughs, in seismics, extractive techniques, transport systems, etc. Not least for our entire industrial environment, with the possibility of large deliveries to operators, this is of great importance. But if we are to succeed in keeping a good, technologically strong supplier industry, the activity on Norwegian base must be stable. Mountain and valley activities will lead to the disappearance of competence from such enterprises. This is what makes a good combination of exploration and extraction so important. As in all other sectors, market developments are central. We've seen throughout our oil era the great variations that are on the price side. Of course, the price of oil and gas is crucial for future revenues. The majority of the Committee points out that the Government will follow the development of the market balance in the oil market and refers to current practices whereby the Government informs the Stortinget in an appropriate manner in the case of any production regulatory measures. It is important that conditions are facilitated for us to have a competitive oil and gas industry in Norway, while at the same time being able to compete internationally. This, together with close cooperation with the international oil companies, could also contribute to the participation of the Norwegian supplier industry in projects internationally. However, there are clear indications that our supplier industry is losing competitiveness. It will be important for this part of our business to be able to adapt skills and cost levels to ensure delivery in the future. Following the assessment of the Joint Committee, it is particularly important to have good cooperation with Russia on oil and gas activities in the north. Russia has large oil and gas resources in these areas, and it is important that good cooperation on health, environment and safety can be achieved in their development, and that sufficient account is taken of the fishing resources in the area and of the reproductive capacity of the fish. It helps little if, on our side in the Barents Sea, we impose a number of exploration and extraction requirements, unless the same caution is applied to larger neighbouring areas. We are facing major challenges in the further development of our petroleum resources. There has been no significant finding of oil fields since 1986. The long-term development path will ensure our level of well-being from a 100-year perspective. However, it requires considerable efforts to ensure this value creation in co-existence with fisheries and with a good environmental profile. Today's debate is a very important debate in this respect. Let me add a couple of sentences about the exceedances of Snow White. It is very regrettable and unacceptable that such an important project fails so decisively on the planning and investment side, not least because both the position and opposition on the Stortinget asked critical questions to the builder about the plans and profitability of the project. It is crucial for subsequent projects to be decided by the Storting that individual builders can trust that the calculations and investment calculations presented are quality-proof and good enough to make such important decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e169	Environment and industry must work together. It has been and is a prerequisite for the oil and gas activities and other industries in Norway. In this context, I would like to thank in particular the representative of Onarheim, but also the government parties, for the constructive cooperation during the examination of this communication. For they might as well have ended up in a majority with SV, which would spend future investment in the oil sector on welfare goods. We know how it would work. At that time, revenue would have disappeared in the long term, and welfare would have been threatened. Industry is now in a serious situation. We see that more and more rigs are put into circulation. More and more people are being sanctioned and terminated. It also referred to the majority of the Committee in its comments. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, say that we are facing a serious deterioration in Norwegian industry and other competitive activities. This isn't on the right. I would therefore like to receive an assessment from the representative of Onarheim on this issue. So finally, when the representative says that it's unacceptable with the exceedances of Snow White, it's a little alarming, because according to the Council of State, the Minister of Oil and Energy, has said, it's accepted by the Government. Then my question is, what does the representative of Onarheim put in that it is ‘unacceptable’ with such exceedances?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e178	The representative Klungland points to the industry situation – I don't think the representative needs to worry that I don't have the same concern that he has. It's important that we now have a steady development, as I said in my post, that we have activities going, so that we don't get a mountain and valley situation. On the other hand, we do not exclude that the companies themselves also have a significant responsibility, and this is not least in relation to cost development and wage development. There are also a number of factors that need to be considered in order for these companies to be able to compete, not only in Norway, but also internationally. Otherwise, I have no problem agreeing that it is important that we now look at this with fresh and new eyes to see how we are going to make this part of our industry work properly. When it comes to my conclusion, I have to say that I said that because I am quite upset that you can have such a big deviation from a calculation, even though it is a difficult and complicated project that you start on Snow White. When I say that is unacceptable, it is to give a signal also from those who basically have a very friendly attitude to the oil companies, that more attention must be paid to getting correct calculations and proper development plans, so that you do not get into this situation again and again. I think it is absolutely vital for confidence in this industry that you can prove that you have really gone deep into the issues and can provide realistic calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e189	In the newspaper last Saturday we could read this big headline: «Yes to oil drilling in the Barents Sea». And I quote: ‘A day of joy, right-wing energy and environmental politician Leif Frode Onarheim believes that the majority of Stortingen facilitates oil activities in the Barents Sea.’ After reading this, I began to wonder if the representative of Onarheim and I had the same setting to deal with us. But after reading further down the article, I found the following: ‘Yes, I believe this decision can open up oil business. But the impact assessment will determine how the activity can be’... “Even he wants and hopes for activity in the Barents Sea.” On the basis of this, I would like to ask the representative of Onarheim what decision he refers to in the article. The only proposal for a decision that says this is the Progress Party, and at least we are in the vote alone on this. Or is it that Onarheim and the government parties support our proposal, so that he gets the activity he wants from the newspaper, and that we can have the joy of the day that both Onarheim and the oil industry obviously look forward to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e204	The representative, Mr. Waksdal, and I have been exposed to the fact that headlines and ingresses are not always entirely consistent with what is below, and as you have really said. The joy I expressed was that a majority position had been reached. I was a little bit in doubt if we could make it. It was joyous. The second thing that is pleasing is that the message is given to the majority, and the message describes all these things. The reason why you have a special comment that you worked with the Working Party a little bit back and forth was just to clarify what you really meant. So my opinion is that we have a message that forms a good basis. We cannot initiate an impact assessment without seeing what it contains. But it is our hope and our faith, as I said, that it will be so fundamental and so thorough that it is possible to make a decision on the continuation of petroleum activity in the northern regions, in the Barents Sea. The hope is, of course, that you should find oil and gas that is propelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e211	Snow White Saka has appeared, and in the setting associated with Snow White Saka a multiple of: ‘Although the project appears to have a robust economy’... ‘Do not tolerate the project’s large exceedances...’ If one heard the debate on the radio today early, where it was found that a majority of the population has moved by 135 million. kr in relation to a kindergarten settlement, one must start to wonder what is going to happen now when we are talking about 5.8 billion kroner in excess – or two opera houses, which are actually talking about. I believe that the case-speaker calls this unacceptable. But then, as a responsible politician, he should put his foot down, stop and see if this project should actually be implemented, as SV has proposed today. So my first question to Onarheim is about a 5.8 billion kroner overrun does not require a review based on that, that the project does not tolerate large overruns. My other question is what many people have been talking about, this at the pace of the Barents Sea. So SV added Onarheim plural for what is in the Sem Declaration. Nevertheless, Onarheim chose to go to the Labour Party to negotiate a different result from what is stated in the Sem Declaration. The question then is: is it true what Stavanger Aftenblad wrote yesterday that the impact assessment must contain a conclusion that one can start in 2003? Or is it, in fact, as the Sem Declaration says, that all the gaps in knowledge must be tested? What do the Right and Government really mean about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e225	As for what to do on Snow White, there is something that belongs to the operator and the board of directors for the development. Having said that, I have to say that I feel quite at home compared to considering just such projects. What is now done is "sunk cost", to say it this way, you will never get that money back. What needs to be assessed now is the current costs from now on to the completion of the project. That's what you can now calculate for profitability, because the second thing is already lost, that money's gone. There has to be a case that the board of directors of the project, the rightholders, have to decide, and it is clear that the state is also strong inside since it has large interests. I think the Sem declaration is quite clear. I read it quite differently than the representative of Langeland. It says: ‘The cooperative government will carry out an impact assessment of full-year petroleum activity in the northern sea areas of Lofoten and northwards. Until such a plan is in place, the Barents Sea shall not be opened further to petroleum activities.» As I read this, and as I have been assured, this impact assessment will, of course, produce a number of problem areas that need to be addressed. But it is not that an impact assessment provides answers to all questions. So in the first place, the government will have to look at what knowledge gaps might have to be reconstructed, what other means are available to you, and what will be required of the operators if you want to continue. So I don't see that there's any conflict between what you've got in this message, what's in the notes, and what's in the Sem statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e237	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e241	Norway is a significant oil and gas nation, and it has shaped Norwegian society for over 30 years. The industry has given us enormous values, provided us with many jobs both on land and at sea, and it has built up a considerable competence that it is important to take care of. From the start of the southern part of the North Sea, oil and gas extraction has expanded northwards. Security and the environment have thus received even greater attention in relation to the challenges in these marine areas, and it has also received attention during the consideration of this matter in the Committee. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee want the oil industry to remain an important industry for many years to come, and we support the so-called long-term development path. However, it is a demanding objective at a time when we unfortunately have to record that the interest in Norwegian socket has decreased. It's low search activity, and we see that the interest of foreign companies has decreased. We also see that many jobs are lost by day and that many are at risk because of this situation. Therefore, it is important that we give the industry the political signals that are needed for it to continue to have faith and willingness to bet on Norwegian pedestal. I am therefore pleased that it has been possible to reach an agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties, which gives clear signals. In particular, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his constructive cooperation. There is no doubt that the Barents Sea is the most debated, especially in relation to the challenges related to fisheries and the environment – and we must take this seriously. It is important, as the Labour Party and Government Parties assume, that the impact assessment for further all-year petroleum activities from the Lofoten and the North Sea, which are under way, will be thorough and comprehensive so that it can provide a good basis for dealing with the issue of further petroleum activities in the area, so that we can then determine which areas can be opened up for petroleum activities and which sea areas should be petroleum-free. I therefore assume that the Council of State will ensure that this impact assessment, which has been announced in the autumn of 2003, will be as good a tool as we need to make a decision. Then, in addition, we are in favour of the management plans for the area. There are still many identified oil and gas resources on the base that have not yet been extracted. One challenge that the Committee as a whole is how we can increase the rate of exploitation in the fields. An extraction rate of less than 50 pst. In oil fields, we can't settle down. For this, more research is needed, and I perceive that there is a broad consensus about it. In addition, it is nevertheless necessary to look at the framework conditions, including the tax and depreciation rules for so-called tail production and for small and marginal fields. As the Labour Party sees it, this will be very socio-economic, and we look forward to the Government following up on this too. So finally a few words about Snow White from my side. I will, of course, await the orientation of the Council of State, as I understand he will give later today, but I have to agree with most of what Mr Onarheim said in relation to this project. It is very serious about the exceedances we have now received on the table, but I will wait for further comments until I have heard the statement by the Council of State here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e259	It's always interesting to hear a working party politician talk about Norwegian oil and gas activity. The interesting thing is that you never fully know what is coming, because a few in the Workers' Party are for Norwegian oil and gas activity, others are both for and against, as the representative Brustad – can’t quite decide – while a third group is completely against it anyway. The last time we saw it was during the Snow White debate here in the hall. There are almost as many views in the Workers' Party on Norwegian oil and gas policy as the Workers' Party has members, or glaring representatives – and members and representatives are getting fewer, fortunately. Only to mention the names of the three groups mentioned above is the Groningensrepresentative Konglevoll, in any case. The representative voted against the Snow White extension, and has been opposed to activity in the northern regions – his own part of the country. In the case of the other group, to which the representative Brustad belongs, I refer to statements in the evening post, where the representative Brustad is both unclear and anti-oil and gas activity in the Barents Sea. And then to one of the few who's in favour of activity in the northern regions, big business representative Tore Nordtun. I quote from Stavanger Aftenblad December 6th: ‘The oil companies shall be allowed to continue drilling in areas already allocated. The oil company Agip is going to expand its Goliath find 80 kilometers from Hammerfest. And there will be new blocks in the Barents Sea as soon as possible." This pronounced Tore Nordtun from the Workers' Party. Since there are droughts in the oil industry and the industry is experiencing difficult conditions, why does the representative Brustad not agree with his party colleague Nordtun, so that it will again be active in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e271	I think the representative of Korsberg and we had all been served with whether the Progress Party concentrated on its own party and were not so concerned about other parties. I expect the representative of Korsberg to know well what is in the setting, and that there is a unanimous attitude on the part of the Labour Party in this matter. In addition, I would also like to point out very strongly that the Workers' Party, together with some other parties in this Chamber, has for many years been a driving force for Norway to be a large oil nation, and increasingly a gas nation. It is also fixed for future use by this setting. We also clearly state that we are concerned about the low search activity, that we are concerned about jobs that are now being lost, and that we are concerned about falling interest from foreign companies. That is exactly why I am very pleased that we have received a majority by working with the government parties and give clear signals that we need a thorough impact assessment in relation to the Barents Sea, and that it comes to the harvest. So we're assuming that on the basis of it we can decide what to do next. However, unlike the Progress Party, we are concerned that we must also take account of environmental and fisheries interests. That, in all contexts of environmental policy, the Party of Advancement is to shake its head, ridicule it, etc., is to be given the responsibility of the Party of Advancement. But I demand respect for the fact that it's allowed to have two thoughts in my head at once: being in order for us to have oil activity, using gas in the future as well, but at the same time thinking that it would be wrong if we didn't also give ourselves time and opportunity to assess what it means in relation to environmental and fisheries challenges. That is why we have called for a thorough impact assessment, and we expect that on the basis of it we can decide what to do next. It is not unclear, I think it is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e283	I think it's a little strange that the Workers' Party, like Right, also chooses a strategy in relation to the excesses on Snow White where one disclaims a bit of the responsibility that one has. Now we have a $5.8 billion negative that far. We don't know how much that amount will eventually be, it's probably going to be much bigger. What the majority said during the treatment of Snow White was that this project does not tolerate large exceedances. So my question is, is 5.8 billion dollars a great exceedance? If it is, should one not reconsider, stop and think about what one does before one gets even more calculations? I also remember that Statoil for two years ago actually didn't want to expand the field, but then did a grip here in this hall, a change of tax rules so Statoil went back on as a builder. So here the political majority must not disclaim the responsibility for the bills that are now coming. The political majority has absolutely a responsibility here. So to what I still think is a little bit unclear. The Labour Party representative from Rogaland, who is named, has pressed for speeding up the Barents Sea. In my opinion, that is what is stated in the setting, in relation to the official statement made by the Workers' Party. But when we now hear the representative Brustad, I become a little more uncertain. I wonder: What has the Labour Party achieved in the negotiations with the representative of Onarheim and the Government in relation to the opening of the Barents Sea? Is it the case that the Labour Party has had an impact that one should start drilling when the first impact assessment is carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e292	I will first answer the question about Snow White and about SEK 5.8 billion is a great exceedance. Yes, it is clearly a great exceedance. It's too much exceedance, and it's very serious that we get as much exceedance in such an early stage of a project as this is. That means that this has to be taken seriously, that means that when such things happen, it is important that the Storting is informed very quickly. But I don't want to say anything more now until I hear what the council briefs us on, a little later today. With regard to the Barents Sea, I believe that the Workers' Party has achieved that we are now giving clearer signals than it could be before this treatment. What I think is quite clear in that decision is that we assume that the impact assessment will be thorough, good and comprehensive, and that work I have already understood is under way. When we get this investigation to the autumn, unless something special arises, we can get a basis for making a decision on where to go – where to open it and where to be free of petroleum, if that is the conclusion. I think that's the clear signal from a majority of the committee, and of course I assume that the government is following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e299	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e302	Norwegian oil and gas activities will play a vital role in the industrial development of the country in the years to come and will also make a significant contribution to the financing of the welfare society. It is therefore essential that we facilitate the conditions to ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian base, so that we will continue to ensure the necessary investments in the future. The government's announcement provides a good description of the reality of the state of things, and two trajectories for the continental shelf are outlined. One is the path of weather, and the other is the long-term path of development. It is hardly surprising that the Progress Party supports the long-term development path. To achieve this, it helps little with just beautiful words and pious desires. In addition, active action is required. A unanimous committee writes that ‘In the future, investments will be important in order to achieve a greater degree of extraction in the existing fields’. It is also written that: «the authorities should therefore provide a framework which makes it profitable to increase the rate of extraction and to facilitate the profitable extraction of smaller oil and gas fields». So far, everything's fine. But what do you do to achieve this? Unfortunately, little or nothing. The Progress Party put forward proposals in the financial position for a review of the tax regime on the socket, in particular with a view to providing incentives for profitable niche and tail production, without receiving support for this. Today, we are promoting proposals to reduce a wide-ranging range of oil industries, which are to review the current tax regime in order to improve this and to develop incentives for niche and tail production. Here, too, we are all alone. It once again shows that the majority doesn't mean anything about what they write in the setting. Another important contribution to increasing the rate of exploitation is, of course, focusing on research and development. It is worrying that, as the largest player on the base, the State does not contribute any more to this type of research, all the time it is the State that will gain most of the profit by increasing the rate of exploitation. I have on several occasions made proposals to set up a petroleum research fund of DKK 10 billion, where the return will go to this type of activity and research. This too has gone against the bulk of the population. However, I am pleased that the majority has now asked the Government to come to Stortinget with alternative models of public co-financing of this research, including a petroleum-oriented research fund. Of course, in order to achieve the objectives of the long-term development pathways, it is essential that new oil and gas provinces are also open to both exploration and extraction. Here, too, a majority of the committee says very nicely, but here too there is a lack of concrete action. Despite the fact that hundreds of millions have been spent on extensive investigations, there is a need to re-examine and re-examine. Not enough with that – the majority cannot say clearly today that when the last impact assessment is completed the next harvest, if no new, insoluble problems are found, you give a clear signal. Once again, the Progress Party is all alone. If the Norwegian base is still attractive, we must give clear signals to the oil industry that we will provide the new and prospective areas as well as framework conditions that must be long-term and stable. It is also important for our supplier industry to have equal access to assignments, so that we avoid redundancies and omissions and fragmentation of competences that take decades to build up. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e334	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e339	Sometimes I think, so fine it would have been to live in the world of the Advance Party. In the world of the Progress Party, there are many simple solutions to complex questions. If the Advance Party had only done as they would, we would apparently have had both lower taxes, no fees, cheaper kindergartens, perfect hospitals, all the elderly would be happy, we would have had cheaper spirits, cheaper bacon, cheaper gasoline and no environmental problems. It's just one problem: in the real world, the calculation doesn't go up to the Progress Party. In the real world, we cannot solve the challenges in the health sector with a fingertip. In the real world there are environmental problems, and we have to take them seriously. Not unexpectedly, the Progress Party in this setting has placed itself on a barrel and drive line for oil extraction in the Barents Sea. The progress party says, on the contrary, no to an overall investigation – they will start now, and preferably yesterday. But the Progress Party has recently begun to become a slightly more responsible party. And I'd like to ask, doesn't the Progress Party see any problems in operating oil in the Barents Sea? Doesn't the Progress Party even see that there are some areas of the Barents Sea where it may at least be a little bit problematic? The second question concerns research. It is fine that the Progress Party in this position and in the debate here is concerned with research. But it was so that when they were going to cooperate with the Government about the budget, they got a big cut in research, for example. within CO2 free gas power plants. This weakens research in this area in Norway, an area in which Norway is well ahead of the international community. And I wonder how the Progress Party thinks there's a connection between word and action here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e351	I heard a little about the Progress Party's world from the representative, Konglevoll, and I appreciated that – it's going to be so much better for most people, and that's quite right. Of course, I would like to welcome Konglevoll and the Norwegian Labour Party after – and they often come after a few years. It was about that we stood for a tune and driving policy when it was about this with the Barents Sea. I'm going to reject that most strongly. We've consistently figured out the walls and we're going down. We've spent many, many years and a half billion dollars in different investigation projects. We believe this has been investigated enough, but we have recorded that both the industry and others have accepted this investigation that is currently in progress. And when it is finished until the harvest – if there are no serious problems – it is time to say ‘go’. When it comes to research, we've been working on it for a long time. But, as the representative of Konglevoll well knows, the term ‘CO2-free gas power plant’ does not exist today. It's not possible to do that,' says all the researchers. But now they have replaced and say “gas power with CO2 management”. Everyone says that this can be up at the earliest and go about approx. 10 years. So we don't want to spend money on the kind of things that are so far ahead of us, which are so uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e360	Oil and gas policy is important for Norway. It is important for the industry with stable assumptions, including stable policy assumptions — in other words, maximum consensus and predictability. During the examination of the Snow White project less than 10 months ago, the Progress Party said about the impact assessment for the Barents Sea: ‘These members find it totally unnecessary to have further impact assessments on the Barents Sea.’ As you know, no complete impact assessment has been carried out so far. Government lots and the Workers' Party shall provide for a clear procedure on the basis of which decisions on future petroleum activities are to be taken. Today, in the comments in the setting, the Progress Party says: ‘The Government requests that drilling in already granted licences may be carried out as soon as the ongoing impact assessment for the Lofoten-Barents Sea has been carried out and if it does not identify significant and new problem areas.’ It is gratifying that the party of progress here has met the parties of government and the Workers' Party significantly, but in particular the reverse operation is not predictable. Then it becomes interesting if Waksdal can tell us others – and especially the oil industry – why he has changed his mind about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e379	I agree with the Halleraker representative that this industry may need above others both long-term and stable framework conditions, for this requires huge investments that will not waste any of them for many, many years. So that's where we agree. In the case of further impact assessments, I said quite clearly in my previous reply that we have accepted that the industry has also accepted that a new investigation should be carried out, but we were not initially a member of it. As far as I am aware, there have been 174 different investigations, and that has been spent NOK 0.5 billion. What we say clearly today is that we want to drill the allocated licences as soon as the latest impact assessment is completed, if there are no problems there that can't be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e386	Today I am very curious about where the pain limit of the Progress Party really goes. We've been clearly demonstrated in the past that an opera building costing NOK 3 billion caused terrible pain, as they did the "rack" and felt sick. How many billions in exceedances do we have to look at the Snow White project before it starts to get uncomfortable with the Progress Party? Three billion kroner was obviously quite fine, but 5.8! It's two opera houses. At least it has to hurt a little bit – if not otherwise, given that more and more people are starting to question what Statoil really is doing up there in the Snow White field. That they cheat of money is raised above any doubt. But that to those degrees they have led the Storing behind the light with the estimates, is alarming. Of course, such projects involve a certain degree of uncertainty in relation to the economy, but also in relation to environmental damage. That's why we in SV are followers of the precautionary principle. We have no illusions that the Progress Party must share SV's concerns about the environmental and fisheries interests in the region, but money is actually a language we expect the Progress Party to understand. The representative of Onarheim has called the exceedances unacceptable. So my question to the Progress Party and the representative, Vaksdal, is: How high does it take to estimate the excess costs to make the government's best friend and budget buddy feel that the responsibility weighs – and lowers the foothold of this unwise use of money on the Snow White project?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e395	I record that the representative Vaggen Malvik is concerned with the pain limit of the Advance Party. With regard to the Snow White project, we in the Progress Party are also seriously concerned about the cost developments that have taken place. It may seem that there has been a poor overview by the operator when a filed the matter. But as far as I know, the Council of State will be briefing on this at a little later. Then we might get answers to some of the questions about why it has gone so wrong as it has. We too are deeply concerned about this development. The cradle Malvik mentioned opera building. As I see it, we'll never make money on an opera building. The snow-white project will at least waste money, even if it has been a cost drop now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e407	I will record the suggestions from SV and the Center Party in Innst. S. No 80 and Innst. S. No Eighty-seven. The exceedance on Snow White corresponds to two opera buildings so far, but this is hardly the last bill. That's why we have to stop. When the Statoil Director now says that Snow White would not be started if he had known what he knows today, it is very serious. And when Hydro wants to withdraw from the project, it's also an important signal. Two years ago, Statoil said they wouldn't build Snow White. So a number in Stortinget decided to change the tax regime so that Statoil saw it profitable to build out. This is also the responsibility in this Chamber. That is why I am sorry that someone is trying to get away from it. That responsibility must be grown enough to take. SV will warn against further performance in this project. We want to invite the majority to join in securing us against new overruns, by doing a review of what it will cost to stop the expansion, and what the bill will ultimately be on this project. SV has been opposed to Snow White and to opening up oil and gas industries in Europe's food barrels. We fear the consequences for the environment and ecology. The problems associated with the environmental consequences are still our main objection. But when the economic consequences now start reporting, more people should stop. We've had Mongstad, we've had Åsgard. We've just got $5.8 billion in excess of Snow White, and the bill is probably going to be even larger. Now the Storting must take responsibility. I expect the Council of State to respond properly to the challenge that the Snow White field has given to the political plurality. SV suggests a lower and more stable activity in the oil and gas industry. We have proposed a governance to achieve this stability. This has been done over many years. Nevertheless, a number of them have chosen to follow the business cycle, which has given us a jojo effect, for example. in relation to the yard industry. For SV, the concern for the environment and the precautionary principle have led us to accept this stability. But, of course, we have also thought of the yard industry and the supplier industry, which depend on having stable jobs. The fact that the EEA agreement poses a problem for the shipbuilding industry is a problem that SV has been aware of for a long time. We are pleased that we are now likely to receive a breakdown of this in the context of the revised 2003 national budget. In connection with the processing of the oil and gas messages, SV has offered the Regeninga plural for its own policy in relation to the petroleum activity in the north. Point by point, SV and the Central Party have quoted the Sem declaration in order to avoid the pace of the North Sea and the Barents Sea. The working party in the media has wanted a higher pace, and they have probably had a certain impact on this. In this situation, the Right has sought more cooperation with the Labour Party than with the SV. That has been very clear. This may, of course, be regrettable from the premise that the Workers' Party has now been able to make an impact assessment. So, when you get this one, it should be so good that you can only start it. That's at least what I understand is the Labour Party's interpretation of what it says. I'm sorry about that. So if it turns out that the impact is a significant gap in knowledge, then if the Right Party and the Labour Party get their way, they won't get their way. SV is once again ready to give the Government multiples for a forward-looking and environment-friendly policy. The Labour Party and the Government Party set up a policy to open Europe’s food barrels for increased oil activity. It's a pity for SV, and we're going to fight it very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e430	Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e435	After reading SV's comments in the suspension and hearing the representative from Langeland here today, I am convinced that we would not have had any oil industry at all if SV had had a majority in this room. SV is known to most people, but in the setting there are a few exceptions. One is to make more use of the resources of existing oil wells, and the other is a concern about the activity of the supplier industry. We also know that SV is good at spending money on all good purposes. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Langeland: how does he intend to finance this when oil revenues disappear? And how worried is he really about the supplier industry and the jobs there, when his policy will obviously lead to all this being abandoned in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e444	Let me start with the claim that SV has money for all good purposes. There I must say that I feel strongly past the Progress Party, because they have money for the most part. They take as much money as they want from the oil fund, and they care very little about profile, as long as there's a certain amount of voters who think this is popular. So when it comes to it with responsibility and having money for good purposes, I thought he would rather look at how the Progress Party operates its policy for the time being. That would make more sense. Even though I see that the Progress Party is part of the plural and thus ensures that the Government gets a majority for the budget, they have a fraction of proposals that cost a lot of money outside. But it is important for SV and others to remember that this budget, which is approved and which leads to cuts, among other things. in energy research, environmental research, it is the Progress Party that has received. So to this that it wouldn't have been any oil fuel at all if it was up to SV. It's completely wrong. The SV is aware that one should follow the precautionary principle and that one should have proper environmental impact assessments before doing anything that could create environmental problems. That's why we've been so critical about the Snow White expansion, precisely because we don't think it's the basis for doing this now, because one doesn't have the technology needed to do this. In relation to the mission: SV has repeatedly proposed that one should get rid of the EEA Agreement, so that one could have given a job, e.g.: The frigates that the Defence No builds in Spain, to the Norwegian shipyard. No one wanted to be in on it. Or then the majority here privatized Statoil so that one could no longer control Statoil. So then Statoil also went to Spain, to Dragados. So here's someone who has a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e459	The representative of Langeland used relatively much of his intervention to point out the irresponsibility of the majority in relation to Snow White, by not now, even before the Council of State has explained, signaling that we want to stop this from the exceedances that exist. I want to refute that there is some basis for talking about the majority being irresponsible in this context. We view this as a very serious exceedance. It has been clarified both from the Workers' Party and the Right, and it joins the Christian People's Party. But I feel that it would be natural to await some conclusions from this, at least until the Council of State has been given the opportunity to explain what the situation actually is. So my question is relative to the responsibility: where does this limit go for SV? We actually had quite formidable exceedances at the opera house in their time, but SV did not stop the project. My question is then: Where is the limit of when one is irresponsible and when one is responsible? I hope SV can clarify that. So to another question, which is related to the Barents Sea: SV has tried to interpret what is now available, as if everyone has failed all the good principles, and the Sem statement has been thrown overboard. They have tried to present this until the setting is a blank authorisation, regardless of what may occur, for launch in the Barents Sea. That's not right. On the contrary, the majority actually follow up what is stated in the Sem Declaration, that we will use the impact assessments as a basis for a debate on the issue of further activity in the North Sea. Probably they can come to the harvest already, I don't want to ignore it. Then we get the debate on what conclusions we are going to draw from these impact assessments. My question is, doesn't Langeland hear what we're actually saying, or does he not want to hear it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e472	If I have hearing damage or one, it will be decided by the Christian People's Party itself. But I record that when SV offers the government a multiple in relation to what is stated in the Sem statement, the case spokesman and the right does not want to have that multiple. Then you have to ask yourself, what is it that you have negotiated with the Labour Party? And one hears that the Labour Party is putting more into this than the Christian People's Party is doing. Then I'm only told that the Christian People's Party still feels that they have a position in the Government that means that they have an influence on what Right is doing with the Christian People's Party's policy, and that one should actually make sure that one closes up the knowledge holes that one has when the first consequence is present. But there's reason to ask this question when one of the governments chooses another party in the negotiations, and one knows that the party has a more aggressive policy in the Barents Sea. Then it's an important signal, I think, that the Christian People's Party should be able to perceive. So to this with where the limits of responsibility in relation to excesses go. SV's points are the following: The size has pushed forward an expansion of the Snow White field, by changing the tax agenda, among other things. So the size is responsible for the fact that it now exceeds 5.8 billion kroner. So SV says, no matter what the council says, the Storting must stop and think about it. What is the cost of stopping the development of Snow White? What is the cost of continuing? Then, from the figures they have, the politicians have to decide. Now a second in the blind is running as if the 5.8 billion didn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e481	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e484	The oil and gas industry stuttering message provides important guidance for Norwegian petroleum industry from a 100 year perspective. Norway shall be a leading energy nation in the future. Here, there is a tradition that knowledge-rich and creative people have taken initiatives to exploit energy in large ocean-water storage and hydrocarbon reservoirs below sea level. This has given many jobs, and the revenues society has collected from the petroleum industry have laid the foundations for many of the welfare schemes that we enjoy today. At the same time, we know that energy production must be integrated into an environmentally sound and sustainable framework. A majority in Stortinget are happy to join the Government's goal of the so-called long-term development path, which facilitates oil business from a 50-year perspective and gas business from a 100-year perspective. A premise for this is that there is an offensive and targeted policy, with a focus on research and technology development, search and the environment. The co-existence of key interests such as petroleum industry, fisheries and environmental protection will be entirely decisive to develop the pooling of resource potential on Norwegian continental shelf. In the Sem declaration, the principle of holistic plans for management in individual sea areas was established, and the oil and gas industry message continues this principle. This applies to the North Sea, the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea, which have a significant potential for environmentally sound and efficient petroleum activities. The government has seen the impact of the annual expansion of petroleum industry in the Lofoten-Barents Sea. This impact assessment may be part of a sound management plan for the Barents Sea which includes the environment, fisheries, petroleum industry and maritime transport. The impact analysis must therefore throw the necessary light over all aspects of the increased activity in the northern regions before the question of petroleum activity can be addressed. The aim is to send this distribution to the audience in March 2003 with treatment before the end of 2003. The Government Party assumes that this impact assessment will be so thorough and comprehensive that it can be a good basis for dealing with the issue of extra petroleum activity in the region, and the Labour Party fully supports it. I believe everyone in this room may agree that it is not good management to destroy renewable resources from the sea – perhaps for all future – in order to obtain non-renewable petroleum resources from a hundred-year perspective. The long-term development path requires investments to obtain a right degree of extraction in the existing fields and new interesting oil and gas provinces will be opened up for search and extraction as soon as the impact assessments have been carried out. Hale production in mature oil fields, profitable extraction of less oil fields and petroleum industry in new areas can help us achieve the measurements we have seen. We believe that Norwegian pedestal must still be an attractive area for value creation and investment, and Norwegian companies must be able to strengthen their competitive position both on Norwegian pedestal and internationally. All of this must be embedded in knowledge that ensures that the environment is not significantly negatively affected. Research projects have been started to deal with issues such as: the release of alkylphenols from water produced is harmful to the environment. We are pleased that the industry itself has taken action to reduce the negative effects of the petroleum industry. Through cooperation between the government and industry, the best solutions can be chosen. Finally, today, a clear majority in Stortinget will decide in accordance with the Government’s recommendation on the oil and gas industry. So there is a way to get a good foundation for the calculated petroleum policy we are going to lead in a demanding market in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e508	It is important for the welfare community that we have an industry and jobs and value creation as a result. It is important for us to continue to have well-being, and for us to be able to use the incomes and natural resources we have in the country. At the same time, it is important that the environment be better protected, at least as well as it has now become, in the oil industry. The industry is totally dependent on it. I would like to thank the government parties for the cooperation we have had in relation to this position. It might be that someone thinks I'm going to feel bad about it. To that I would say I won't. If the government does a good job, I also believe they will get credit for it. SV does not believe that the impact assessment for the Barents Sea will be good enough. I am therefore pleased that the government parties chose to go away from SV's thought knowledge gap. I am glad that they said that the impact assessment should be so good that one could take a position on further development in the Barents Sea after it was there. And the Workers' Party assumes that the impact assessment being presented is good enough. Then the representative, Onarheim, was up in the pulpit and talked about the fact that the majority was really talking about a ‘special note’ together with the Workers’ Party. It's the one that goes on the impact assessment. Then my question becomes to the representative Liones: What does he add to the impact assessment that we in the Workers' Party require to be good enough to grasp the basis for further development in the Barents' Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e519	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Rolf Terje Klungland for his positive report on the cooperation with the Labour Party, and for the process we had in order to arrive at the formulation of such a clear policy. The representative also mentions the importance of industrial work. It means jobs, not least in the districts, which depend on it. Obviously, we also have common challenges here. We're very focused on it. Among other things, we are busy – as there will now be longer operation in the fields through tail production – that there will be a need to maintain and upgrade the platforms as part of the restructuring process. It means jobs again, and there should be opportunities for Norwegian industry, which has such a high level of competence and so many skilled workers. So the question of how we in the Christian People's Party evaluate what is going to happen after the impact assessment has been presented. The simplest answer is found in the message supported by the Workers' Party. And then we can see that in relation to what's in the Sem statement, it says word for word on page 8 of the setting. SV has simply referred to the Sem statement and referred to three main directions there. The same three main clues are that in what is the plural comments, that is, what will be the decision today, which we clearly say: the impact is to be presented first. Once we've seen the contents of it, and once the government has gone through it, then we can first decide what's going to happen. In any case, it states that the ‘multiple number’ is positive to the principle of overall management plans for certain marine areas. So, it's going to be followed naturally. But no one can advance any response until the impact assessment is complete. It's going to be incredibly exciting to see it, and then it takes really active work to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e530	It cannot be easy to be a Christian People's Party at the moment. First, one cooperates with the Progress Party on Cheaper Spirits and Tax Lights for Nationals, and then one will cooperate with the Labour Party on environmental issues and on oil and gas business issues. It goes without saying that that result must be very difficult for the Christian People's Party. But I still want to listen to how the Christian People's Party in government thinks when it comes to this with consistency and management plan – if one now sees that a person is doing a thorough job with regard to the consequences, but still finds out that there is something that needs to be looked at more closely, for example. link to what the management plan provides when it relates to fisheries, the environment, transport and the whole activity. If one then finds out that an actual must go further and come close to a management plan, is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party also believes that 2005 will be a more natural time – perhaps when the management plan is ahead – to start oil operations in the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e537	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, expressed disquiet and concern in the context of the situation of the Christian People's Party. It's nice to have such expressions of sympathy, and it's not to be covered that it's imperative to belong to a party that's part of a minority government. Then there is a need to support both right and left in the political landscape – to stick to terminology. But it's the content of the issues that's decisive, and the voices are equally worthy whether they're given by the Progress Party or by the Workers' Party. How does the Christian People’s Party think? I can assure you that we have read the Sem statement in detail, and – as the oil and gas message also shows – we follow it up point by point. Once again, I have to show you page 8 of this setting. It says what the Socialist Left Party has introduced, namely that one should ‘ conduct an impact assessment of all-year petroleum activity in the northern seas’. That's the first one. The plural comments say that a ‘shows that the Government has carried out an impact assessment’ – that is, a natural follow-up! In addition, it states: ‘Until such a plan is in place, the Barents Sea will not be opened up further to petroleum activity’. It is precisely stated that this impact assessment currently being made must be ‘so thorough and comprehensive that it can provide a good basis for dealing with the issue of further petroleum activities in the area’. So third, one has to go in to get a management plan that follows. That means that the answer that the representative of Langeland wants now, we can only give when the impact assessment is done. We're assuming that she becomes so thorough and so complementary that she answers all the questions, so that no so-called gaps in knowledge lead to new rounds of distribution. The starting point is that we should get the answers and the information we need, in order to get on with the question of new activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e546	In the past, the central parties were united to say no to oil extraction in the Barents Sea. In this setting, we have experienced that a majority, including the Christian People's Party, speak of the need for the 'long-term development path'. That means the Barents Sea is opening. We have received signals today that it can already be opened the next autumn. Now, Ingmar Lions nuanced this in his post, but it's obvious that there's a little bit different vision here. Governments have also reported that oil extraction in the Lofoten area may be relevant. The center party is very concerned about this. We might see the old friends have failed us a little bit. We believe that this is an unacceptable risk, both in relation to the environment and fisheries. So my question to the Christian People's Party is: Where will the Christian People's Party set the limit for future oil operations? What is it for the Christian People's Party to say no to the extraction of oil and gas when one now opens up to the use of these vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e553	It is not advisable to answer the questions that the representative Inger Enger just asked, briefly and well because it is not possible to answer them until the impact assessment is carried out. And once again, we expect this distribution to be so thorough and comprehensive that it can shed light on all aspects of what's going to happen, and the activities that can be allowed in the north. It will then be a challenge, not only for those who make up the majority today, but for everyone in the Biggest, how to take care of this unique and important area, where the environment is very central, but where we also have industrial interests such as fisheries and petroleum industry. And precisely because the petroleum industry is so decisive for our development, we have to be prepared to exploit the area, unless it conflicts with other important interests. We are going to be briefed on this, and then we are going to take the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e562	It's good that we go through St. Report. No 38 have been given the opportunity to discuss the large lines of gas and oil activities. The message tells us that the petroleum industry will continue to be an important industry for Norway for many years to come. At the same time, it poses new environmental challenges when the extraction rate is to be increased and petroleum activities are to be started in new areas. For the centre lot, it is important to balance the considerations of industry and employment in the petroleum industry against the need to protect the environment and not to harm the fishing activity. The oil and gas notification presents two possible development pathways for the petroleum activity. One is the long-term development path, which the Government recommends that we follow. Here it is assumed that the authorities are laying out new attractive areas for exploration and extraction. It is also envisaged to open the areas from Lofoten and northwards to the Barents Sea for oil extraction. Such assumptions may not be supported by the Centre Party. The second prerequisite for the long-term development path is the development of new technologies. This includes, inter alia: necessary to increase the degree of extraction in existing fields. We're completely behind this assumption. As an equivalent to the long-term development path, the Government presents the ‘way of weather’ in which the petroleum industry is stagnating and almost being phased out in 20 years. This development strategy cannot, of course, be accepted. The Central Party has therefore felt it necessary to point out that the political debate on oil and gas policy must focus on economic and environmental realities and not on the two strategies presented by the Government. Petroleum policy must assume that oil and gas are non-renewable resources that must be managed in the long term. The level of investment and extraction must take account of the environment and the responsibility for future generations. A reduced rate of oil and gas extraction will lead to the spread of the ring-fenced effects of oil and gas activities over a longer period of time. So for the Central Party, it's important that we have a long-term outlook, that we save some resources for future generations, and that we take environmental protection into account before we start oil and gas extraction in new areas. At the same time, the petroleum industry is very important for the Norwegian economy and for employment in many neighbouring industries. We support the Government's objective of increasing the extraction rate in existing fields and of extracting smaller oil and gas fields in relation to existing production facilities. It'll be resource depletion if we don't get this done. Increased extraction rates require the development of new technologies that prevent or purify the release of water produced and reduce the need for the use of chemicals. We believe it is right to streamline the allocation of extraction permits in mature management areas. The centre party is concerned by the situation of the Norwegian supplier industry. Industry needs to be ensured evenly with missions, and we need to find out why Norwegian businesses are losing important jobs. It is important to ensure Norwegian ownership and that companies are associated with Norway in the oil and gas industry. Companies should have offices and research units in this country. We must maintain the current state ownership of Statoil and continue to take shares in fields where profitability is good or resource potential high. The ecosystems in the Barents Sea are vulnerable. When we get the expansion of the Snow White field, it can maritimely mean an increased risk of environmentally harmful emissions at sea – and now I am on Document No. 8:9, which is also to be dealt with today. We had hoped that there would be a majority to go in for this. We have to expect that there will be greater shipping traffic near Hammerfest and near the coast of Finnmark. It is therefore very unfortunate that the proposal for an environmental monitoring centre near the Snow White field is not supported by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e584	Full-year North Petroleum activities will facilitate the development of industry and the creation of value added in the northern part of the country. Many new jobs will be created. This can help to ensure that the continent can stand on its own feet independent of transfers. Snow White has undoubtedly created new optimism in Hammerfest. Aetat has already registered more than 10 000 people who want a job in connection with the development. The number of competent applicants for the posts is very high. In fact, snow White has provided the largest return to Finnmark since the war refugees returned in the late 1940s. With the Snow White development, the area has received investments that they have never been close to before. The centre party claims to be concerned with just value creation and district development. Why, then, does the party object to the expansion and rejection of further activity in the Barents Sea? The representative Enger just said that they want to reduce activity in general to distribute this over generations. How long does the Center Party want to wait? Does the representative see any alternatives that can contribute in the same way to the creation of value added and growth in our northern part of the country? Isn't it true that the Center Party is failing the districts? Isn't it true that the centre party is just busy with the transfers and doesn't make it easy for you to stand on your own legs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e593	The center party is engaged in business development, and we are engaged in the districts, as Meling correctly expressed it. I know there's a lot of talk about transfer in connection with the Center Party. I think that's getting a little too narrow. That's one side of it, but that's not what we were going to be concerned about here. When we talk about Finnmark and that Snow White has created optimism in the area, it is certainly right. It is also right that the Central Party went centrally against the development of Snow White, while the Centre Party locally – I think it is right to mention it – went in order for Snow White to be expanded, considering the workplaces. But now it's like the mother party has to rise a little bit higher and try to look at several sides of it, and for us it was when the environment became crucial. In addition, there is another very important industry in this area — and the representative of Meling is well aware of this — namely the fishing industry. And that's the one that was our greatest concern in this context, because it's not enough to facilitate one industry if it goes at the expense of another. That is why this is very serious. When it comes to Snow White, there's been a lot of talk about the big economic overruns there right now, and the Statoil manager says that he couldn't have imagined an expansion if he had anticipated these cost excesses. That's what I think I'm thinking, because in many ways it should be easier to predict the costs of expansion than for example. to be able to assess environmental risks and ecological contexts in advance. It's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e604	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e607	Our petroleum resources represent significant values for Norwegian society. It is important to ensure that the petroleum sector becomes a major contributor to the financing of the welfare society and to industrial development throughout the country, including in the future. The challenge for Norway in the years to come is to avoid the massive petroleum revenues we will experience being passed on to other businesses and the employment we will live on in mainland Norway. In such a perspective, it is important that the rest of the business policy is geared towards innovation and innovation. The largest values remain in the remaining oil and gas resources on the Norwegian continental shelf. And today's big message points to the major challenges this poses to the efficient extraction of resources with the least possible damage to the environment. The left supports a comprehensive committee, which points out that investments will be important in order to increase the degree of exploitation of existing fields. A liberal environmental policy is based on the fact that the consideration of our own freedom should not affect people in other parts of the world or future generations. An important principle is the precautionary principle. All our activity must occur within the limits tolerated by nature. It requires that we be careful about nature, and that the environmental consequences should be monitored as well as they can be done in advance of natural interference. Doubts must benefit the environment. It has been called into question after the Committee has given its opinion in the case of a proper impact assessment of the additional petroleum industry in the Barents Sea. The left does not accept the launch of additional petroleum activity in the Barents Sea, including Goliath and Snow White oil extraction, until an impact assessment is carried out. Environmental considerations must govern decisions on oil extraction in new seas. The Barents Sea is a vulnerable sea area with an unstable climate that will hamper any oil spill clean-up action. The impact analysis must therefore highlight the different problem areas of all-year oil extraction as far north as possible. In addition, distribution should clarify the impact on animal and plant life in the area. The left cannot support the extraction of oil in the Barents Sea unless one in the distribution provides comprehensive evidence that this is environmentally sound. Oil companies’ investments in the area cannot be given a decisive weight if environmental considerations are going in the opposite direction. After reading the opinion of the committee, and after listening to the debate today, I cannot see it as SV is trying to present it, that what is in the plural commentary is against the Sem statement. We believe that the Labour Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left will have a proper environmental impact assessment and will have everything on the table before a victory for extraction in the North. So to what's going on on shipping, and what the Center Party in particular has been busy in this setting. This will come back to you in the wake of the big news about the marine environment, and I'm very happy about it, because then you'll see the whole thing in the ship's traffic paths, the whole thing in readiness that has to go along our entire vulnerable coast. Finally, a theme that has probably not been so advanced, that of research and development, that of strengthening research in the field of petroleum technology. We're at the forefront of Norway's petrolem technology, and here we have some advantage. This is something that we can develop and invest in, we can kind of sell our technology, sell our knowledge. The fact that there is now a signal in the message that one will take care of and further develop the environments of competence that exist around Norway, I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e627	I am pleased that many have underlined the need for a thorough impact assessment before making strategic decisions on the opening of the Barents Sea or the Lofoten and northwards for oil activities. Nevertheless, I think we have a debate about this impact assessment as if it were something big and generous, which we're going to start thinking about tomorrow and where we're going to start with blank sheets. There is an impact assessment programme to be completed in March. In its opinion on this programme, the SFT wrote the following: ‘The vast majority of the area has not been adequately surveyed for environmental resources and there is no complete and up-to-date knowledge of the dynamic physical and biological variations known to the Barents Sea. Therefore, as a basis for decision-making by the authorities, the investigation will be incomplete.» The SFT has proposed that the knowledge gaps to be revealed in the impact assessment to be completed in March should be close before strategic decisions are made on what will happen in the Barents Sea. It requires new research, and it requires an impact assessment Part 2. For us, it is essential that we show such awe for the complexity of the ecology in the Barents Sea that we take the time to investigate this thoroughly. And that's not the way it was in the former Soviet Union, that you can assume that there's no problem here. Nor can we decide that in March we will arrive at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e641	As I said in my post, a statement must clarify the consensus for, for example. animal and plant life. The left one actually means that everything should be done on the table, everything should be done before a decision-making basis is put forward. And I expect that the government will follow up. But I also don't see the difference between SV's and the government's comments, because I think everyone in this room is busy getting everything on the table before we decide what to do. And as I also said, for the Left, it's important to have a precautionary principle, and that environmental considerations are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e648	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e652	One of the most interesting issues today is the question of future oil activities in the Barents Sea. It is a matter which also concerns me, primarily from the point of view of fisheries and the environment. In February of this year, the Stortinget said yes to the Snow White extension, despite the fact that a comprehensive environmental management thought it was wrong to make a decision before we had completed all-year petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. In the setting, I had my own comments and voted against the Snow White extension. In my post I said, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t ‘The Barents Sea is one of the world’s most fishing regions and a very important growing area for the fish that forms the basis for the fishing industry along the Norwegian coast. At the same time, it is a very vulnerable area, including: long darkness time – and oil degradation time is long. The consequences of an accident are likely to be greater in the Barents Sea than in other parts of the Norwegian Socket.’» That's what I said, and it's equally true today. Oil extraction is controversial in vulnerable sea areas. Not just a collective environmental movement means it. For example, the Ministry of Fisheries wrote in its opinion on the Snow White Development in July last year that they had ‘great concerns that this sea area should be subjected to an environmental impact that could lead to a reduction in the productivity of marine resources’. [[i.e. the Barents Sea]] Therefore, when this is so controversial, it must be a minimum requirement to have proper impact assessments on the impact and risk of oil start-ups. At the National Assembly of the Labour Party in November this year, a compromise was adopted saying that we want to ‘base of overall impact assessment shall determine the sea areas open to petroleum activities and the sea areas to be petroleum-free’. It is a milestone that the Working Party has established the principle of petroleum-free sea areas. The size and location of these should, as stated in the decision of the national meeting, be decided on the basis of an overall impact assessment. The Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have joined forces on a compromise in this matter. We say in our attitude that we assume that the impact assessment launched by the Council of State will be so thorough and comprehensive that it can be a good basis for dealing with the question of further petroleum activities. We can't know what that impact assessment will tell us today. We can't foreshadow that, for example. is capable of extracting oil near the coast of North Norway or the Barents Sea. Then there would have been no sense in getting it started. It is therefore up to the Council of State to have a firm grip on this matter. It is the Council of State which is responsible for giving the Storting the best possible knowledge of the decisions to be taken, it is the Council of State which, on the basis of knowledge, is to propose which areas can be opened up to petroleum activities and which should be petroleum-free. This is a big and important task, and it's probably one of the things Einar Steensnæs will be remembered for when the story of the Bondevik government is going to be written. For my part, I expect two things: firstly, I expect him to base the precautionary principle. In other words, where there is uncertainty, it must benefit nature. Secondly, I expect cleanliness and clarity. Unfortunately, there have been rather conflicting signals from the Council of State in this matter. Because at the same time as the Council of State says he's going to do all-year petroleum operations in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area, he was on the radio last Friday and said that in a few years' time the search for oil will take place so close to land that the inhabitants of Røst can see the lights from the platforms from their living windows. Then I just want to remind the Council of State that oil extraction right outside of Lofoten is very controversial, and that the Stoltenberg government actually stopped the test drilling outside Røst after a joint fishery industry and several environmental organisations had demanded a postponement. The Storting has today agreed that the Government will conduct all-year petroleum activities in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area. How we're going to deal with the investigation is going to be a new discussion when it comes. It is then important that the majority of the population dares to use the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e689	I have listened to this debate with great interest, and I think it has been a good and clarifying debate, but of course also a challenging debate. The petroleum sector is of great importance to Norway. It is an important part of the Norwegian economy and has also made a significant contribution to the development of the Norwegian welfare society. Oil and gas industries are currently Norway's largest industry. In the General Communication on Oil and Gas Activities, the Government focuses on the resource potential on Norwegian pedestal and provides opportunities for the Norwegian value creation and industrial development community. This is illustrated in the Storing Communication by the «long-term development pathway» in relation to the «weathering pathway». It is the Government’s clear objective to ensure that conditions are facilitated to realise the value potential of the long-term development pathway. This is very demanding, especially when looking at new interesting areas requires thorough assessments for both environmental impacts, fisheries and other important societal considerations. But if we succeed in this, we can look forward to 50 years of continued oil activity and at least 100 years of gas extraction. It is an important condition for this government that further developments on Norwegian pedestal take place in such a way that resources are managed efficiently and sustainably and that due account is taken of basic environmental and fisheries resources. At the same time, there must be a strong focus on health, the environment and safety at all levels of activity. I noticed a certain wound undertone in the representative Enger's posts here. But I can reassure her that this is a policy she should be able to feel at home in. It is a continuation of the policy she recognizes from the cooperation of the central government, and therefore, for good reason, she should also be able to join. But that's what she decides, of course. Norwegian oil and gas policy is based on a model of coexistence between petroleum activities and environmental considerations and other marine users. On an international scale, Norwegian capital is well advanced in the use of environmentally friendly technology and in improving its efficiency. More and more stringent environmental and safety requirements are being imposed on Norwegian pedestals. Emissions to sea from petroleum activities are very limited in relation to other sources and industries. However, the government wants to further limit these emissions, including: by ensuring that the zero emission target for environmentally hazardous substances at sea is achieved by 2005. In order to ensure that decisions on the petroleum activities in the northern seas are taken on a sound basis, the Government has initiated an investigation into the consequences of all-year petroleum activities in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area, abbreviated ULB. The purpose of this investigation is to be forwarded to the Government during the autumn of 2003. The Government will await the conclusions of the ULB before finalising the decisions that can be taken on the basis of this document and the decisions that have to await the forthcoming overall management plan for the Barents Sea. It is proposed that the management plan be submitted to the Stortinget in 2005, possibly in 2006. In its position, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment argues that ‘this impact assessment will be so thorough and comprehensive that it can provide a good basis for addressing the issue of further petroleum activities in the area’. This is in line with the procedure I have described above and in line with the Sem declaration. I also point to the fact that at this point, the High and Christian People's Party groups say ‘satisfaction with the government's commitment to its policy’. This is reflected in a joint press release from these clusters. I would also like to refer here to the representative Synnøve Konglevoll's posts, where she said that we are adding up to an establishment that allows the lights from the installations to be seen from Røst. I make it clear that I have cancelled what NRK Nordland meant to catch up with my statement when I was visiting Bodø. There was a reference to an interesting seismic and geology near the coast of Northern Ireland but not yet open to such activities, and which this Council of State has not in any way taken into account in its plans, nor in the long-term development path. The development and application of new technologies will be an important element in achieving the long-term development path. The State has, as the landowner, resource manager and participant through the EEAS, the main economic interests associated with the petroleum resources on its Norwegian base, and thus the greatest interest in the development of new technologies. The tax income from the activity is about 90 pst. by the value creation of the country. The Government will focus on the development of new technologies and competences in the petroleum sector. In this respect, I also point out that a majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the Budgetary Section. S. No 9 requests the development of different public co-financing models for research in the petroleum industry, including a petroleum-oriented research fund. This will be followed up by the Government. I briefed briefly on the cost increase in Snow White on 12 December. The project has now been addressed by Statoil’s Board of Directors and Statoil, which the operator has submitted a new cost estimate for the development. I have asked Statoil for a report on the cost increases in the project, and the information provided by the operator is the basis of my statement now. Statoil has calculated the total cost increase for the project to be DKK 5.8 billion. SEK 4.4 billion is due to an increase in the weight of the farm – the weight was underestimated by about 50 pst. in the development plans presented to Stortinget. In addition, 450 million are due. NOK a shift of costs from subsequent phases, and SEK 950 million. kr is linked to the delays that occurred in the ESA case. Statoil states that the reason for the cost increase on the land site is that they had too little attention and used too little resources in the preparation of a detailed land site calculation basis. This led to the lack of technical maturity of the project in which the rightholders decided to submit the development plans for regulatory treatment. In the autumn of 2002, a number of reviews of the Snow White project were launched both by the operator and by the partnership. Among other things, carried out a thorough review of the technical concept and its related costs. The estimated cost increase of SEK 5.8 billion is the result of this review. Statoil has also made changes in its own organisation and in relation to the follow-up of the German company Linde, which is responsible for the technical design of the land-use facility. The operator states that Linde will be closely followed up in the future. Statoil believes that these reviews have helped to make the project more mature. Furthermore, they believe that the timetable for the project, which involves the start-up of the plant in December 2005, is tight but feasible. Statoil estimates show that the project remains socially viable. The present value before tax was estimated in the development plans at approximately NOK 11.6 billion. After the cost increases have been taken into account, the present value before tax will be approximately NOK 6.5 billion. After tax, the present value is reduced from approximately NOK 2.6 billion to NOK 1.2 billion. The project will also contribute to high incomes for society. For example, Snow White owners will pay SEK 73 billion in taxes over the lifetime of the field. The present value of this tax income is NOK 4 billion. Cost developments in the Snow White project are worrying, and the situation that has arisen is very unfortunate. It is the responsibility of the operator to ensure the proper development of the project in the future. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I have a responsibility to keep Stortinget informed about the development of the projects. I will therefore follow cost developments in Snow White carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e734	With regard to the snow-white situation, I fully agree that it is very worrying. It's serious, and it's most of all a very undesirable situation. I would like to thank the Council of State for its briefing, because it is very important for the Storting to be briefed as soon as possible when such serious things happen. It might have been interesting to know how long the Council of State has known that it could indicate that there could be exceedances of this magnitude, or whether this is something that he has recently become aware of could happen. I would also point out that a majority in the vote on this matter said the following: «The majority assumes that the investment calculations are ensured in order to minimise economic risk.» – Does the Government believe that the investment calculations were properly reviewed? And can the Council of State assure us that there will be no more exceedances hereafter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e748	As far as information to the Storting is concerned, of course, where the responsible State Council has information relating to the assumptions on which the Storing has based its treatment, the Council of State comes to the Storing with the necessary information. That's why I found it necessary before the figures were quality-proof, but after I got information about these exceedances, to give preliminary information to the Stortinget when the Committee on Energy and the Environment dealt with the budget. Then, during the budgetary procedure, I said that I would come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when these figures were quality assured – therefore this briefing today. I am grateful that the Presidency opened up so that I could provide this information. Of course, Statoil's calculations and review have made it possible for us now to expect progress in this project to be based on more quality assurance figures. As I said, the project is now mature in the sense that you know more about the costs and the leadership. I would like to stress that this is a very complicated project, and the worrying thing is that the cost excesses are coming so early in the project implementation. When this project is continued, it is more complicated, more challenging and all the more important that the operator assumes responsibility to control all costs and processes. Therefore, of course, it is not possible for me to guarantee that the figures that I have now explained will remain in the project's further production, but I have to deal with what the operator has said in relation to the fact that they are following this project carefully, and that they have invested considerable resources in the quality control of the figures. I'm sure that as an organisation, Statoil is now putting all the resources into making sure that the numbers they've been operating on now are going to keep the project going.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e763	We in the Progress Party are seriously concerned about the cost development of the Snow White project. Some of the cost increases are due to delays due to the ESA case, and we have been aware of this for some time. But unfortunately, it seems that the operator has not had the necessary overview from the start, especially in the case of the land-use facility. This is not good! We therefore assume that the Council of State keeps Stortinget continuously informed about the further development of the project, and I expect that for the time being there will be no such unpleasant surprises. Then over to tax on the base. More in the oil industry, including: Group Director Torvund of Norsk Hydro has stated that today's tax system is countering important Norwegian oil policy objectives. I have also registered that the Council of State has welcomed a new debate on the oil tax. Like me, the Council of State was present at the OLF annual conference a few weeks ago, where this was a theme, especially when it came to tax incentives for niche and tail production. What has now changed the meaning of government councils and government parties? Our proposal in the financial position was voted down, and it does not seem that we are receiving support today to set up a sample to review the tax agenda on the base. Now, all of a sudden, we're going to put a lid on the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e777	In the case of the Snow White project, I can confirm, in line with what I have already stated, that I will keep constantly informed about the cost development and, of course, as soon as there is information of such a nature that this will affect the assumptions and information the size has previously received. When it comes to the tax question, we have to realize that as parts of the Norwegian base become more mature, we are facing new, interesting opportunities. We've only taken up about a quarter of the estimated resources on a Norwegian base, but some of the remaining resources are so designed both in terms of volume and complexity in relation to geology that if you're going to get profitability, you might have to look at the framework conditions to get the companies interested. This is a very interesting and important debate. I have then stated, also at the annual meeting to which Mr Vaksdal referred, that I am prepared and interested in entering into such a debate with the industry. I have also referred to the Top Leadership Forum within Konkraft as a suitable forum for discussing these issues. Of course, there would be a certain contrast of interest between the wishes of the companies for maximum dividends on invested capital and the desire of the state – and mine, on behalf of the community – for the community to have its share. There will be a certain conflict of interest. What underlies my treatment of the tax question is that projects that are profitable before tax should also be profitable after tax. But if projects are unprofitable before tax, we cannot add up to a tax regime that makes them profitable after tax. I base the two basic principles in my conversation with the industry, and with these assumptions I attend an interesting, open discussion on the framework conditions for the Norwegian base. My goal is to keep the international companies interested in continued presence on the Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e788	It was interesting to hear that the Council of State said that the principles of taxation on the base should be that what is profitable before tax should be profitable after tax. I agree with the heart. But that's exactly this principle that's been deviated from in the development of Snow White. There is a tax subsidy that initially started construction. $2 billion of society's money has gone to this. I also find it discouraging to note that the Government is now redefining and reinterpreting its own statement, namely the Sem Declaration, relating to the development of the Barents Sea. I find it hard to understand this in any other way than that this is enough an example that the Christian People's Party does not have muscles in this Government and loses by all important crossroads, especially where the environment is involved. Then again to Snow White. When Olav Fjeld says that he would not have started this project if he had known today about the exceedance of NOK 5.8 billion, it says a little about how the company assesses this. The company has received tax subsidies to start. Now, before the project has started properly, we have an exceedance of DKK 5.8 billion. There's something the council doesn't say here. He says the state will get 90 pst. of the revenue. Yes, that's right, but here there'll be limited revenues, for 90 pst. the costs will have to be borne by the State. That means that we are here in the Storting that bear the cost of the exceedance. Of these 5,8 billion kroner that are so far exceeded, we're carrying over 5 billion dollars of the costs in the Storting. Just think about how much DKK 5 billion is related to kindergartens, related to school development, related to welfare production in general. It is almost impossible to get a ten thousand kroner in this house without it being called irresponsible. It surprises me that the Council of State, with open eyes, is going into this. For this is the story of a notified murder – a notified murder! This is a scandal that will only increase to an extent. This is the most controversial expansion project we have had in Norwegian oil history. It is linked to both the environment and fisheries, but now it is also linked to the economy. My question to the Council of State is, what is it really going to do to make a new assessment of this? Do we not have enough information to suggest a new, changed attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e800	In the case of the first two points that the representative Djupedal so far was in before he took care of Snow White, which was probably the main theme of his line, I cannot give him right at any point. Snow White is not an example of profitable pre-tax projects not becoming profitable after tax. It's just that the Snow White project is a profitable project with the tax system we have today. I don't want to give him justice when it comes to the ULB either. It has now been clarified – and I think to the extent that the debate put this in order in a clear way: there will be no new activity in the Lofoten and Barents areas until an impact assessment is available. When that impact assessment is available, we have a basis for saying how we're going to move on. If new knowledge is needed, new knowledge gaps will be covered. If this is completely clarifying, we have a situation we can deal with relative to further activity. In the case of Snow White, Øystein Djupedal used rather powerful words to denote this. I'm not going to comment on that. But when he says that I go into this with open eyes – yes, I do. In fact, it is important to have open eyes and open ears and receive all the information that the operator now provides to the ministry. That information I have said that I will pass on to Stortinget. It is the Stortinget that has approved the project. It's quite right, as Øystein Djupedal says, the community bears a great deal of the cost of these exceedances. At the same time, I must again stress that this is a profitable project. The snow-white owner will pay NOK 73 billion in taxes, and still it is profitable with a present value of NOK 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e809	I would like to thank the Council of State for its briefing. Everyone's been concerned about Snow White, and that there's a lot of economic overruns. It's very unpleasant. It's almost tempting to say that there could have been a lot of good district development also for 5.6 billion kroner. But this is the economic side of it. It should really be easier to deal with and be able to look ahead than for example. the prior assessment of environmental and ecological contexts. I will quote from a letter that the Council of State wrote to the Committee in response to some questions, on 6 December: ‘As I see it, it is right to await the finalisation of the ULB before we finally conclude what decisions we can take on the basis of this document and what decisions must await the overall management plan’. This has been repeated by the Council of State today. He said in his speech a few minutes ago that the management plan was presented in 2005. That side's all right. But I feel when we hear the debate here today, that there are some shades, because it may look like the majority of the committee wants to open up a full-year petroleum activity in the Barents Sea before all the results are available – yes, the next harvest is already mentioned. I think it would be interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on this. Is there a real disagreement between the Council of State and the Committee on how quickly we should proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e824	In the case of the so-called ULB, it has been subject to a lot of attention, and there have probably also been different expectations of what comes out of the ULB. Some have thought that this is completely unnecessary. We have all the knowledge we need. We don't have to do this again and spend a lot of money and a lot of time on relationships that are already settled! This is not the view of the Government. We see the need to get maps and up-to-date material that is important for further activity. Then there have also been those who have said, Yes, we have to do this, then. But we hope that this can be done so quickly that we already know that we can move forward in the autumn of 2003. Then someone says, "We want to support ULB, but we've already decided that some activity in the Barents Sea is not going to happen." SV has such a point of view. They have that in their own comments on the oil message. They support the impact assessment, but they have already concluded: no activity. The government's view is that we should have a thorough discussion of all aspects of a full-year petroleum activity in these marine areas. Based on what we find out about the consequences and effects of this, we'll decide if it's possible to go on with new activity. That's what I think the majority of the Biggest have agreed to, and I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e835	I am very pleased with the agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties, so to speak, throughout the whole setting in this matter. There are also issues related to the Barents Sea. I refer you to the setting that is ready: ‘This majority’ — i.e. the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties — ‘suggests that this impact assessment will be so thorough and comprehensive that it can provide a good basis for addressing the issue of further petroleum activities in the region’. The Council of State has today also announced that it will come in autumn 2003. This means that we're assuming that if there's nothing special that we don't know about today, decisions can be made about what's going to happen in the Barents Sea in the autumn. I assume and expect, of course, that this is something that the Council of State follows up. I can also imagine asking questions to the Council of State as to whether he is concerned about the low search activity that we now have. Is he concerned about the falling interest that we see from some of the foreign companies? Is he also concerned about the situation that, among other things, parts of the yard industry are in? Will the Council of State take an initiative to review the competitive situation, not least in relation to part of the yards, for example: with regard to exactly what has happened to Aker Kværner in Egersund?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e847	I don't think I'm going to comment on the ULB any more now, but the representative Sylvia Brustad expressed an expectation of what's coming out of the investigation. I think one must be able to allow such expectations. I think I will deal with what I have said, namely the thoroughness that I want to contribute to the impact assessment, so that we can make sure that any new activity in these northern sea areas can be done with soundness in relation to both the environment and fisheries. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has joined such an opinion, because it is essential to also have the greatest possible consensus in oil policy. So the representative Sylvia Brustad asks me if I'm not worried about the low search activity. Well, the government's policy is to have the most even, predictable activity possible. But so it is that the petroleum industry is still in the century of technology, to say the least. It's so advanced that we can get out into space and back again with the greatest precision. We have an impressive microelectronic development that allows us to communicate with the whole world through small devices that we can carry on. We haven't gotten there, however, that we have a seismic system that can reveal with maximum precision whether there are hydrocarbons on a scale that makes this commercial. A drill hole right in it one believes is the great find of the times, and then becomes a disappointment. That is what has happened in the 16th round of the concession – I had almost said under the responsibility of the former council of state Akselsen – and then it has not been found as much as one had hoped. What we hope for now is that new findings in the 17th round can provide new optimism in the Norwegian petroleum industry. We really need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e854	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e857	Petroleum industry is Norway’s main industry. Oil and gas activities on the continental shelf account for a large proportion of the country’s revenues through its direct financial involvement, the tax system and state ownership. The industry accounts for more than 20 pst. of gross domestic product and employment networks, directly and indirectly, approx. 220 000 people all over the country. For this reason, it is essential that we today facilitate the fact that Norwegian society can enjoy the petroleum industry for decades to come. At the same time, petroleum activities also affect other interests in the same sea areas. Government parties are therefore very concerned that we need to ensure co-existence between fisheries, shipping, the environment and petroleum activities. Such coexistence has worked well for 30 years with petroleum activities in the North Sea and for a few years in the Norwegian Sea. Based on these experiences, we shall achieve such coexistence in the northern regions, too, if full-year petroleum activities are allowed here. Because climatic conditions are even more challenging, and because these are important growing areas for many species of fish, even more stringent environmental requirements will be imposed in the Barents Sea for the petroleum industry than we have so far had further south. The Barents Sea is actually one of the cleanest sea areas in the world, and we have to take good care of that. Because this is an area where petroleum activity can collide with important environmental interests, the government has started working on an impact assessment of all-year petroleum activities. The Government Parties already announced this in the Sem Declaration, assuming that this impact assessment will be so thorough and comprehensive that it can be a good basis for addressing the issue of further petroleum activities in the area. This has been duly mentioned by several speakers before today, and there should now be no doubt about it. There will also be a good contribution to the Northern Region Management Plan, which the Government will subsequently present and which will take into account the coexistence of different interests. When the Government and the majority of the population will base the impact assessment on further decisions on the activity in the northern regions, this shows that we are taking the environmental challenges seriously here. Consequently, should the impact assessment show that there will be serious environmental objections to petroleum activities in some areas, petroleum activities will not be opened up in these areas until it is certain that the identified environmental challenges will be satisfactorily addressed. The Barents Sea is an important spawning area for many species of fish. This I expect will be given great importance in the impact assessment. It has been focused on the fact that the emission of alkylphenols in water produced can reduce the fertility of the cod – correctly demonstrated only in laboratory tests, but this will be serious and will require us to proceed with caution. The size has adopted a zero emission requirement for water by 2005. This means that no water produced is released into the sea. The government parties have said in the Sem Declaration that we want to ensure that the goal of zero emissions at sea is achieved. Today we are discussing the oil and gas activities on Norwegian continental shelf. We still have to be able to raise our eyes a little bit. In a few years' time, there will be extensive oil and gas activities on the Russian side in the north, with the challenge this will represent for the environment. This puts the Norwegian environmental debate in perspective. The Norwegian petroleum industry is subject to some of the world’s most stringent environmental requirements and has shown to address environmental challenges in an excellent way. It is my hope that through the Norwegian petroleum activity we can also participate in and develop a standard of activity on the Russian side of the border. This is why, in fact, a still high level of activity in Norwegian oil and gas activities and the technologies and competences that we are working on through them can prove to be in the interests of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e872	Norwegian pedestal experiences strong global competition. The exploration activity is record low, and the activity and exploration activity in the Barents Sea has still not become a full-year and continuous activity after approx. 25 years in the area. The exploration activity during this period has been subject to a number of short or longer periods of suspension. There is now a serious risk of further delays and uncertainties in the ongoing impact studies and the preparation of an overall management plan. It seems that the Government and the majority of the population do not care that 174 research and investigation reports have been carried out so far in the northern regions, for more than half a billion kroner. Then, in my view, it should be completely unnecessary to get such a stop now. For me, it is totally incomprehensible that the government parties with the Right in the head cannot support our proposal, which will carry out the impact assessment and help to facilitate the activity of already granted licences over the next year. It will be important for a rapid start to further activities on the Norwegian side of the Barents Sea, so that the Nordic and Norwegian business communities are best prepared to participate in similar activities on the Russian side. Norwegian technology and environmental standards should be the standard for oil and gas activity in the Barents Sea. Moreover, technology and environmental standards have developed sharply since petroleum activity started more than 30 years ago, and are at a global standstill, which is a certainty for the fishing industry as well. This provides a reinforced basis for an adequate petroleum activity in the Barents Sea – within the environmental standards applicable. Environmental work is misunderstood as politicians now increase political uncertainty and scare oil companies away from Norway. As a result, investments in oil and gas extraction go to other parts of the world, where environmental requirements are much lower. In the wake of the accident of «John R.» outside of Troms on the 1st of Christmas day two years ago, there was a lack of oil protection and coastal traffic monitoring. It is only to be noted that traffic monitoring is about the same level today as it was two years ago. At the same time, traffic, not least from the Russian side, is increasing with oil tankers along our coast. The oil defence system itself is also inadequate. A number of media lookups have also called into question the Norwegian oil protection system. A number of professionals in the oil industry, environmental organisations and other related bodies have expressed doubts as to whether Norway has sufficient material to prevent an oil tank accident from having a significant environmental impact. On that basis, we have asked the Government to give a statement to the Storting on oil protection, on which we have received positive signals. The Progress Party will focus on traffic and preparedness when the ‘Rent and Rich Sea’ forecast is addressed, so that we can address these problems and increase safety and preparedness along our coast. After reading the position, reading newspapers and hearing the debate, I have become more uncertain about what the government parties and the Workers' Party have cooked together. On the other hand, SV has interpreted what has emerged as if the government parties and the Workers' Party are opening up the Barents' Sea. We in the Progress Party have interpreted it differently, as if we were closing the Barents Sea. When these two parties are able to interpret this as differently as one does, it is worrying for industry, which still has to live with uncertain conditions in the future. It confirmed insofar as too Onarheim in his post. I think it should be noted that the post by the representative Synnøve Konglevoll, where she said that it is the Council of State that is going to clarify whether there will be further activity in the Barents Sea through the impact assessment. It's disclaiming responsibility. At the end of the day: Synnose Konglevoll mentioned the precautionary principle in his statement. Everyone knows what the precautionary principle means in this hall: it means full stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e898	SV has today put on the table a proposal to stop the further expansion of the Snow White field. After hearing the debate here today, it seems unlikely that the proposal will have a majority, even if I still cross my fingers in order for reason to prevail. But if what I fear is going on, Stortinget also has a proposal today from the Center Party to set up a central environmental monitoring centre near the Snow White field to monitor the activity of Snow White and shipping in the area, so that environmental safety is improved. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment believe that the issues raised in the proposal belong more naturally to the discussion of the so-called maritime environmental communication. The minority, consisting of us and the Center Party, will vote in favour of today's decision to set up such a central one. I must also note that I find it very strange that the majority has now found out that this matter belongs more naturally in another debate. I must be allowed to recall that it was actually the majority of the committee that wanted the matter to be dealt with now in the context of the oil and gas notification. For me, the governments' manoeuvres smell a bit of unvaluation and try not to decide on the proposal. In our opinion, it is naive to believe that the development of Snow White does not involve an increased risk of environmentally harmful marine emissions in the Barents Sea. The opening of Snow White will mean increasing ship traffic. Although these ships are not intended to carry oil in the first instance, accidents involving gas-carrying ships could also have significant environmental consequences. There are many who have pointed out that Finnmark has too poor oil protection, especially in view of the expected increase in transport from the Russian part of the Barents Sea. Among other things, the County of Finnmark has stated to Nordlyn that oil protection in the county is too poor to prevent an accident involving tankers from developing into an environmental disaster. There is also no device capable of delimiting such an accident. And there's no real plan for how to deal with any oil disaster outside the Finnish coast, even in the middle of our own dish. I find it alarming that the majority of people in this room don't think it's urgent to do anything about this situation. It's sad that it's just us and the Center Party who will vote today for the Government to present a case to strengthen coastal and oil defence in the north. Yes, it's more than sad, it's clean and cut discharge. But oil and gas activities are not just a threat to the natural environment in the Barents Sea. According to the Council of State, or the head of bad weather, as we in SV like to call him, emissions of greenhouse gas CO2 from Norwegian oil and gas production have been at 190 million since 1971. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In addition, the total emissions resulting from the combustion of Norwegian capped products amount to a total of approximately 9000 million. tonnes of CO2. Man-made climate change is the most serious environmental threat we face, and with these figures on the table it should be clear to everyone that the Norwegian contribution is formidable. This is one of the main reasons why we in SV want to slow down the pace of oil and gas operations. Unlike the majority, SV will also save some of our natural resources for future generations. Instead, our alternative is to focus on the development of new renewable energy sources, on the basis of a vision that this will both provide new industrial development for mainland Norway with sustainable jobs and reduce our contribution to the greenhouse effect. It is only to be noted today that the majority are in doubt about the fossil mindset.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e915	Today we are dealing with the setting of the oil and gas business. But let me give some initial consideration to the entire energy and industrial policy. It goes on that I think we are now dealing with the cases and the messages differently and at different times. This means that the overall strength and coherence are very fragmented and divided, and I feel that we lack strength and weight in the political decisions when we deal with them that way. So today, we do not get a complete idea from the Government in the field of energy and industrial policy. Focus needs to be on increasing value creation and the creation of new jobs in future Norway. We see how CO2-free gas power plants have been treated in budgetary terms, we see how the hydropower, I was saying is not being treated in the Stortinget at all, and we see the treatment of the Statnet system and different parts of the country. State power e.g. should be a major instrument in our energy policy, and we have even agreed in this House that it should be a leading European company. Then the government goes to work in its industrial policy and in the budget and almost robs State power – 95 pst. the dividends are taken. What is left of the great good instruments that we have arranged to use in our energy and industrial policies? Wholeness and dynamics in the government's policy are completely gone. That is where I miss a holistic approach and a strategy so that as an energy nation we can gain weight and an offensive in our energy and industrial policy thinking. We are going to deal with the gas message later, but I really miss a goal in this message from the Government in relation to the use of gas. Where is the emphasis on funding, action plans for infrastructure construction as well? We are talking here about some of the most important plans for Norway, the transport plans for energy in the future. It's probably none of the energy companies that want to join and add new cables to Denmark, to Germany, to England. We have to go through Statnett, also on the economic side. So over to the oil industry: there is now a great deal of unrest in the oil industry. The activity level is very low at the moment. Half the rig is in storage, and many dry wells have been drilled. The search activity is at a low level, and it hasn't been so small since the beginning of our oil age. A lot of redundancies are coming now. It's simply too little work for the companies. We now have to make ourselves available in this situation, I was about to say. We have to have an offensive line here, and we have to get an optimism into this sector. There's too much talk about an industry in the sunset. We have to get in optimism. That new people will bet in this industry, and can take care of the jobs, we need that in the future. Then we must also look at the framework conditions for this industry, and I am very pleased that the Committee here makes a strong contribution to the Government that it needs to address new framework conditions for the small fields and tail production, also in order for new companies to be involved in this production. It's socio-economic strategically important now to get it done and put it in place. I also have to say that when it comes to the allocation of blocks, it has to be possible to see how long companies will be on their licenses. It is important to consider whether companies should be on these licences for a much shorter period so that they do not lock the area and others cannot enter it. Here the government must take the initiative, it must be offensive, it must bring dynamics to the base, so that we can get operators in place and get the jobs and the value creation into port. I think we are now locking too much to rounds, in one and two years, etc. A completely different dynamic needs to be introduced, so that the activity, professionals and value creation are in place in these perspectives. In the end, I said in the beginning that I was missing a complete blockage. I also miss a holistic approach to the government's strategy to exercise its ownership of the various state companies, so that we can't collapse after collapse here. It concerns licences, allocation rounds, but also a strategy for offensive energy policy vis-à-vis Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e933	Oil and gas activities have been, are and can continue to be a crucial contribution to the value creation that enables the Norwegian welfare society to be further developed. But then, at the same time, we face several important choices, first of all, how we can set up a business that gives us the highest possible value creation, taking into account the environmental and safety requirements that we have and still have to rely on. The government has made it clear in the message that there is a great deal of tension between looking back and basing what has been achieved, and the option, with an active commitment to developing petroleum resources in a cost-effective way. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee and in the Stortingen on an offensive petroleum policy. It is essential for the creation of value added, it is essential to ensure the financing of the welfare society, and it is essential for industrial development. But then, of course, certain assumptions must also be made, as the majority have also pointed out, with active technology development, research and development focus, active concession policy and active exploration. The second key issue relates to how to use petroleum resources in such a way as to increase value creation and more jobs on land. In particular, there are questions about increased industrial use of gas, which we will also get back to in other contexts. We have reason to believe that there are significant oil and gas resources in the Barents Sea that can provide the basis for value creation and new business activities in the northern part of the country. It is therefore important that we have a rapid clearance for the development of the petroleum activity in the north. I therefore regard it as positive that the Workers' Party in the suspension has agreed that the issue of further petroleum activities in the north should be resolved on the basis of the impact assessment that will be completed next year. This means that one should not postpone this treatment until a comprehensive management plan is in place, several years in time. The rapid clarification of the situation is important for the oil industry to have the basis for the decisions to be taken on further activity, and it is not least important for the population and business in Northern Norway to have a decision on the basis of further developments as soon as possible. I have noticed that representatives, among others. calls for the issue of environmental monitoring and criticises the majority of current proposals. These are issues that I suppose the Committee will come back to in the context of the Marine Environment Storing Communication. However, it is also the case that a concerted increase has given strong attention to these issues, even in a common position of the Justice and Defence Committee in the context of the Vulnerability Communication. It shows precisely the situation of several speakers, that the challenge here is not related to the transport activity associated with the development of Snow White, but primarily to the fact that there is now a significant transport of oil from Russia and a significant transport of nuclear waste to Russia. To meet this situation, there is a need to strengthen maritime surveillance. For this reason, the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee agreed that it should: In view of the increased transport of oil from Russia, it is necessary to strengthen monitoring of the Norwegian coastline and to strengthen preparedness for major accidents and accidents, and the Government was asked to investigate the establishment of an environmental monitoring unit for the northern regions. I assume that the government will do that. I would also like to point out that these committees agree that it was environmentally important to ensure good monitoring of maritime traffic in the northern regions and that it is considered that the Government should make proposals for its organisation, possibly in connection with the coast radio station in Vardø. I hope that the Minister for Fisheries, who is responsible for this preparedness, will follow up this comment of a unanimous defence committee and justice committee as quickly as possible, so that such a central one can be established in Vardø, which is absolutely essential in order to ensure preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e956	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e960	Today's debate has simply focused on, among other things. the following three areas: profitability, safety and the environmental perspective. That's good. Norwegian oil and gas activities have a long tradition and good experience in focusing on just this. For those of us who believe and trust that oil companies will continue to be serious naturalists and active industrial builders in the future, it is generally clear that the Stortinget is leading this business. We want the Norwegian oil and petroleum industry to be world champions in profitability, safety and environmental thinking. So let's look east and ask the following questions: What active dialogue do Norwegian authorities have with the Russians, who are now at full speed into the oil age in the Barents Sea? What active dialogue do we have? We have heard today that impact assessments are being carried out in the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea, and management plans are to be made. And that's good -- that's great. But do we know enough about what the neighbor is doing on the other side of the grey zone? It must be right to challenge the Government on these issues, and it must be important that the Storting is constantly informed about what is happening on the Russian side in terms of oil and gas activities. It has already been established that a quarter of the expected Norwegian resources are located in the Barents Sea. New technologies will facilitate, in the future, both safer and more efficient use of the fields. How can Norway help to ensure that new knowledge of the environment, safety and efficiency can also be used on the Russian side? My concern is this: firstly, the Norwegian oil and gas industry must be followed up so that the operators operating in the northern regions have respect for the resource base and for the other industries using the area have respect for the environment in general, while focusing on profitability and value creation. Secondly, the dialogue with the Russian authorities must be close and constructive. In the fishing district of Finnmark, there are high expectations for future oil and gas activities in the north, as this can be achieved at the same time as taking into account the needs of fishing industries, namely that oil conservation in the north must be good, i.e. much, much better than today. We have to take this seriously, and I expect that when the Stortinget is going to deal with the marine environment message, the Stortinget will also ensure oil protection in the future in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e975	Oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil have been an important industry for Norway for many years. It has contributed more than possibly any other individual sector to the development of the welfare society, as we know today, through huge revenues that have been brought to the treasury. For many years to come too, the importance of this sector for the country will be great. There is a lot of talk today about the oil business as a sunset business, and it may be right, in the sense that the largest oil deposits are likely to be found, and that the level of production has reached the peak and will gradually flatten out and decrease. However, there is reason to believe that at least from a 50-year perspective, we will be a significant oil nation in parallel with the prospects we have for gas production. There are very few countries in the world that are as privileged as we are, based on the fact that we can plan the management of our natural resources in such a long time perspective. The petroleum industry is currently facing new demands and challenges, not least in relation to the environment. Although Norwegian pedestal has come a long way in environmental production in the international context, we have significant challenges related to both water and air emissions. Uncertainty has been created about the impact on fish on the cap while greenhouse gas emissions are significant, and indeed the main contributor to our total CO2 emissions. In relation to our Kyoto commitments, this is a very demanding challenge, and I am therefore pleased with the initiatives taken by the Government in relation to the possible electrification of all or part of Norwegian pedestal. At the same time, the Communication has focused strongly on the challenges associated with existing oilfields and their possibilities for more extraction. I think this is very important in order to be able to maintain the level at a time when the search activity and also the frequency of findings have fallen significantly. I also think it is very important to point out that it is designed to enable the small operators in the industry to continue to fit in with the socket, especially in relation to specialising in areas where the large companies are moving out. In conclusion, I would like to comment on what Mr. Vaggen Malvik has said about Snow White, and to reject the fact that what is in the vote is a form of accident on the part of the majority. So it's definitely not. It is simply an expression that the majority wants to work in an orderly manner and place matters in the context in which they actually belong. I record that SV has been very focused during the debate on doing all the others irresponsible. We're irresponsible about the exceedances, because we don't have the same clear position on what's going to happen up there, but we're also irresponsible," says Vaggen Malvik, in relation to what might happen around Snow White and security there. Finally, I would just like to thank you for the debate, but warn against making it as tabloid as the SV has done during this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e990	The rapporteur initially drew up the perspectives of oil and gas extraction in the northern regions, and the opportunities offered by new findings for Norway and North Norway in particular. In addition, individual oil companies claim that the geological indications related to the Lofoten and west of Lofoten offer the same opportunities for finding as in the whole North Sea combined. That is what I think sets the range of opportunities in perspective and relief with regard to the large income opportunities and employment opportunities that we have ahead of us in the Norwegian – and Northern Norwegian – continental shelf. But regardless of when this business and production starts, we need to constantly develop new knowledge. In the Communication, the Government says that it will focus on the development of new technologies and skills. If we go back 30 years, Norway was a developing country in this area. We could hardly do anything about oil and gas technology and oil and gas extraction. During this period there has been enormous and focused on the transfer of technology to Norway and the development of technology and expertise in our nation that makes us world leaders in some areas today. In the same way, I hope that both the Council of State and the Committee, in particular in cooperation with the companies, will facilitate the transfer of competences to the Nordic areas of competence and to the Nordic business community, so that they can qualify to participate in oil extraction, oil activity and, above all, to create activity on land. Environment, cold climate, transport, logistics in Arctic waters, new technologies and engineering skills and industrial industrial development based on petroleum resources are examples of areas where we need and can develop knowledge environments as well as technology environments in Norwegian, and Northern Norwegian, contexts. I think it is very important that, from the national level, now provision is made for not only the use of resources located off the North Norwegian coast and in the Barents Sea, but also to facilitate positive developments in rural areas in the same region. Finally, I must be allowed to say after listening to the debate that SV lives in the error of not driving oil and gas development in the Barents Sea. There is already considerable activity going on, and we need to help us also participate in this development and not least facilitate the conditions so that we can deliver competences to this part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1007	At the end of the debate, I would like to begin by giving some praise to the Government. The government presented the Marine Environment Communication in winter. Then, in the summer, they put forward this message about the oil and gas business. It seems to me that this was a natural order, that the marine environment was first discussed – what opportunities, what constraints – and, if necessary, what oil and gas activities are involved. At the same time, I have to bring some rice to the committee in order to reverse the positive order that the government had set up, and deal with the oil notification before we have dealt with the notification of the marine environment. When you hear the debate today, you shouldn't think it's like we've never gotten more oil than what we're doing now. That debate has been about, is how we are going to be able to address what we have left, as quickly as possible. Old debates on the rate of oil extraction and tempo selection are like wind blows, as are old gentlemen like Hermod Skånlands and not least Kåre Willoch's wise words that there was nothing like hot oil production, oil extraction was on capital. It's like we've been given these non-renewable resources, and it's up to us to manage them in such a way that as many generations as possible can benefit from them. I have heard many worrying comments that we are not taking up these resources quickly enough today. I want to end with a worried contribution on behalf of those who do not get part of the non-renewable resources because our main concern seems to be getting them up as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to mention something that perhaps for some is a curiousness, but which for me is a serious cross of thought. In spring, outside Røst, the Marine Research Institute discovered a deep-water coral reef. Coral reefs are one of the finest and most exciting ecosystems on earth. This coral reef was 100 km2. We didn't know before in spring that there was. It's a serious cross of thought that we can discover such a great thing, which is so big, so late, and it says quite a lot about how little knowledge we have about the environmental resources and the ecology that exist in the marine area this debate has largely concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1018	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see pages 1404 and 1405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1032	Electricity is very important in Norway. Through strong investment in hydropower and the expansion of a nationwide transmission system, electricity has long been the carrier of the Norwegian energy supply. Electricity has laid the foundation for a major power-intensive industry. The rich availability of hydropower in the past has also led to its being used today for large-scale heating. The last time an energy minister stood on this platform and explained a worrying force situation was in the dry year 1996. This year we have again experienced a strong price rise in electricity as a result of a very dry harvest and early winter. The current situation is partly more difficult than in 1996 and also shows how vulnerable we have become to failure in hydropower generation. I have a great understanding that many people react strongly to the increased power prices, and it is probably not going to come from the fact that there will be high electricity bills for many for a long time to come. For some, electricity billing will be a particularly burdensome expenditure burden. Some of these also have little opportunities to reduce electricity consumption in order to reduce costs. Therefore, in order to compensate for increased electricity prices for groups with low payability, the Government has decided to increase the support for light and heat for retirement, disability and survivors pensioners receiving housing support. The scheme will cover about 75 000 households. I refer here to the information sent out by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs last week. I think it is positive to do so, among other things. energy companies and consumer authorities are taking initiatives in relation to customers who may have payment problems with electricity bills next year. However, there is reason to warn against arrangements involving excessive interest rates on deferrals of payments. It just makes a difficult situation even worse. I have also taken the initiative of a meeting with the power industry to discuss what can be done to facilitate payment problems that may arise for consumers with low paying ability. Many power companies have already assessed such measures, and some also cooperate with the Social Agency on targeted schemes. The government will closely monitor the situation of electricity customers in the future due to high electricity prices and will consider further measures to remedy the situation of low-paid customers. Otherwise, I will continue working with the power companies to find flexible and targeted solutions. Electricity production, which is mainly based on hydropower, provides Norway with a clear environmental benefit. But an electricity supply that is heavily dependent on rainfall also makes us very vulnerable to weather variations. Production in the Norwegian hydropower system in a normal year is estimated to be about 118 TWh, while production is estimated to vary as much as from 90 TWh to 150 TWh per. years. So the voltage in annual production is as large as half of the annual production in a normal year. This represents a significant uncertainty in the supply of electricity. The uncertainty about what hydropower can produce each year is a fundamental element of current energy supply, which requires particular attention. The second is that over many years there has been a weak growth in production and transmission capacity compared to the growth in consumption. In addition, growth has been decreasing. For example, total production capacity increased by only about 4 TWh from 1990 to 2001. At the same time, the growth in the use of electricity has been significant. Electricity consumption increased by about 19 TWh from 1990 to 2001. The low increase in production capacity relative to electricity consumption has resulted in Norway having a significantly higher power consumption than we can produce ourselves this year with normal rainfall. Developments over recent years have therefore made energy supply more and more vulnerable to droughts. We rely on the power exchange in and outside the Nordic region to work well. The common Nordic power market is important for security of supply in Norway. However, even in the Nordic region as a whole, the share of hydropower in production is so large that year-to-year variations can create significant problems in terms of security of energy supply. What's happened in the last few months illustrates this. In addition to the first six months of 2002, the magazine filling in the Nordic power stations was consistently above normal levels. Warehousing increased through the summer until the beginning of August. As a rule, magazine filling is around unchanged from the change of month of July/August until the middle of October, despite a significant increase in power consumption during this period. One important reason for this is that the intention of the water storage plants during this period is normally high. This year, however, magazine filling fell sharply in both Norway and Sweden during this period. Due to early winter and low rainfall since the summer, the strong fall in magazine filling continues from mid-October until now. Developments have led to the entry of warehouses in both Norway and Sweden below the minimum levels for similar weeks in the last 10 years. From August to November, the lowest recorded in the last 70 years was clearly the intention of the power stations. The failure of the intention is intended to exceed 15 TWh. In addition, Nordic hydropower production has been slightly higher than normal. This must include, inter alia: is seen in the context of the fact that production and transmission capacity in other parts of the Nordic power market during the autumn has not been exploited as one could expect. In Norway, the average magazine filling at the entrance to the week 50 was more than 57 pst. This is over 20 percentage points lower than at the same time last year. There are wide variations in magazine filling in different parts of Norway. The situation is considered to be particularly worrying in the area between Sauda, Rogaland and Orkdal, South-Trondelag. In the dry year 1996, Norway had almost as low magazine filling at the same time. However, the current situation is clearly more difficult. This includes, inter alia: related to the fact that the consumption of electricity is now higher than in 1996, while generating capacity is approximately the same. Furthermore, the harvest in South Norway has been extremely dry, and winter has come early. This means that contributions from river power plants are at a low level and that groundwater levels are low, resulting in a low level of coverage of all magazines during the winter. The last part of the autumn 1996 was relatively mild and rainy. This improved the situation beyond the autumn of 1996. Furthermore, we have to note that developments in consumption and consumption in the other Nordic countries have been as in Norway. This means that the force balance in Sweden is now even tighter than in the past. The current situation in the power market is therefore of concern. It has been claimed that the problems in the power market are now due to the fact that producers have kept high production in order to exploit the export potential. Now, of course, power companies want to make the best use of the resources in the water storage plants and get the highest possible income from power generation. However, when manufacturers make their production decisions, there will always be considerable uncertainty about future supply and future prices. In retrospect, it will always be easy to criticise the course of production. But I would also like to remind you that it is only two years since there was significant criticism, and questions were also asked in the Stortinget regarding whether some producers had produced too little in the autumn, thus contributing to flooding and increased flood risk. There is reason to stress the need for all actors in the power supply to assume their responsibilities in this particular situation, so that all available generation and transmission capacity can be used to the maximum extent possible. This is also underlined in meetings in the ministry with NVE and Statnett. However, it is not such that the power producers choose where the power is to flow. Nor do the power producers get a separate price for power that goes out of the country. All power sellers in the Nordic region translate their power into a price on the Nordic power exchange. The actual flow of power depends on the relationship between consumption and production in different parts of the Nordic region and the capacity of the transmission system. The evolution of the power market has led to a very strong increase in electricity prices on short-term stock exchange contracts over the last few weeks. This development is common to all Nordic countries, i.e. not just Norway. The strong price increase is now also in the process of passing through the prices of business and households. There has been little more than a year and a half since Stortinget discussed important aspects of the power market, where clear signals were also given on what situations could arise. In this respect, I would like to quote from the report by the Minister for Oil and Energy, Mr Akssen, on the subject of hydropower and balance of power. This message states: ‘With a severe year of drying in the nearest years, there must be a sharp price increase in electricity both in Norway and in the other Nordic countries.’ And on the other hand, ‘The price increase in a dry year may be rapid. Furthermore, it must be assumed that market power can be unstable and that there can be strong fluctuations in prices.’» That's the situation we're in right now. The strenuous situation in winter depends very much on how temperatures remain in the large electricity consumption areas in the Nordic region. If it becomes a mild winter, there is a good opportunity for a relatively fast return to more normal market conditions. On the other hand, if it becomes a strict and long winter, the situation could be serious. The seriousness of the situation in this case will include, inter alia: depend on the speed with which consumption and production react to high prices. It is therefore important that the price mechanism be allowed to work, even if it may involve accepting high prices for periods of time. Higher prices mobilise all types of resources that in the short term counteract the failure of hydropower generation. There are other types of electricity production in our neighbouring countries and other energy carriers such as oil and wood. Higher electricity prices also stimulate the rational energy saving of businesses and households. I would also like to say that this can stimulate a sensible installation of new renewable energy sources that will gradually be introduced more and more into the Norwegian energy supply. Heat production has increased in both Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Plants previously placed in a mill bag, i.e. withdrawn from the production of market conditions, has now started up again. High prices have also increased imports from outside the Nordic countries. In the case of measures for consumers with low paying ability, I refer to what I said at the beginning of my presentation. I see it as important that, in this situation, emphasis is also placed on implementing the energy conversion and energy saving measures that are sensible in the long term. Such measures could contribute to a more sensible use of energy in the long term. However, more short-term measures will also be important and necessary. The reduction in large consumers, especially in the power-intensive industry, makes a significant contribution to stabilising the situation. Power-intensive industry has the opportunity to sell power in the market if it reduces its activity in winter, and I assume that at still high prices more companies will assess their power consumption in winter. However, such changes in the pattern of production may be problematic in relation to employment, and I would like to stress that it is the individual enterprise that, on the basis of an overall assessment, takes the decision on the sale of power. Technological solutions that enable two-way communication to provide more flexibility in consumption. However, this is primarily a tool to address power shortages, and not energy shortages that we have today due to low magazine fillings. Time measurement, combined with a power contract that follows the market price, will nevertheless be able to motivate customers to reduce consumption in high-priced periods compared to an end-user without hourly measurement. Times measurement can therefore increase the awareness of consumption, but this will be more time shifting of consumption than reducing consumption. Authorities are active in the process of assessing the socio-economic profitability of two-way communication. The NVE is currently involved in large-scale projects, one of which is in cooperation with the industry, among others. two network carriers have been promised an increased income framework to cover the installation of two-way communications for a total of 10000 end-users by October 2003. The speed and extent of consumption resulting from higher prices is uncertain. There has been a clear dampening of power consumption over the past few weeks despite temperatures having been low for the season. In particular, this is the case in the power-intensive industry and in electric boilers. However, it is too early to say for certain whether these are permanent changes in consumption trends. With the strained situation, close cooperation between the central network companies and the supervisory authorities in the Nordic region is important. The Nordic transmission system operators are working to make the best use of the overall system and contribute to the mobilisation of available generation capacity and transmission links to the current Nordic region. The Nordic electricity exchange Nord Pool plays an important role in the Nordic market and in the efficient use of the system. In the current situation, it is essential to have an efficient power exchange that has confidence in the market. Close contact with the authorities of other Nordic countries has also been established. In this respect, I would like to refer to the meeting I had last week with the Swedish Minister of Industry, where we discussed the situation. We agreed that all available generation and transmission capacity should be used to the maximum extent possible. Enterprises, general government and households must take advantage of their reasonable energy savings. The NVE and the Statnet network and system enterprise closely monitor developments and assess the appropriate measures. Since the stock of warehouses is extra low in some areas, with effect from yesterday, 16 December 2002, Statnet has split Norway into four electricity spot areas. Norway is usually divided into two electricity spot areas, separated by Dovre. The two new electric spot areas go from Sauda in Rogaland to Fardal in Sogn and Fjordane, and from Fardal to Orkdal in South Trondelag. The background to this division is that Statnet has assessed the situation in these areas so that if current driving patterns are maintained, some power plants may run empty on the afternoon. The new electricity spot areas mean higher spot prices in these areas if the desired transport of power to the areas is higher than the capacity limit in the network, i.e. prices adapted to the market situation in the areas. This will help optimise the use of warehouses and transmission systems, while stimulating higher prices to reduce consumption in these areas. I would like to stress that the setting up of local pricing areas is neither particularly dramatic nor any new instrument, but a market-based tool Statnet as a system administrator under the NVE regulations can use in such situations as we are now facing. For example, the North West was a separate price range last winter. I also see it as important that consumers are given good information about what measures might be appropriate to implement. There is clearly considerable uncertainty among the public about the situation in the power market, and press releases do have some different content and quality in this way. The government is now taking exceptional measures to reach out to the public with good information. It's set at 20 million. kr for this purpose. NVE will launch a wide-ranging information action aimed at different types of consumers in the autumn of the new year. The campaign shall be practical, informative and targeted in relation to the situation in the power market beyond winter and spring. This campaign is in addition to the wide-ranging information activities carried out by Enova as part of the environment-friendly energy conversion. The exchange of power in the Nordic power market is important for the efficient use of our overall resources. Lasting cooperation on the power market provides us with a safer power supply than we would otherwise have. Today, Norway is dependent on imports from our neighbouring countries this year with normal contingencies. In view of the importance of the exchange of power for us, it is important that no measures are implemented in Norway that could jeopardise the Nordic power market. In this respect, the Ministry will indicate that the Bondevik I Government drew up a strategy based on the existence of a power market and a power trade between countries. This is also confirmed by Nordic cooperation declarations. An important objective is therefore to work for a more efficient and secure Nordic power market. It will also serve the Norwegian security of supply. I would like to stress that, when we gradually achieve a better balance in the power market with more normal prices, this does not mean that the risk of serious dry-year problems in the Nordic energy supply is over. There is reason to believe that the ability to master a failure in electricity generation may be further impaired in the coming years. The expansion time in the power sector is long, and the projects that will be completed in the coming years will generate relatively small production growth. In addition, the situation is exacerbated by the fact that the other Nordic countries also have a weak growth in production compared to the growth in consumption. Let me stress that this government sees it as absolutely essential that it be brought up to a policy that improves the security of energy supply in the longer term. Security of supply needs to be given greater attention and resources without jeopardising environmental requirements and efficiency. But comprehensive measures will be needed. Policies must be based on efforts in a number of areas, which together can contribute to the desired long-term development. New transmission links between Norway and the Netherlands and Norway and England are being worked on. However, there is some uncertainty about these projects today, and final decisions have not been taken. The new transmission lines can reduce much of our vulnerability to dry years. The government's policy will be based on the broad lines of energy policy as drawn up in the Energy Communication and in the framework of the Government's energy policy as set out in the Sem Declaration. The focus of this policy is the conversion of energy consumption and production. The energy conversion consists of three parts — energy saving, transition from electricity to heat use, and production of several kilowatt-hours from new renewable energy sources. Enova is the main tool of the Government in this work. About 70 pst. Norwegian heating needs are currently covered by electricity. This situation makes it in heating we have the greatest possibilities for a conversion. The government will continue to invest in waterborne heat and has recently put forward a strategy for this. A central goal of the Government is to increase the use of waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources by 4 TWh by 2010. The Government also aims to expand wind power plants with a production of 3 TWh by 2010. Wind power projects receive public support in order to provide an important contribution to energy supply. The NVE has already granted a concession to projects which can give a total of about 1.7 TWh wind power per year. years if they are realised. I would also like to point out that the key aspects of energy policy have recently been presented to the Stortingen in the gas communication. In this Communication, the Government draws up the main lines of a policy for increasing the use of gas in Norway. In a long-term strategy for improved security of supply, the use of gas can also make an important contribution to flexibility, both in terms of direct use of gas for energy purposes and in terms of gas power stations where CO2 is managed in a sound manner. The current situation makes it necessary to challenge the North’s view that electricity should be cheap — in any case. Substantial efforts are now being made to mobilise available resources and to save on current. However, the main measures of authority are to help change production and consumption on a sustainable basis. While we are doing what can be done to mobilise all resources in the short term, we must work to achieve a more robust energy supply than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1141	The President will propose the opening of a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each group of parties and possibly a closing post from the Minister for Oil and Energy. – No objection has been raised against this procedure and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1146	The situation we are facing in the power market is serious. Although there would not be a need for streamrations beyond the winter, it is serious when prices are as high as they are now and as they are warned to be even beyond the winter. It affects both the individual consumer and industry. Although prices are determined by the market, as politicians, we cannot discharge a responsibility for the situation, as I think the Council of State is now doing too much. The main reason why we're in the situation we're in today is that there's not enough power available. Power consumption is increasing, while little and nothing is being done to increase production. The most important thing we can do to avoid getting into similar situations in the future is to make sure that there is more power produced. In addition, we need to put in place measures to reduce the increase in consumption. Much can be done to increase market power. The focus here is on alternative energy. Then there must be a far more offensive line than the government adds, to get ahead of this work. The introduction of technology-neutral support schemes and mandatory green certificates for new renewable energy must be central to such a strategy. We must note with disappointment that the Government does not support this, which both environmental organisations and the power industry support. The fact that Norway is not self-sufficient in power either in such extreme situations as we experience now, or in a normal year, results in us becoming dependent on imports of polluting coal power and nuclear power. There is a strange situation for the energy nation of Norway. I would therefore like to remind myself that the previous Bondevik administration chose to deal with the question of getting more power into the market. There is still a clear majority who want to use natural gas for energy purposes and who also want us to be able to develop gas power plants with so-called CO2 management as soon as possible. But I am disappointed to note that the government parties and the Progress Party have made sure that this too has been pushed out in time, by the strong cut of research that has just been adopted here in the Stortinget. This is not taking energy policy action to resolve the energy situation in the long term. This is an energy policy that can help make the situation we are now in permanent. The council is concerned that he can't do anything about the weather. Yeah, that's right. But the Council of State can take other steps – and I don't think the grips the Council of State here has shown are good enough to meet the situation we are now in. With the prices we now experience, we know that there are many who are going to have problems paying the electricity bill next year. We have a responsibility to find schemes that make people manage the power bill. That is why the Labour Party has today promoted a Document No. 8 proposals for the introduction of government loan or guarantee schemes, so that people do not take up expensive consumption loans to pay the bill. We also propose that the rates of light and heat in the housing stock should be brought more into line with actual expenditure increases and apply to all those receiving housing support. According to forecasts in the media, the government’s decision to increase housing aid will only increase support of around 450 kroner a year. The number of power customers is going to increase the electricity bill of approximately NOK 4000 – NOK 5000 in April. Then it doesn't mean much to give increases of 450 kroner a year, which in addition only a few people will be allowed to take part in. And when this money is to be taken in addition within the framework of the housing support, that means that one takes with one hand and gives with the other. Our proposal will therefore help far more than the Government adds, and in addition we also want it to open up monthly payment arrangements. I hope that the bulk of the population will support this and provide it with a quick treatment, so that the arrangements we are proposing can come into effect as soon as possible. It is positive that it is put up for an information campaign. We don't have anything against it. But it does not solve the problem that many people are going to have in January and April, and that is why it needs more offensive action. In conclusion, I must say that I hope I heard errors in what the Council of State said about – if he did not exactly encourage it – that the powerful or powerful industry should be shut down, and then I did not hear that the Council of State warned against this. We've already seen some examples of that happening, and people lose their jobs and have no guarantee that they will get unemployment benefits. What are the views of the Government and the Council of State on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1165	I thank you for the presentation by the Council of State. It is important to give an explanation of the rapid price increase we have had on electricity. It is not surprising that electricity prices have marked the news picture in recent weeks. The price increase has been so rapid and so large that the electricity bill for many has become an economic threat. In the context of electricity prices, it has been claimed that the liberalisation of the power market, i.e. the introduction of market prices, leading itself to higher prices. Of course, this is not right. However, it is true that if the demand left on the market is the first, while the supply side is generally influenced by the low supply of animal electricity, then we will be able to have strong price increases in extremely dry areas. The challenge for Norway, which is a major energy act, is therefore to strengthen the supply side of the market while at the same time focusing on increasing measures to limit the growth of electricity consumption. Governments correctly pointed out that we are part of a Nordic, partly a European power market. This should be able to cover consumption in scarcity periods in our market, while we can contribute to energy consumption in neighbouring countries in other periods. It is, however, that Sweden, which is close to us, as the Council of State also said, has also had abnormally low rainfall and is therefore in the same situation as us. The second force imported will be largely based on coal power, which is not very environmentally friendly. Governments were also concerned with the wide variation in production in the Norwegian hydropower system. With a variation from 90 TWh to 150 TWh, it is obvious that power supplies are vulnerable to weather variations and low rainfall. I think it's important now to take the challenge seriously. This means, among other things: carefully assess and stimulate the efficiency of existing power plants, assess the concession for the expansion and upgrading of hydropower plants so that they do not conflict with vital natural interests, and authorise the construction of micro-power plants where it is well suited. In the case of the three planned gas power plants that have created so much discussion here in Stortinget, they still have a concession for construction. It is for the owners themselves to assess whether the construction of one or more of these projects meets the profitability requirements of the owners. It is important to point out that it is also necessary to look at the network capacity both domestically and abroad in order to ensure that there are no bottlenecks in this scheme. Substantial efforts are being made to develop new renewable energy sources. There's a lot of interesting projects. But I think we should be so realistic that we realize that such projects will not be able to supply the necessary amounts of electricity in the very next few years. It is likely that fossil energy carriers will have to play a major role in our power supply for a long time to come. Therefore, research and development of new technologies to reduce emissions problems in any gas power plant is so important. It may seem unrealistic to arrive at economically feasible processes in this area within acceptable timeframes. Fortunately, history shows us that skilled scientists can suddenly see the light, and come up with unexpected solutions. It has to be allowed to be a little optimistic. We cannot wait for such breakthroughs, but start planning new capacity as soon as possible. I'm going to join the Council of State's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1186	I would first of all like to thank the Council of State for the presentation, even though I was not very impressed with the content. The immediate measures taken by the Council of State seem to me to be puzzling things, and although he now seems to have understood the reason for the price increase, there is no overall measure to increase the production of electricity. The current market situation is currently very serious. This is primarily due to the fact that over many years we have had a steady increase in consumption, even though the majority in this room has had the aim of limiting it. At the same time, we have had a very small increase in the production of electricity, which was also discussed by the Council of State. This is the responsibility of both this government and previous governments. This creates a situation of market imbalance and an almost explosive development in electricity prices. For many years we have warned that such a situation will arise, but unfortunately we have spoken for deaf ears. The council itself says that in a so-called normal year you will lack 7 TWh, which we have to import from, among other things. coal and nuclear power stations. Unfortunately, the government and the majority of the population have believed that alternative energy sources should be able to remedy the situation, despite the fact that this will not even cover today's deficit, not to say tomorrow's, with the most conservative projections. What most people care about a day is, of course, both the supply situation and the power price. Two weeks ago, we were told through the media that we could talk about power and disconnection. Now, luckily, it doesn't seem that this is going to be any of this, and that one at least has some control over this part of the situation. Unfortunately, the electricity price is totally out of control, and the long-standing political desert migration of the majority of the population causes the lack of electricity in the market to push prices up. It's almost incredible that we in Norway, with the very best conditions for providing cheap energy, have managed to mess it up in such a way. Instead of facilitating the conditions for increased power generation, you still have to stick your head in the sand and hope that most people will use less power. I think it's amazing that the Council of State doesn't take any self-criticism at all. He and the Government have obviously led a misguided policy in this area. And this policy, or rather, lack of policy, they have unfortunately got the majority on. It is alarming that the Council of State does not understand the seriousness of the situation when we see that more and more people have to go to the social office to get help with the electricity bill. At the same time, then, the Council of State sits calmly and looks at the fact that the richest state in the world incurs large extra revenues as a result of the increase in the electricity price. A newspaper the other day suggested that the extra income could go all the way up to NOK 10 billion. Of course, the key to balancing the market — and hence a normalisation of the price — is to increase electricity production. It is, however, a fact that the Progress Party is the only party that has shown action and has worked for this for many years. We supported the full expansion of the Upper Otta watercourse, while the result was half expansion. We were the only party that wanted to expand in Salt Mountain/Black, as the rest of the Stortinget went against, including the Norwegian Workers' Party. We are all alone on the part of the builders when it comes to the construction of small power plants. Here both the government and the majority say very fine, but when it comes to the piece, unfortunately, it's just empty words. We have also called for the upgrading and extension of existing power plants. Here it's a huge potential. Of course, we are also trailers of using gas for power generation. The problem is we're all alone. Nothing's happening. The most important thing in the short term is to bring prices down to a level that people can live with. In our alternative state budget, we proposed more than a halve of the electricity charge, but unfortunately we did not get a pass. It is essential that we now find solutions. By that I mean primarily tax reductions, so that at least those who have the least do not have the unworthy situation to go to the social office to get help with the electricity bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1205	I first have to replicate a little bit to the Progress Party, which seems to have forgotten that they are actually the party that is a supporting party for the Government and for a budgetary policy like, among other things. leads to people being unable to afford to pay their current bill. I think it would have been appropriate for the Progress Party at least to take on the responsibility they have shared in relation to the budgetary procedure. So to the matter itself. Let me start by thanking you for your presentation. I thought – as well as the Progress Party and the Workers' Party – that she was something tame, and that was nothing new. The fact that one should be informed makes sense, but it should have been speeding for too long. And the fact that the current doesn't necessarily have to be cheaper is SV to the extent that it also agrees. It seems that the main problem is that the council has no money. Despite the fact that the state now holds in billions of dollars because of the high electricity price, the government does not have any money to spend, because it has got its way through, among other things. cooperation with the Progress Party, which makes it impossible with concrete measures that will cost money. There is, in my opinion, one of the main challenges. And as we know, the government, in cooperation with the Progress Party, has cut off what is heart rate, CO2-free gas power plants. The strategies adopted by the Government are either too weak or have in some way fallen short of them in the cooperation they have set up in the budgetary context. In Stavanger Aftenblad yesterday, it was about a family that halved its energy use through relatively simple things – and through something that cost money. One was that a tight window and doors, and the other was that an installed ground and water-based heat pump. It cost a lot of money, and not everyone can afford it – at least not the 75 000 people who can't afford to pay the current bill. Therefore, there is a need for offensive measures to make people less dependent on power and thus be able to contribute to reducing the electricity billing. In this way, you can also release power, power in the market, so that a release of pressure on what the Storting has agreed several times, that is, to build out gas power plants, but this does not happen. That pressure can take away, the whole issue of hydropower expansion, too, if a housekeeper with the energy that one actually has today. In its draft budget, SV had a number of measures and proposals that go right into that category. We have also often suggested a two-price system. The Ministry of Finance says that no, that's totally impossible. And almost all the governments we've had since 1997 have said yes, that's impossible. But why does one have this clearly in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands and the United States? Why can't we get a two-price system or a three-price system, which they seem to have in Belgium, in Norway? It's strange that you can't catch the balls like that. SV is playing. Why can't you do what they do in Sweden to reduce the flow rate and consumption, give NOK 20 000 in support of the installation of water well heat? Why does not support the installation of heat pumps? In Sweden, an 8,000 Swedish krona is paid. Why can't we do something like this in Norway? Why can't a pellet scheme and solar collector be supported? These are measures that would actively make people less dependent on power, lower power and thus also contribute to the balance of power, which the Right Party and the Labour Party are screaming for at any time. One also has the ability to have a completely different focus on bioenergy. There's the Swedes in front. Norway is following. It's not because Norwegian authorities don't do anything, but they don't do enough. There is a potential in the field by field: wind power, on which the Council of State was involved, building requirements, the package of measures for district heating, reduction in the transmission tariff, which the Government has correctly addressed. There are a number of actions that can make people get a lower power calculation. The question is whether the government wants to, and whether they want to get the majority they need to bring down the power bills to people. So SV is ready to contribute to it. But so far the government is cheaper spirits and tax havens for rich people, through the cooperation with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1222	I would like to thank the Council of State for a full and good account of the situation in the power market. There are many aspects that have contributed to the situation we are now in. We have had an extremely low rainfall harvest and an early winter, which in sum has made the filling in the warehouses very small in relation to what was expected. In addition, operators in the market have exported a lot of power in the summer, perhaps unusually, and transmission capacity has also been limited. A main reason for the present situation is, of course, weather conditions, both in terms of power supply and market prices, which many consumers now experience as very difficult. The extra load on many electricity consumers may cause problems for both business and household customers to pay their bills. It's something that we obviously have to take seriously. I am pleased with the signals that have come from the Government on remedial measures for the weakest user groups. As the Council of State has explained, an active policy is being pursued to ensure energy supply. Let me briefly mention some individual measures: Energy saving and new renewable energy sources – Enova aims to release 10 TWh annually in new production and saving by 2010 – facilitating more domestic use of natural gas, upgrading, modernisation and expansion of existing power plants within an environmental framework, taking the view that existing hydropower structures need to be better exploited and the use of mini-power increased. The procedure for these has been simplified by this government. Finally, we want to accelerate gas power plants with CO2 handling. Despite what Jens Stoltenberg must have said on Tabloid yesterday, that the budgetary agreement with the Advance Party represents a sudden stop in bet in this area, of course it is not true. That process goes on. Securing the energy supply is not done overnight. It is the result of a long-term policy, how many actions to play together. The debate that is currently taking place can easily give the impression that it is possible to reverse developments very quickly, and that the price of electricity should therefore be reduced with almost immediate effect. Of course, it's not like that, and they also know well, the political actors who in these days in more or less populist ways are trying to make political coins at a time of trouble and are trying to create the impression that with another government everything would be so much better. I have to say that I think the Labour Party in this way has led in that strategy. The truth is, however, that with the Labour Party's policy in recent years, there would be no more force in the market than what we have access to now. In fact, we agree on the main lines of energy policy. The large hydropower extension phase is over, the objective of alternative energy use and an enlarged Union brings together the Workers' Party and the sitting government, and in the case of the Christian People's Party, we have largely only disagreed with the Workers' Party on gas power plant policy. But the decisions on the construction of these three power plants are, in fact, already firm. That these aren't built, the government can't be blamed for. So it's the companies themselves that so far haven't found the projects accounting equivalent. These would in any case not have remedied the acute situation that we are experiencing per year. Today, but of course they can contribute to more stable power availability in the future. Proposals for the establishment of a two-way communication system have been submitted from the Workers' Party. This proposal shall be examined within the Committee. I should therefore not foreshadow the result of that treatment now. However, it is important to bear in mind that such a system will not have a significant impact on consumption or prices. There is also reason to believe that the costs of implementing such a system will involve significant sums. On the other hand, this could have a positive effect on the balance of power, i.e. the utility, and is therefore an interesting input from the Workers' Party. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned about the situation in today's power market. We are also concerned about the security of supply of the future unless the necessary action is taken to strengthen it. Important initiatives have been taken by the Government, but more have to be done. I would like to stress that simple, populist play does not contribute to finding the constructive answers that we now need. The proposals made by the Labour Party are important, but most of them have already been dealt with in some way over the years by different governments, including the sitting. Finally, I would like to point out that we do not just have a power crisis. Today's situation clearly shows that we also have a consumption crisis, perhaps primarily a consumption crisis. It is truly an equally demanding challenge to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1245	I would like to thank you for your statement. It was okay. One might basically say that it was more predictable than the electricity prices have been in the harvest. There is little doubt that everyone – including parts of the power industry – believes that the current has become too expensive. So it's finding good solutions, both in the short and long term. Estimates show that ordinary households can get up to NOK 1000 in the increase in the electricity bill per year. months. It will amount to NOK 4000 – 5000 in additional expenditure in a very short time. If it is only the price to regulate the power consumption, it means that they can continue to consume most of the money, while they get a lot of problems with poor advice. There is a need for various forms of grants or cheap loans, so that those hit hardest can get help in an acutely difficult situation. It was therefore possible that the Council of State mentioned that this had been taken into account. In addition, the electricity price can be differentiated. It will affect people's habits. This could be done, for example, by: be cheaper to use electricity at night. In addition, it is possible to introduce – I would almost like to reintroduce – the concept of ‘two-price’ on electricity. It's claimed by many that it's too hard. But now parts of the power market – the most consumer-oriented – have also gone out and said that this is possible. That's very good, and I can tell you that the SV and the Central Party will be promoting a Document No tomorrow. 8-proposal that goes on exactly this with two-prices on the current. Otherwise, I will use the rest of the post to talk about other proposals that the Central Party believes are important in this context, if it comes in addition to the fact that we are confident that power plants will be upgraded, and that small power plants will be built in a number of places. So to the proposals: the first goes on more power market management in terms of requirements for magazine filling. The second concerns increased investment in alternative energy. Throughout the harvest, it has been known that magazine filling was abnormally low for the season. At that time, the centre party, at Enoxen, raised the issue of export-restrictive measures in Stortinget’s Question Time, once in October. The Council of State then rejected the need for such measures. It's getting pretty long since now, and the only thing that's happened since then, is that there's no more water in the magazines. As mentioned earlier, the reality is more expensive and expensive electricity and greater and greater concern for empty magazines. By the way, I must mention that when, in a reply to the Council of State during the last week's budgetary procedure, I noticed that Norway had a net export in force as late as November 17, I was explained that it was not the way it was going. We had a common power market in the Nordic countries. I knew that so far, but yesterday we could read in the evening post that now our country was divided into four electricspots, and sellers and buyers have to report specifically the area to which they are buying power. The point of this was to control, and ‘this system shall reduce the risk of local power losses’. When it comes to such regulation through parts of the country, almost one would believe that it could be implemented between countries within a common Nordic market, too — if one wants to. So back to Center Party Document No. 8-proposal for minimum requirements for the filling of warehouses in hydroelectric power stations. Consumers need predictability in order to be sure to purchase a power necessity product. In addition, the price must be predictable. Until now, power producers have been free to dispose of the water that would provide the basis for winter power supply, for exports beyond summer and autumn. And we know the result of this. The centre party wants to prevent us from getting these conditions back, and has therefore submitted a proposal to introduce requirements for magazine filling at different times of the year. The flow produced by Norwegian Footfalls is a common good that we will all benefit from. However, it is of course important to turn some of the power consumption into alternative energy sources. Enova would be a very important tool here, but the appropriations for Enova are unfortunately not as we might wish. Heating should be limited by the use of electricity. It should be seaworthy, and many people have been on fire for many years. But it's amazing that in this country there are also many houses that are built without pipes. In addition, it should be acknowledged that refuelling is not always as favourable. But other forms of new renewable energy can be used. I am thinking in particular of heat pumps and bio-fuels. It was therefore nice that the Council of State in the budget debate asked for a proposal for a loan and grant scheme for the installation of water and airborne heat to be submitted to the Government for further work. It's urgent to come up with good arrangements for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1266	I would like to thank Mr Stortinget for an interesting debate. Or, I'm going to use Mr. Inger Enger's description: a good debate, but predictable. What is important is that we get a broad understanding of what our energy policy is based on, namely the Energy Act and the Nordic power market. I have noticed Inger Enger's views, and also her suggestions, to which I am sure given the opportunity to come back. We need more energy, we need more renewable energy, we need energy saving, and we need to upgrade hydropower plants that can deliver more TWh, just by getting new pipelines, new power lines, new generators and new turbines. And you need a better cable to the rest of the world in the Nordic power market and better power lines, bigger power lines in our country. We also need gas power plants with CO2 management that can give us – in the longer term – a safer energy supply. I would essentially recommend the Stortinget to read the 1996 debate. It was instructive for me. I think it will also be instructive for the representative Sylvia Brustad. There is a lot of memory of today's debate, but only with different people in the different roles. Today I stand as the responsible minister, then it was Jens Stoltenberg. But the arguments, the accusations and the concerns were similar. It is shown, among others: that the gas power plants would have put us in a better position today if they had been built. I remember that there are given three concessions. This government has not prevented those who hold these three concessions from building them at any time. It has been a continuous process, but the owners have come to the conclusion that construction is not profitable. Then Jens Stoltenberg is in the NRK on 27 November and characterises this budget cut for research in gas power plants with CO2 management as very serious. Then I would like to remind you that the investment we now have in R & D at CO2-free gas power plants is this year higher than the one that the Stoltenberg government had in its budget proposal. Also next year the bet will be full on the level of what the Stoltenberg government proposed, so his statement that the budget cut is very serious is a quite peculiar characteristic of his own budgets. So Sylvia Brustad says that the extent of the housing in terms of light and heat is too small, and that the Workers' Party wants to increase it. I would like to remind you that the Labour Party in the 2000 budget would abolish the support for light and heat. But it got Bondevik I back in place. The housing aid scheme is now increasing by approximately 176 million. NOK 1,9 billion for 2003. There are about 105 000 households receiving such support. I said in my statement that I will closely follow the situation for those power customers who could have problems because of the high power prices. I also announced that, if necessary, I would introduce new measures to these groups. I can't confirm that the state will raise the large amounts that this is talking about. The Ministry of Finance has, among other things: shown that power companies will have reduced profits. I would like to say to Sylvia Brustad: we have been reviewing the Labour Party's policy in the energy sector in the last two years and have an interesting report for her, if she wants to see it. It shows, in general, that with the Labour Party's policy you would not get a single new kilowatt hour or one ear at reduced power prices in today's situation. Nor in the longer term would we have a better situation with the Labour Party policy, rather on the contrary, because, with the Labour Party's policy on new renewable energy sources, fewer kilowatt-hours than the government's policy would have. The proposal for support for energy conversion by the representative of Langeland is a good starting point. But something is also profitable for consumers, and something can even be done by consumers through appropriate information. But we should look at all the constructive proposals that contribute to the introduction of new renewable energy sources. There we have a common goal. And then to Inger S. Enger: The top ice cream system for electricity is done by several governments. I would recommend her to talk a little bit to Marit Arnstad, who was in the center administration and also considered this question. She found that it was not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1289	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Oil and Energy on the current situation in the Nordic power market be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1307	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1318	The starting point for today's debate is the so-called horse trade in connection with the handling of Innst. S. No 218 for 1991-92, which resulted in a decision in 1992 when the Oslo–Bergen tribal road was moved from Rv 50 through Hallingdal to E16 through Valdres. The Socialist Left Party was behind that proposal because they got a pass on the demand for abridged Bergensbane. So start the distribution work so that one would start building up during the 1994–97 planning period, cf. Norwegian Railway Plan. As you know, things take time, not least in the area of transportation and not least in this house. In November 1996, Stortinget deals with St.prp. No 64 for 1995-96 and Innst. S. No 12 for 1996-97 on a number of changes in promises. Then one came so far that one was left with the two options we are about to take up today: the Åsa or Kroksund/Busund option. The planning process, public oversight – everything has gone according to laws and regulations, both in the municipalities it is in, and in the Ministry of Environment and in the Ministry of Transport. The final proposal for the phase 2 distribution programme was approved in September 1998. Then came the national transport plan. The Ringerix Line was only mentioned because the case had not been dealt with, and one held there to what was attached to the 1992 decision: ‘It is assumed that the project will not distort priority investments, e.g.: Eastfold and Westfold Railways, or in Intercity context’.» In the setting of the National Transport Plan, Innst. S. No 119 for 2000-2001, wrote a minority, SV and the Labour Party, that one would return with 100 million. kr in the final part of the planning period. In the meantime, we've had a change of regime. Privatisation and AS-certification hail around our ears, and we take it seriously. Among other things, we in the Labour Party believe that one should be able to come back with a part of the sum of money for the preparation of the revised 2003 budget. The project is overmode. It is national among the best railway measures and should be considered as a OPS project. The railway needs a lift to meet today's standard. Our 100-year-old bulwark with antique treadmills has done their job. If we are to get the impact of the tilting train investment and bring down the running time, we need to do something quickly. So far, SV and the Labour Party were some. I'm assuming that the other parts will express their positions. The Labour Party has always believed that Kroksund was the best option. A new railway network should take seriously the fact that municipalities have their plans when it comes to construction, land use and solving other traffic challenges that they face. Only the Kroksund option does. Henfoss city today has the railway track across the city. Noise problems will increase for those living along the Roaban, if Åsa option is selected. When the Bergensbanen is 50 minutes shorter, the freight train will walk through the city far more times than they do today. Godstoga drove no turn-return Oslo–Bergen in one day. It's the time consumption and getting into Oslo that's the limit. Many have already been made to run an international transport train, with the extension of old tunnels. This could also reduce the pressure on the winter roads westward and be in line with the rail investment we see both in Sweden and in the EU. Switzerland is also a sample image in many ways. But double tracks into the station area in Hønefoss will require a new bridge, in competition with cultural memories and the old bridge on Bergensbanen. She's a klenoie. The Ringerix region is pointed out by this government to be a download area for Oslo. But the collective offer is bus – with increasing time consumption because the road capacity is blown up on both E16 and E18. The alternative is the four-field motorway, with the area consumption it requires. All information on the number of trains to Oslo from Hönefoss today is almost out of date. It goes without saying that people aren't running big shifts to the job. But what's really interesting is the time consumption on a new track for the nearby traffic – 30 minutes with the Ringerix track towards today towards two hours by bus in the rush time, or half an hour by train if one runs around the Drammen. It would be a revolution in travel. Train is the only collective supply Hallingdal has. As the country's largest travel region and the railway linking the two largest cities in Norway, it also gives the Vose region the same possibilities. Today, passengers are en route, over 70 pst. by the travellers. Road will never give us the same opportunities to compete for the tourist and conference customers. Time is an important factor, and while new railways increase speed and comfort, road accidents will only increase if one does not slow down there. In Hallingdal, more and more tourist businesses operate with red numbers. It's the backbone of our business. We notice that all infrastructure measures have come to other parts of the Austland in the last 20-30 years. We can live with that, says business. What matters is the organization so that we can take care of ourselves. They've always done that. The chairman of the Ring Kingdom was supposed to be sitting in the lodge today, but he has other things to do. The engineering was shut down today, and the rest of the defense soon disappeared. What was Ringerix's second leg to stand on is gone. About 500 jobs are lost directly, indirectly up to 1500. It would be in other parts of the country! Then the parcels for conversion had a seat loose. The abbreviation of Bergensbanen is scraped today, according to the Workers' Party's assessment. In any case, it would be an advantage for all parties if one had been so honest and said so, for the curtailment of land for an indefinite period is the worst possible. I cannot interpret the comment from Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party in any other way from what they write: ‘These members have noticed that the existing investigation material shows that it would not be socially appropriate to implement the project as it now exists. A number of other railway projects will need to be prioritised before the construction of the Ringerix Railway is appropriate.’» My claim is: there isn't one project that is so thoroughly funded. Nor are there many – if they exist – projects that have such a potential as Ringeriksbanen, Bergensbanen's abbreviation. The government has recommended the Stortinget to choose the new railway track that has the worst cost-benefit, which costs 700 million. kr more than the cheapest option, which goes where the municipalities do not think that development should take place, but on the contrary should be the recreational area of the region, and which does not facilitate the stop point where people live. We're told in the proposition that the area is lost in day zones by the construction of double tracks. Path is not considered a double track, it is located elsewhere. The Kroksund option is the worst way out here when it comes to the use of cultivated and cultivated land. We're offered a path that has a limited life span of 65 years. The reason is the choice of trasé, with 81 pst. tunnels through Åsa. Kroksund has 62 pst. Kroksund will facilitate new industrial development in a region that needs it, with potential for halting Helgelandsmoen. The Busund option passes a vaguely defined Ramsar range, but does not touch wetlands. It's grazing area for ducks, geese and swans. Ender is allowed to hunt. Gorges can be hunted, and the swane species that were previously on a red list of true species have been removed from there. The concentration is now so large that they are going to find new pastures. Even in Hallingdal, a more frequent and frequent swans are seen in connection with open water, where power plants release water. They're staunch to look at. We don't have a culture to house them, but we can't have a religious relationship with them either. Ramsar areas can be expanded. One has already signaled that all the Gulfs of the river around Henefoss can be contained. Both Sokna and Storelva, who surround the city in all areas, would stop all developments if that happened. We're all concerned about the environment and we're going to take it seriously. But it doesn't have to stop all development. In building up for the future, we need to use knowledge and experience that we all have. We're going to take care of the environment for generations to come. But the overall environmental account is such, seen with the Labour Party's eyes, that a realistic trase choice cannot be anything but the Busund option. So far, I've said a little about the rest of the Bergensbanen, but in the environmental account, it also counts that when the time consumed to and from Bergen comes down to 5 hours, the track will be a real competitor for flights on the same route. If one is to follow the Government's view that one can look at other improvements that can result in the same time reduction, one is likely to consume nearly three times as much money as the cost of this path. I will deal with the suggestions made by the Labour Party in the configuration dialog.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1374	Sigrun Eng has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1379	First, I would like to say that it is hardly added to the highest profile of the cord change in this case, at least not from our side. There is reason to consider something that the Workers' Party spokesman had at the end of his statement, which is quite correct in the Ministry's recommendation, where reference is made to a number of other railway projects which must have a certain priority and perhaps be realised before, and also to other sections of Bergensbanen which should be assessed in competition with this curtailment route. So the Workers' Party says in a joint comment with SV: ‘These members will demonstrate that the construction of the Ringerix track with stop points will relieve E16 and E18 and postpone the need for road development in this area.’ We know, at least in relation to private cars, that it's assumed by traffic count that it can drop by one percentage point from 84 pst. to 83 pst. And with the perspective that perhaps the bulk of the population will put on realization, the question is, how are road users going to read this comment from the Workers' Party, where the Ringeriksbanen and the abbreviation Bergensbanen are going to cover the road requirement in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1393	I'm hearing the right signal about their involvement in this case. It only reflects what is in the option. I take note of that. Now it's so that a local in the Ring Kingdom and the whole region has signaled that it's path they want. They haven't asked for the recovery of E16-E18 so far, to take that bit. So E18 is a different direction on the road. But it goes without saying that if they don't get a path, they can, tomorrow, or for the sake of it today, demand to get a four-field highway according to the road standard. In the Skui valley, which is starting towards Solli Height, road traffic is today at 36 000 cars, and above Solli Height it is at 14 000 cars. It goes without saying that if you don't want to relieve commuting traffic, but instead give full gas, with all the jobs that are now flowing in Ringerijk, they have to have more roads. They need to be more able to reach the labour market, and then the road requirement will come immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1402	The Labour Party and the representative Sigrun Eng are keen followers of this railway, and they are allowed to do what they want to do, even though the costs in 2000-krone are charged to several billion kroner. We all remember another course that was at the discussion stage a few years ago, the Gardermoban, and the costs it ended up at. I have read the minutes from that time, and it was Sissel Rønbeck who was the case rapporteur, if I don't remember completely wrong, and promised that this would be a golden course. It should have a return of 7 pst. We all know what the Gardermoban got into. I have a question for the Workers' Party and the representative Eng: is there any limit to how much this expansion will cost, or will the Workers' Party want the track to be built at any price?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1411	One of our proposals in the vote for which the Labour Party will vote is the proposal for the Kroksund option, with a cost framework of DKK 3.5 billion in 2000. When the representative Nistad is now trying to compare this project with the excesses on the Gardermoban, I think he will remember the unexpected costs that came, the leakage and all the other things that resulted in great costs, as well as the fact that – after the Gardermoban was determined in this house – it was added with new distances to make that path more accessible from among others. Mr. Nistad's area. As an counter-question – even if a non-exact question should be raised in such a case – I would like to ask: What kind of cost will a new four-field path have in this area? I think he's going to split up higher than the 3.5 billion. If it were to crack with 10-20 pst., it would still be within the frame of all such calculations. And as I said in my post, there is not one project in this country that is so well paid out. I actually believe in those who say that they have done a bit of thorough work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1420	Sigrun Eng said in his post that the Workers' Party has always been in favour of the Kroksund option. That's not right. When the agreement between the Workers' Party and SV, which helped to get the Ringeriksbahn on the map in 1992, was adopted, there was nothing about trajectory choices. When the case was up last, in 1996, the government of Kroksund cancelled, but in a joint remark from the Workers' Party and SV was asked to investigate both options. No position was taken on Kroksund. That's when the Workers' Party is going for Kroksund. One thing is a fact that if SV's alternative transport budgets had been adopted in the period from 1992 until today, we would have been building the Ringeriksban. The 1994-1997 Railway Plan earmarked 150 million. kr to the track, starting in 1997. This did not happen, and in the last six, if not seven, years of the 1990s, the Workers' Party has been sitting with the government and having the Minister of Transport, so they will probably have to take a considerable responsibility for not getting started with the Ringeriksban. My question to Sigrun Eng is: Does she agree that there is a lack of priorities for the railway that is why we haven't already started? Does Sigrun Eng also agree that there must be a completely different investment on the railways in the years ahead, if the Ringerix Railway is to be realised at all for the next 10 to 15 years, and that the Workers' Party must also invest more in rail than they do in the budget of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1429	When I said that the Labour Party has gone all the way – that is, it has not been stated in the Transport Committee, but in other contexts – has gone for the Kroksund option, that is right. I have not stated what SV meant in that matter, but that there were two alternatives, is quite correct. Here we go, sir. Hansen argued that SV's alternative budget had almost cut because the track was there today. Yes, it may be, but as I also said, things take time, and when it concerns the distribution work – listening to everyone who is going to say that, taking seriously all the objections and taking seriously all those who have had something to come to us – one in the proposition sees that the list of hearing statements is quite long. This means that we don't have to come anymore today. To SV's alternative budget – to the extent that one can see it as a realistic budget: rail does not cover the whole country, and SV is reasonably hard-handed in handling it when it comes to cutting down on the road. I'm not sure if we'd be able to get enough of ourselves to create a multiple for that. I don't think so. When it comes to the further bet on the views of the railway and the Workers' Party, I am probably in agreement with the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen in his view on the signals we have received from the Railway Agency, especially on the reorganisation, the confusion and possibly the closure – the ghosts that are there. We're going to take care of the capital that was once invested, and we're going to have to join forces around, almost to say, the main pulse wounds that are placed around the country. The biggest problem that I see in connection with what has been going on for years is the move of money away from the railway, or, perhaps it's more right to say, the lack of filling up the framework that we've been trying to give here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1444	It is not unusual to, among other things. environmental issues, cultural issues and soil protection must be assessed in a commercial project. But it's rare that all of these elements get so heavy into a project that they're doing in line for the Ringerix Path. After many options have been rejected, we are now left with two alternative paths, the Kroksund option and the Åsa option. Although adaptations and mitigation measures have been abandoned, both of these options will lead to major interventions, with consequences for the environment, natural resources and communities. This makes the Ringerix path a very difficult option. And I want to focus in my article on the trajectory options for the Ringerix track, because that's the proposition we're dealing with, debt. If it was only necessary to assess which options are cheapest, shorten the travel time most and after the forecasts will generate most traffic, the choice would no doubt be the Kroksund option. But we can't ignore the interference consequences that this option leads to. There are many heavy arguments against the Kroksund option. The route will go through the central parts of the plain landscape in the Ring Kingdom, an area that is a national priority cultural landscape. The sum of interventions will trigger major negative landscape impacts and lead to a change in character in this important landscape. The Ring Kingdom plain has traces of one of the oldest inland settlements in the country. Hole and Ringerike municipalities have very many automatically protected cultural memories and thus also the greatest potential for new findings. Although the Busund option's trajectory has been withdrawn in relation to the most culturally-historical sensitive areas, the line will go into an area with great potential for discovery of ancient memory under cultivated land and come in direct conflict with automatically peaceful forest cultural memory. Many areas of the Ring Kingdom are protected by the laws of nature conservation. The route of the Kroksund alternative will require intervention in Viksasen nature reserve and will go near Lamyra nature reserve. The Kroksund option may also have an impact on parts of the Northern Tyrifjord wetland system by allowing the bird to change its behaviour and reduce bird populations due to the risk of collision and nutrient loss. The Åsa corridor is considered to be less conflictful when it comes to landscape. This corridor also has fewer automatically peaceful cultural memories, but the trase of its day zones east of Steinsfjord touches on valuable cultural memories. Nevertheless, the Åsa Corridor is less contentious than the Kroksund Corridor when it comes to cultural memory and the cultural environment. The Åsa corridor will also provide the best overall assessment for the natural environment. It is worth noting that both trasé options for the Ringerix path will lead to positive noise improvements along the existing path. The number of dwellings exposed to noise will be reduced. Both options will result in buildings being decomposed, but there will be fewer buildings on the Kroksund corridor. The Åsa corridor is considered the best for outdoor and recreational activities. In view of the seizure of cultivated land, it is the Kroksund option that comes out worse. There are also some arguments that speak specifically against the Åsa option. Part of this trail goes under a nature reserve that is particularly vulnerable to drainage due to a protected lake. Regardless of the sealing methods, it is uncertain whether the line will lead to damage to the nature reserve. Furthermore, on parts of this trajectory there are items of alum discs. This rock has no practical use but can instead represent a pollution problem when landfilled. The rock contains sulphur bonds, so that drain water from deponia can be aggressive to concrete structures. So there are good arguments for and against both of these alternative lines. When selecting an option, the various arguments must be weighed against each other. The hearing evidence in this case is not clear, but shows different emphasis on different arguments and thus different conclusions. According to such an overall assessment, of the two alternative Busund corridor and the Åsa corridor, the Åsa corridor is the best. We will also show that when the decision on the Ringeriksbana was made for approx. 10 years ago, it was considered that the project should not delay priority investments on, for example: Eastfoldbana and Westfoldbana. This should continue to be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1467	First of all, there might be reason to reflect for a few seconds that the setting is based on St.prp. No 66, for 2001-2002, which is about Ringeriksbanen etc. In the case of ‘m.m.’ there was a narrow gap in cap.10 that brought considerable political tension into this room, and I doubt that we reach the same heights today. So this is just about choosing a trasé corridor for the Ringerix track, and those who are trying to bring in a tempo debate for the Bergensbanen abbreviation, are actually not getting there with that line in this setting. History shows that the level of ambition of the Storting in 1992 was significantly higher than today’s situation suggests. At the time, the start was estimated to be in the period 1994-1997. The NSB was given the planning task, and it was actually a formidable challenge. In reality, size has some difficulty in choosing between the two crystallised options: the Kroksund option and the Åsa option. This option has also appeared as a real dilemma for the government party, which finally joined the Åsa option. In terms of adverse reactions, this was the least of two subpoints, not least from an environmental point of view, and the environment is the dominant theme of this argument. In fact, the Åsa option represents an additional cost of an estimated 700 million. kr. This option also does not add anything to the short-term debate plus compared to the Kroksund option. The difference is only in a few minutes in travel time. Nor is the Åsa option generating the largest growth on the Sandvika–Hønefoss local route. This brings the project over the Åsa option to a cost-benefit of 0.8 against l,0 for the Kroksund option. The market share of close traffic is currently, on the basis of the traffic census, virtually zero for train journeys. I6 pst. by travellers using buses, and 84 pst. of which travel by car. Traffic calculations suggest that with the new Ringerix Railway, even private cars will be reduced by only l pst., from 84 pst. to 83 pst. The number of local train travellers will increase to l0 and 12 pst. for Åsa and Kroksund respectively, and this is done at the expense of the bus travellers, who will fall from 16 pst. to 6-7 pst. In addition to the cost level, which is significant, there is the cost difference of 700 million and the different emphasis on significant environmental challenges related to each option that is most focused on this dilemma, the trajectory choice for the Ringerix Railway. In the case of cultural memories, it is shown that the Hole Municipality has traces of human activity back to the younger Stone Age and Bronze Age. A path over Kroksund will pass through the central parts of the plains of the Ring Kingdom, which many people have entered here, and although the selected line has been somewhat withdrawn in relation to the culturally most sensitive areas, it will still come in areas with great potential for the discovery of ancient memories under cultivated land. There is also a conflict here with automatically peaceful cultural memories in forests. In the case of the natural environment, it may be pointed out that the Kroksund option concerns nature reserves and wet land systems. An important reason for not choosing the Kroksund option is precisely that Norway’s obligations under the Ramsar Convention cannot be fulfilled. It should also be mentioned that the Kroksund option, which goes to the greatest extent today, in addition to splitting the cultural landscape both functionally and visually, will capture far more than twice the total agricultural area in relation to Åsa. It's actually about a twelve hundred dean for the Kroksund option. Anyway, it's a problem whose large area is tied over a long period of time. Therefore, through today’s decision, the Storting will release the one investigated route for other purposes, and that is in itself an advantage for the landowners, residents and municipalities concerned. It will therefore be my task to recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1486	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1489	I'm almost touched by tears, I, over the Right's environmental exposure just in this case, well dressed in that they're in lack of railway policy. The right has shown over the years that they have been involved in cutting on the railway, and the bet this year is at best the price increase plus the bet on the collective part of public purchasing. And the question is, is Right's railway kingdom just the commuter Gardermoen-Ski-Asker? Or does the Right mean the same thing as the Labour Party, that we must take care of the investments that we have made, and rust up and renew, as the EU and Europe do otherwise? Starvation of the Railway Station is the reality today. When will Right have the backbone of choosing away, dropping down, the non-rewarding sections? Then the triangle Ski-Gardermoen-Asker would disappear, while my mountain track would pass. Long-rangers don't have public purchases. It's intercity and local train pulling that pot. Based on all the information currently provided by the representative, Mr Hoddevik, I would like to remind you that there are more than 3,000 daily commuters from the Ringerix region today. It is expected that there will be more separation, not least if we are to take seriously the signals given by the sitting government, that the increasing contraction of the Oslo region should be placed in this area. It would be interesting to right what kind of view Mr. Hoddevik has on my sketch of what is Right's railway policy. Is it local traffic that costs, or can we, as a little bit more peripheral, make it possible to have a bulging transport, which is already there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1500	I'm afraid that the representative, Sigrun Eng, in the change of line will succeed in making this a budget debate, or part of the national transport plan in terms of progress and investment in the railway sector. This is and shall be a debate on a difficult trajectory on the Ringerix track, and it is obvious that we are all in a difficult dilemma. Here there are different considerations that need to be weighed against each other. Cost level and intervention are important elements of those assessments. Our ambition has been to put behind us one trajectory and at least get to do that part of the job, so that the area that is being chosen away can be used as an alternative. We have nothing else to be ashamed of when it comes to an honest priority between rail and other important purposes in the transport sector. I am referring to the fact that the railway sector can hardly be treated with a vote, rather in the budget that we have behind us, when we take into account the tough priorities that a tight budget requires. We will also meet in future debates on the priority of the different sections in terms of realisation. Today, however, the government parties have chosen to stick quite concretely to the trasé elections that are the case, alongside the GSM orientation that has had different revolutions in other settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1514	The representative of Hoddevik is quite right that this is not about the pace or priority of the Ringeriksbanen. We're going to come back to that when we're going to debate the national transport plan, where we're going to balance the different routes and decide what we should give priority to first, and what we should give last priority to. Like Mr. Hoddevik, I am pleased that we have managed to make a trasé choice. Now we know what we're going to work hard to get a higher priority than it has today. I think it was an element of retrospective clarity – if I may call it that – in the posts of the representative Hoddevik. At the same time, it was somewhat sad when he could say that when one reads the debate on the Ringerix Railway, which was ten years ago, the Stortinget appears to be more railway-interested and taken up than the Stortinget appears today. It is something that the sitting government and all the governments that have been sitting for the last two years should be able to take inwards. I would like to ask Mr. Hoddevik: Does he himself think it is a cross of thought that ten years ago the Stortinget was more concerned with the most environmentally friendly form of transport we have than we are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1525	I waited with the pen to find the conflicts, but ended up writing little on my block. However, I will try to answer the question that came at the end of this row. What did the Stortinge mean, in essence, in the debate on the 1994-97 programming period? Well, what's in the record, it's obviously meant. If they were more railway friendly than we are today, it's a little hard to say. Realism may be part of the assessment we're also going to focus on. In my post, I tried at least to focus on an honest approach to the proposition that is constantly about progress and priorities. I would like to see – in isolation, from the point of view of the Committee on Transport – that we could put ourselves at a higher level of ambition in terms of both rail and, in fact, other sectors that are just as close to me. However, based on today's debate, I choose to carefully consider the matter that exists. I am so happy to be with SV in some factual assessments of the dilemmas we are in, in this trajectory.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1534	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1537	The party notes that the total passenger transport between Oslo and Bergen via Hönefoss is very small. Overall, passenger traffic along routes such as Oslo-Trondheim, Oslo-Kristiansand-Stavanger and Oslo-Svinesund/Corn Sea is of greater importance because there are a number of small and medium-sized cities along the route. This is not the case between Bergen and Voss and Oslo-Hønefoss. The route as a means of transport along the whole Oslo–Bergen route could under favourable circumstances be increased by a few hundred road users per. day, and therefore never become sufficient to defend high-speed rail investments. Passenger traffic between Bergen and Oslo is only approx. 5 000 people per year daily, of which almost 4000 travels by air between Gardermoen and Flesland. Railway as a means of transport for travellers to complete the route between Oslo and Bergen is approximately 500 journeys per day. day(s) An optimistic estimate is a doubling of this to approx. 1000 journeys if the route is modernised substantially or if a new track is built in a new line. The traffic on the route between Hönefoss and Oslo is slightly larger, approx. 20 000 passenger trips together for rail, bus and car. Of this it is only approx. 1500 travelling by train. Of the total traffic of 20,000 people, it is likely that 5,000 people travel all the way from Oslo to Hønefoss or vice versa. This is very modest compared to other transport routes. There is too little traffic base to defend investment in modern railway facilities, because market opportunities are in any case very small. In the proposition, the Ministry itself has estimated the increase to be approximately. 1,200 travels daily. The progress party indicates that there must in any case be a strong road between Oslo and Hønefoss, and will therefore give priority to E16 on the route rather than railway investment. The investments are estimated at DKK 3.5 billion for the line over Kroksund, and DKK 4.2 billion for the line over Åsa. Such calculations are experientially very inaccurate. So we're afraid that the final sum could be between 6 and 8 billion dollars. The capital expenditure, based on 7 pst. interest, will run up to approx. 500 million. kr annually, or approx. 700 kroner per year. passenger based on current traffic, which is approx. 2000 passengers per day(s) When the operating costs and the costs of rolling stock are added, it goes without saying that the cost per passengers can get up to an amount of well over NOK 1000 without further delay. per 1 % travel. The party of progress perceives that the government is really not proposing to build the Ringeriksbanen, which we agree with the Government. Therefore, we believe that it is more reasonable not to take a decision on the two existing trasé options and rather to finish the work on the new railway. The Progress Party is concerned that a choice of trasé will create expectations among those who want a new path built and that the trasé choice of a path that is not to be built is unnecessary. Another good side effect of completing the project now is that it is not possible to link these areas this year to something that is not realized in any case. We therefore propose that ‘The work on a new line between Sandvika and Hønefoss be completed’. I have put forward our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1557	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1562	The representative from the government party said instead that it was an honest wish that this should be a debate on a trasé election, and the representative from the Progress Party says very clearly that they are some with the government that the Ringeriksbanen should not be built. Who is honest, and who says it they really mean? That's what I think I'm talking about. I think the idea is whether or not to select the most expensive route here is that it is not built. So I want to praise the Progress Party at least because they say what they mean, even if I'm completely disagreed with them – let's just say that! Building railway is expensive in this country. When you read the comments of the Progress Party, there are basically too few people in this country to build the railroad! But it's now one time that there's only 4.2 million people here, and they're a little bit scattered around. Bergensbana has ours and is important for the people who live both in Bergen and on Voss and along the course. Now, when you're talking about the number of people commuting from the Ringerix area, that's a big number. But, says the Progress Party, this does not defend the investments. They're talking about how much road you're going to build in the area to transport these people between regions, for example. from the Oslo Ringery Area. Now neither does Kenneth Svendsen know how much investment a four-field motorway will require, but is this the hold of the Progress Party in the future as well? Can we expect that the will to invest on the railway and maintain the infrastructure that lies here will not exist at the Progress Party because there are too few people? It is sad, I think, to note, but that is my question: Is this the Progress Party I believe?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1571	It's always nice to boast and to be commended for being honest and saying it the way it is. Now I don't think the boast from the Workers' Party was an invitation to government cooperation, which we hoped for when we got boasts from the other parties. But boasting is always nice to get. So to bet on the railway in the years ahead. We have invested heavily in road construction in our alternative state budget, and road construction to Bergen is also very important to us. In our alternative state budget, we spend over 5 billion more on road construction. The simple reason is that the road is a more flexible solution. It reaches many more people, and it is no more than fair and fair that the drivers who have paid approx. 40 billion kroner in car-related charges, gets something left. A fraction of this, approx. DKr 12 billion, the Government in its budget proposal now adopted, is taking steps towards this, while the Progress Party is putting in approx. 16 billion kroner to build the road. Road is a much better alternative. It reaches business much better, and after traveling around and listening to what the business community in District Norway and also in Bergen and the areas that want, is the first commandment: More road, more road! There is no unanimous demand for more rail in these areas. The Progress Party has chosen to listen to the population and to the business community and to give them what they want, that is, more way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1580	A week ago, we had the Ministry of Transport budget up for debate in the Chamber. Then we found out that the Progress Party will bring down the Nordlandsbahn. I wonder if we'll get another news today. The comments written by the Progress Party in this setting about the Ringeriksbanen have only a natural conclusion: The Bergensbanen is not life-created – neither as it is now, nor with the Ringeriksbanen. If Kenneth Svendsen is so busy being honest with the people most, and if he's actually going to have all the billions he has in his alternative state budget, he gets to take the consequences of it and come up here and say that the only sensible thing is to put down the Bergensbanen. That, in any case, would have been the consequence of the Progress Party's policy. It is a good thing that, sometimes – if not every day, but at least occasionally – you will see some of the backside of the Medal of the Advance Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1587	It's quick to get a little surprised in this room. I was just in the pulpit and proud of the Workers' Party, because they boasted of the Advancement Party that we were so very honest. Now the representative Sørensen has been up here and said the exact opposite, that we might not be quite so honest anyway. Then she brought the news that the Progress Party is going to put down the Nordlandsban. If we said something about it in the transport budget, there is no news today. Then it was in case of news when we dealt with the transport budget. Of course, that's no news. There is enough SV who have a small wish to make some assessments and therefore draw a conclusion. That conclusion is that the Nordlandsbanen and Bergensbanen are to be closed. The Progress Party has not said anything about this. On the other hand, we have said something about what we want to bet on in the future. We do that based on the fact that Norway is a scattered area. Railways travel on a distance between two points with little possibility of swinging away, for natural reasons. As I said before, we've been listening to business, and we've been listening to the people. The population wants more money to go, because then they get easier from home. It goes as well-known very little railroads into the doors of people. That is why we have said that we want to bet on the way. It's more natural to use the road. It is better organised and easier to use by the population. As I said, in the years to come, we are going to give more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1596	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1599	When Bergensbanen was built, it cost two state budgets. It was at the time you had visions and willingness to build the country, but it was also before you invented what is called diet-benefit analysis. If the food-benefit analysis had been invented 150 years ago, it could perhaps be concluded that the country had not been built. It would simply not have been profitable enough to build the country. The cost-benefit analysis of routes is difficult. The track we built almost 150 years ago to Bergen was well paid down for approx. 130 years ago, and that we still benefit from that capital, it's hard to see through dietary calculations. The Ringerix track is for my part about nothing less than actually trying to think a little visionary. I have come to the conclusion that the Ringerix Railway, even with the most expensive option, does not account for as much as one percent of today's state budget. It sounds like something difficult to do, even considering that it would be an infrastructure which, hopefully, would also be located for at least 150 years. At the same time, I would say that I am very pleased that a majority today is in favour of a trasé elections on the Ringeriksbanen. It wasn't obvious. When Stortinget had this case dealt with by the previous crossroads, it was not possible to make a decision on the crossroads because it was too difficult, and the case was sent back for further investigations. It is true that, as the rapporteur says, this matter has been well investigated, and that has been done by Stortinget, because it has been so difficult, especially because there are so large environmental values associated with the area. My assessment is that the government has conducted a good discussion and has fallen to a good point of view when you have chosen Åsa-traseen for the Ringeriksbanen. It has been referred to a horse trade that at least the former representatives Myrvoll, Opseth and Rønbeck were involved in their time. In the case of that horse trade, it must be said that the Laerdal Tunnel is built. We're now discussing the trasé choice for the Ringerix track, and we're not going to create any more evil blood and rip up old wounds. The Committee has received a letter today from the Forum Nye Bergensbanen. They're not angry at the Trasé Committee. On the other hand, they're furious because we're not getting ahead of the project. For my part, it's important to notice that. The enthusiasts behind this sat during the hearing here in the building and underlined that it was not the trasé choice that was important to them, but that it was continued in the project. And the fact that we've managed to make a decision on trasé choices is a very necessary prerequisite for continuing to work on getting ahead of the project. We have not been able to fulfil what the New Bergensbanen Forum will, namely get some obligating statements that we will get ahead in the Ringeriksbanen. I would have liked the committee to have a government fraction with a much larger heart for the railroad than the case. At the same time, I cannot leave the lack of a beating heart for the railways in the government fraction of the Committee on Transport is crucial for a trajectory. I'm going to have to go in and see what are the real arguments for and against, and what trasé choices make it most likely that the most likely jobs are to make this a project that's being realized. The difference in travel time between the two trasé elections has been the subject of debate. In the last round, it was 10 minutes. That's a big difference. In this round, with the new plans, the difference in travel time is 2 minutes. So the Åsa option takes you two minutes more from Bergen to Oslo than you do over Kroksund. I can't let it be crucial to choose the otherwise most environmentally destructive option. It is fundamentally sensible – and we must insist – to realize a project that shortens the journey time on Bergensbanen by almost an hour. The environmental values of Ringrike are high. This way, it's very complicated almost no matter what you're going to do, because it almost pop up protective nature reserves, cultural memories, etc. At the same time, it imposes a special responsibility on us to be kind when we plan projects in such an area. What has been most burdensome for SV's position has been that the area is included in something called the North Tyriford wetland area. It has international protection status through the so-called Ramsar Convention for the Protection of Wetlands. Through many years of work in the environment movement, I know that it is not always as easy to get an understanding of the significance of these wetlands. While we have protected the buckets and buckets of snowbergs in national parks in Norway, we have been very poor to care for the areas that have the most plant and animal species, namely our wetlands. Very few of them again we have managed to take care of. When you've been out fighting for some wetland area, it happens that you meet some old friends who might say yes, we understand that we're going to take care of these foxes, for example, but what are we going to do with this swamp? That's when I have to say that this swamp is really important. It disappears at least a hundred species of plants and animals every day from the surface of the earth, and they disappear because their habitats are being destroyed. Wetlands are some of the most important areas of life we have to take care of if we mean anything by protecting species diversity, protecting plant and animal species. Especially are birds happy in the wetlands, because that's where they find food. In Northern Tyrifjorden wetlands there are birds that find food, birds that fly from Jutland on their way to Svalbard to nest. They have an intermediate landing area there. Shortbread is one of them. So would anyone say, well, can't that fly somewhere else to eat? Still if everyone had thought so, that it would fly somewhere else and eat? That's how plant and animal species are eradicated. The Ramsar Convention operates in such a way that countries report areas, and it is the systems as those that receive international protection. In many ways, the Ramsar Convention works in the same way as the UNICEF list of cultural heritage memories. There are areas we should be especially proud of, especially careful with and especially concerned with. The Northern Tyrifland wetlands area is such an area we'll be especially proud of and especially careful with. An overall assessment of the environmental impact has led us to fall on the Åsa option. We feel safe about that choice, even when an overall environmental movement has done the same thing. We have received letters from Nature and Youth, from the Federation of Nature Conservation, from the Association of Tourists, from the Association of Norwegian Hunters and Fishermen, from the World Natural Fund, etc., which has all drawn exactly the same conclusion. We are proud to have managed to grasp this trajectory, and we promise to use all the forces we have to work to make the Ringerix track a reality. I think we've chosen the line that makes us have most people working with us for it. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that SV is left alone in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1629	Heidi Sørensen has addressed the proposal to which she referred. The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is over. The President, however, suggests that we finish the line change after this post, and hopes that the hall will be able to agree to it. It'll be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1636	In 1992, a historic compromise was reached that could secure a ring rail and lay a foundation for the future of the Bergensbanen. In this historic compromise SV was active with. Today we write 2002. SV is actively involved in ensuring that the Ringerix course is history. It'll be an idea. But they're trying to spice with some music and other nice things. What you don't make sure is money. There's no exact plan, but there's an idea, and you have to live on this good idea. That is regrettable, because this is an important project for Bergensbanen and an important project for the Oslo region. With the Busund option, and with an active willingness to solve this, we had set up a comprehensive transport plan of great importance for the area. So SV has been saying no to this. SVs in the affected area say something else. So the SV on Stortinget has chosen a different position than the SV on the local level. I have great respect for many of the arguments, and they have also meant a lot to us in terms of environmental and nature protection, but I cannot take inwards the Secretariat of the Ramsar Convention as a kind of theological temple, where truth is established. I have to somehow use my head in this as well. There is obviously not a will of SV to do something about it. My question to SV is: How about credibility in terms of public transport after this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1645	That was violent! Let me remind you of the agreement that Opseth, Rønbeck and Myrvoll stood for. There was nothing – not one word – in the agreement that that path would plow through protective wetlands. It didn't say anything about it. What it said, on the other hand, was to start in the 1994-1997 planning period. In the ten years that have passed, the Labour Party has had the Minister of Transport in seven of them. In seven of those years, the Labour Party has notorily broken that compromise. And then you're going to hear a force-salve from the same party -- when we finally manage to make a trasé choice that you can go for -- that we, of all those who have made sure that Opseth has got his Laerdal tunnel, which opened two years ago, are going to be some lifting breakers in this context. It falls on its own unreasonableness. So to the seriousness of this. We promise to work for the Ringerix Railway every day. I am a little uncertain about the signals from the Workers' Party, but I am happy that we – remember – stand together in this setting to work for the Ringeriksbanen. I hope that is something the Workers' Party does not go away, and I am happy if it is confirmed. Because we're busy getting this path built. And if it's true that we're talking about credibility in relation to public transport, I think it's being tested on whether the track is being built or not, it's going to be tested on who's willing to open up money for it – when we get the debate that comes with the national transport plan – and it's going to be tested on who's willing to prioritize it. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1652	My historical knowledge tells me that when Bergensbanen was built, he costs one government budget. It was before the cost-benefit was invented. So I have a little bit of feedback. I had the main post from the Labour Party and I didn't say one word about the time use and the difference there, just so it's clear at least. Otherwise, I actually thought that the post that was kept by the representative Sørensen was very visionary. That was typical SV. Perhaps ‘environmental romantic’ is the right word. But if we stick our finger in the ground, does the representative really believe that this is ever realized? So I looked at the national red list, with this card bear. She's not named. Ergo is not a trusted species; she is more likely to count, I believe. My specific question concerns this Ramsar Convention. When one says that one is interested in protecting all wetlands around the city of Hønefoss – Sokna, Begna and Storelva, which surrounds the city on all sides – what kind of development will there be in that city? Is this town supposed to be a bird town? Or what's the actual idea? We must, of course, be able to develop and have something to live on in this country. I have to hand it over to my heart to say that I have problems in my own party – and now I am talking to myself, but I think it's true – to defend that the kilo price of swans is 700 million. kr if it should go with some if the Busund option was selected, when SV is now betting on the most expensive option. I don't think it's going to be that easy to get a multiple for that re-priority there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1671	The president has also heard about bird mountains, but "bird town" was new.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1674	That a city like Henefoss would become a bird town – what would have been more natural than that? I have also recorded that the Ramsar Convention wants larger areas around Honey Foss to be protected. I'm glad, because many of the natural values in the area are today just outside the small reserves you have there. What surprises me then, and which is a little strange, is that every time it's about an area getting a special status, it's going to be a threat to development instead of a fantastic opportunity. But think so well! There is an international secretariat that seems that our area is so important and beautiful and good and has such a motivating life that it is to receive international recognition for it! In many places, there is a basis for local economic development, tourism and pride, which help to create new opportunities for an area. I am pleased that the representative Eng thinks that my post was visionary. I promise that there will be SV's posts in the future as well. But that's also the only realistic, that's what's putting your finger in the ground and saying: we have to make an alternative, a trasé choice that makes this path build, and that makes us have the most friends on our side in the fight to get it built – and it's a decision on the trasé choice we're going to make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17.ana.ud1638e1683	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The morning meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
