ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e76	The representatives of Thore A. Nistad, Gunhild Eyeyang and Michael Momyr, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e90	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e95	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e100	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e108	The President will say in an optimistic moment that we will at best be done around noon. 01 at night, so that the representatives are prepared for it. It's possible it'll be later!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e122	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e133	The agricultural agreement is important, especially for agriculture, but also has a major impact on the country in general. First, I would like to say very much that there was an agreement between the State and the Norwegian Confederation in the negotiations this spring. I want to give tribute to the Farmers' Team, which has conducted the negotiations constructively on behalf of agriculture. Although the organisation did not meet all its requirements, the Farmers' Team is behind the agreement, has recommended it for its members and will in a positive way try to develop agriculture on this basis. I would like to stress that a broad majority in Stortinget supports the negotiated agricultural agreement. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the representatives of the Trade Committee for their good cooperation on the negotiated agricultural agreement and the comments submitted by the Committee on this agreement. All non-Progressionary parties support this agreement. I am so free that I say that I read in a newspaper interview that the Progress Party stated in advance that they considered to subsidize the contract, but I find that this has not been done in the final setting. The fact that a very broad majority in the UK support the agricultural agreement is very important for agriculture. This allows agriculture to meet with greater care in the future. As spokesman for the case, I am pleased that the support given by agriculture in the population is also reflected in a broad majority here in the Stortinget. For agriculture, there will be solid assets. Another starting point for agriculture in the future is that we have a market balance in most domestic productions now. This has caused responsible and solid work by the industry, which has adapted its level of production to demand in Norway, and to a certain need for exports. Against this background, it is realistic to believe that agriculture can take out the target prices in the coming year of the agreement. There is reason to stress that it is a long time since agriculture has had such a good starting point. It is also important that agriculture, as a market regulator, takes care of the balance between production and demand. Prices of agricultural products to producers have remained still or have declined for many years. Therefore, it is a pleasure that one with the data this year has found to take out 475 million. kr i increase in the target prices. This is approx. 3 pst. For agriculture, it is important that a greater proportion of the data can be obtained at higher prices in the market. This may include: through the halving of VAT applied last year. This reduction in VAT has led to cheaper prices for groceries in Norway, and an average consumer in Norway is now using approx. 11 pst. of their income on food. The price rise of agricultural products is calculated to be 3 pst. on the basis of the price increase from 1 July. In the negotiations, one has tried to shield the food industry from a price increase by compensating for the increase in the target prices. The second element of the agricultural agreement is income tax relief for agriculture. In the past, there have been 36 000 kroner in income deductions for all farmers who have had an income in addition to this. This is now the ratio of tax deductions to extras with an annual effect of approx. 300 million. kr for agriculture. A progressive income deduction increased to a level of income of NOK 155 000 will be introduced with effect from 1 July of this year. Taxes are important for several reasons. This is a long-term tool that provides safe framework conditions. At the same time, it encourages the individual farmer to make the greatest possible profit from his activity and to make the most of the good peasants, so in sum, the net income will increase for the peasants. Although there is a certain move or reduction in the country’s agricultural transfers, the income growth for the coming contract year will be about. NOK 10,700 per year. annual or, as a percentage, 7 pst. Against this background, I hope that agriculture will see that the time has come to focus heavily on its primary tasks, to promote good agriculture with satisfactory economic results and the production of safe and good quality agricultural products, and to have a keen eye to develop and make the cultural landscape more beautiful, to delight the whole population. I note that agriculture has been offensive and has been closed down in several of its environmental efforts. Among other things, one can now measure that the flow of nitrogen relative to the level in 1985 has been reduced by 25 pst. At the same time, we have achieved a reduction of 32 pst. in phosphorus run-off relative to 1985. The same developments can be traced when it comes to the use of spray protection. It is gratifying to achieve a recordable improvement in key environmental efforts achieved through an interaction between industry and the country. Agriculture does not need to be equally concerned about fighting for transfers in order to secure the future, in my opinion. This year’s resolution shows that the industry is new to a great deal of recognition and understanding of its particular circumstances, and that it is political will to follow up the industry with satisfactory framework conditions that can ensure future nutrition and secure recruitment. It is important for the profile, both for the Farm and for agriculture in general, that the industry has its main focus on the development of this important industry and does not get too negative a profile in relation to these agricultural decisions, where one tries to underline the difficult framework conditions under which this industry is subject to. In the Sem Declaration, the Cooperative Government Party stated that we want to create a new gift in agriculture. As a representative of the government party, I hope that the starting point of this year's agricultural policy can be a useful basis for creating a new optimism and a security for the future of this industry. Of course, there are also challenges for agriculture. In the same way as the export industry, agriculture is framed by living in a high-cost country, where prices and wages are very high in relation to other countries, at the same time as the foreign price level that has been established in countries with lower wages and prices, to a certain extent is normalising the Norwegian expectations of the prices of agricultural products. Our agricultural products will always be measured against foreign corresponding goods. In this context, it is appropriate to develop an extended loan scheme with interest rate support negotiated by the parties up to the year’s level of EUR 300 million. kr in five years, i.e. $1.5 billion in total. This investment development package shall enable agriculture to be more offensively able to meet the future with a custom operating appliance. Agriculture has been given an important objective of implementing 10 pst. of production according to the ecological principle by 2010. This means that, in particular, the industry, but also the public, should focus on information, encouragement and nutrition facilitation, so that this goal can be achieved in a realistic way by 2010. Otherwise, the industry must always be busy delivering organic products in a pact with an expected increase in demand. Organic production is an excellent place in Norway. We already have a good food security profile, and I am interested to note that the idea of organic production is getting wider footholds, also in the most central agricultural areas of the country. In the negotiated agreement, there are also some changes to the agricultural framework. Among other things, the ceiling for milk quotas has been raised, the rules for co-operation have been liberalised, and a free marketable milk quota of 30 pst has been introduced. At the same time as the 400-decker production premium was granted, this represents in the first row new possibilities for the industry. These changes are meant to smooth out the guidelines that the industry is subject to. I have argued that the parties are closely involved in the effects of these, taking them into account in future agricultural agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e170	On behalf of the majority of the rapporteur, the pen has commented on the extension of the agricultural deduction. It was introduced a few years ago with the intention of trying to limit price developments for primary producers and was a kind of compensation scheme. So now this arrangement is expanding. The Progress Party has always been strongly opposed, because it means discrimination between self-employed people in the food production industry and in other sectors which are much more competitive and which are also in the districts and which have to pay the extra costs of DKK 12 billion for agriculture above the tax bill – a distortion of competition in dimensions that we cannot be in. In addition, we know that the majority of farmers in Norway are so-called hobby farmers or part-time farmers. The fact that they are now granted exclusive rights under special deduction schemes means that today's agricultural structure is cemented more than is necessary and prevents natural development towards larger and more flexible sizes of farming. But then there is also a problem: in some peripheral municipalities, the farmers are perhaps 15-20 pst. of the tax collectors. Now that they have very favourable tax arrangements, how does the case-rapporteur think that these municipalities should be able to have a reasonable level of service to the inhabitants of the municipality in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e179	I wish to fix a bug in the configuration first. In Chapter 6.2 of the third paragraph, not only SV and the Central Party shall be excluded, but also the Progress Party shall exit from that note. So the question of a tax evasion in the primary municipalities. I would first like to distance myself from the involvement of the representative Hedstrøm, that a majority of Norwegian farmers are hobby farmers. I want to use the term'responsive time users'. For Norway, it is important that we use the agricultural land we have, and we are pleased that many will use the labour force to keep the country in claim and make the cultural landscape more beautiful for the smooth population and not least for tourists. Therefore, it is vital that we have this structure with a mix of full-time and part-time users. I think the tax agent is positive, and I actually believed that the Progress Party initially thought it was a good idea to give the industry a certain advantage when it owes taxes, precisely because we have an industry that is very exposed to international prices. Instead of using target prices higher than in Europe, one replaces this by giving tax relief. When it applies to the influence of the individual municipality, I would suggest that the government will follow it up and see if there might be any unfortunate ringing effects of this. Now we have a good paycheck right behind us, so I guess there's going to be a solid increase in tax inputs at all, at least in the short term. This is an effect that we must have a certain amount of attention to, but I think it is a brilliant tool that the parties have jointly found.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e190	Seven uses are reported in Norway each day. With the agricultural settlement of the year, many of us fear that there will be even more use per year. today than seven, as today. My question to the rapporteur-in-Office is therefore: Does the rapporteur see an end to this? How much use are we going to have in Norway if you look a few years ahead in time – that is, to the so-called end station? My other question is related to the company form/ownership form. We know that the Christian People's Party has previously been opposed to a company as a form of company in agriculture, while one is now in favour. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party has turned around and has a different position now than it had before?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e197	I note that agriculture has suffered a very rapid decline in terms of its use. However, what is pleasing in this picture is that the total agricultural area does not seem to have the same reduction. What has happened is that agriculture has now adapted to slightly larger units. I hope and believe that this reduction in agriculture, when it comes to the number of uses, is flattening out, and that this year's result will contribute to this. There are also parts of the answer to the second question from Ryan. In fact, I feel that changing the form of a company can be an opportunity for agriculture, especially the small units, to survive in an inspiring way. I think, for example, that interaction and AS form can be reasonable in this context. When more people go together – and the forms of co-operation are growing rapidly, and I believe that this can be a good tool for small uses – they can turn their resources together and don't have to invest twice in buildings and equipment, they get a better social community, they can make better use of capital, and they get a more organized leisure time. This is an example of measures that respond to the changes in time, so that the agricultural population can have a good business life that is somewhat in line with business or business. Fortunately, we see that the well-being of agriculture is very great. The thing that hangs here too many is the income. Many find themselves – as the representative Hedstrom was involved in – alternative work and employment tasks to compensate for the lack of income levels in agriculture. It shows that this is a constructive industry that will meet in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e206	In relation to the last reply, it must be noted that neither co-operation nor cooperation is dependent on the introduction of passive ownership through an AS organisation. It is well possible to combine cooperation and co-operation with continuing to have the personal and responsible ownership of agriculture. The Christian People's Party has been associated with the Centre Party in many matters of agricultural policy. That's why I was a little surprised at the offer made by the state in ours, and at the fact that the Christian People's Party could stand behind it. Now it has changed slightly in relation to the negotiations. However, what is striking in relation to the agricultural settlement of the year is that the framework is not the major issue, but what will result from structural changes and changes in the future. That's what's going to be the hardest thing to do, and that's a source of concern. These include both changes in the concession limit, maximum quotas, the flare of the structural profile of the area grant and the increase in the peak cut-off in case of co-operation, which one has received, in addition to the possibility of AS organisation. But what is really new is the introduction of a'milk exchange', which we also take note of. There's a whole new principle that there's reason to be very aware of. This may lead to major changes in the structure of the most important agricultural area. That's why it's important to look at how the system works. Then my question becomes to the case rapporteur: What is the reason why the Christian People's Party cannot participate on a proposal to evaluate this system until the 2005 negotiations? And if so, will the Christian People's Party, sail if they do not support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, be willing to assess this before the negotiations in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e215	We appreciate the Centre Party's strong support for agriculture and believe it is very positive – it is noticed. When it relates to passive ownership, we won't get such a situation. The concession law continues to operate on the premises of the participants in the various forms of ownership. But when it comes to the original supply from the state, it was claimed by the state – and we see no reason to doubt it – that it was somewhat in line with the final result last year. Then one also got an agreement, but we all know that in negotiations there is a development, and the end result we have now reached is actually quite calm about, not to say satisfaction. I have received many positive feedback from organisations and individuals who thank the Government, individuals and individual parties for their support for the negotiated result, which I acknowledge. Some incentives have been used in this agricultural agreement that are exciting. They're new, and they also represent some uncertain things. this with a free marketable 30 pst milk quota, which was the result. Why do we not want to be in favour of an evaluation by 2005? That's because in the period we don't want to bind us, for example. in the event of obvious adverse reactions. If, within this scheme, it turns out that there are unfortunate sides, e.g. there may be too much pricing, there may be a wrong group that gets the quotas, and we would like small usage to buy the majority to build up, or other things, you have to be able to adjust such a scheme on the way. If you agree with the proposal referred to by the representative Arnstad, you will be deprived of the possibility of correcting such open-ended errors that may result in a new regime, which is supposed to be a positive contribution to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e228	For the Workers' Party, there have been two important aspects to the treatment of the agricultural settlement of the year: firstly, to maintain the agreement that was negotiated when we in Stortinget dealt with St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 on Norwegian agriculture and food production, as well as respecting a negotiated agreement, even if it is with only one agricultural organisation. The settlement entered into at Innst. S. No 167 for 1999-2000, was concluded by the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. There was a clear distinction between the Right and the Advance Party. Although an agreement has now been reached while the Right is in government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have, in my opinion, prevented the worst turn to the Right. So much praise do I think they should have. Asking why, my interpretation is quite clear: after the Bondevik II government has conducted a miserable district policy – among other things. with large cuts in the SND, and they have not filled the municipal food funds – neither the Prime Minister nor the Christian People's Party had as much to wear in terms of the regional economy as agriculture is. On the other hand, I am absolutely sure that it was necessary to negotiate an agreement. I see that the leader of the Norwegian Bond Team, Kirsten Injerd Værdal, says in the media that there have been very difficult negotiations – so commend that party for the agreement as well. For the state’s opening offer was to be decided here in Stortinget, with the support of the Advance Party, there would be no good development for Norwegian agriculture. It is also confirmed by the comments of the Progress Party at the Innst. S. No 250 for 2001-2002, which we are dealing with today. We in the Workers' Party therefore take note of the agreement and will not touch on the details of it, even if we disagree on some points. Respect for a concluded agreement and the negotiating institute means that the Workers' Party is involved in forming the majority of the overall position. But we have said in a joint note with the Central Party and the Socialist Left that it can't be just the Storting that should respect concluded agreements. That's what the government should do. That is why we regret that, with the support of the Advance Party, the Government cut 300 million. in the framework of the agricultural agreement with the budget for the current year. This reinforces the security and predictability of the negotiating institution. According to the views of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the cut was very unfortunate. For us in the Workers' Party, agriculture, forestry and fishing in parts of the country are crucial for work, housing, business development and management of cultural landscapes. That is why we want to assume that we are going to have a viable and sustainable agriculture. We also have to stick to the fact that there is going to be a lot of focus on that with safe food. It may be easy to say that of course we have safe food and food security here in the country. But it doesn't come of itself, and we are reminded in the press daily that to visit other countries as tourists this summer, one must be aware that there are major outbreaks, among other things. of Salmonella in some places. That's not how we get this in Norway. We have to profile ourselves with our food and food culture. We can do that much more strongly than we do today. The tourist industry needs to link nature, cultural landscapes and our food tradition in the experiences that are sought after by the tourists. I have seen that the Hurtigruta has pointed this out. Our long country is great, not least because it lives people everywhere. I see in this way in LO Current that both the LO and the National Association of Travel Companies are dissatisfied with the government's investment in travel life. Both organisations strongly regret that Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen closed the Travel Forum, which was established by former Minister of Industry Grete Knudsen. The Travel Forum was to be a meeting place for organisations in the industry and department/government to promote the tourism industry, following the model of the Maritime Forum. ‘The establishment of the Travel Life Forum was a victory. Now we could finally be in the process of influencing and developing visions and goals for the industry,» says Jens-Petter Hagen, who is a travel life consultant at LO Service. The working party believes this was an important and proper initiative, also from the agricultural side. We are convinced that tourism and agriculture have much more in common than we can today get the impression. In the vote, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, have a common note on the challenges facing the WTO. We see that there is a need for a separate agricultural agreement that provides the basis for decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use. We also point out that it must be possible to maintain an agricultural sector, under difficult climatic conditions, which takes care of rural areas, the protection of cultural landscapes and biodiversity considerations. In Norway we have approx. 3.5 pst. of our area cultivated. We and others should be aware of how important it is to us that it is housing and food cultivation, and not reclaimed settlements we are going to have in the future. But it doesn't help much what we think about the general importance of agriculture, if those who work in the industry don't have an economic outcome that makes them want to continue. This also affects whether new generations will drive farms further. In Sweden, there is now a trend in increased and larger imports, among other things. pig, because there are no pig producers who will maintain the necessary production. We're now balanced in milk, but here too, we can come into a situation in line with Sweden's, if our young people don't see fit to produce milk in the future. In particular, young people will consider income opportunities in relation to other professions, they will require leisure arrangements in line with others, and – not least – they will respect the job they do for Norwegian food production. The latter, in my view, is objectionable. It is in everyone's interest that we meet the challenges of clean food, produced in an ethically acceptable and ecologically sustainable way. As I said, young people must have faith in their food production – that we want it. The 30 pst system for the free movement of milk. in each state is new. The Labour Party went out in the spring and said no to such a scheme – this after the party-group set up at the agricultural negotiations last year had said no to such a scheme. In short, this will be the most economically powerful means of obtaining greater milk quotas and without distinguishing whether the maximum bidder in such a system has the income base on the farm or outside the farm. The working party believes that the evaluation will be exciting, both in terms of price and in terms of the groups that have to buy these allowances. Our recommendation is to use a calendar year before evaluating the scheme. We're a high-cost country. Everyone's serving well. It is therefore impossible to believe that food should be produced cheaper than other goods we produce in Norway. The food industry in this country has approx. 25 pst. more income than, for example, Sweden. The interest rate is high with us, and the crown is strong. It also affects food prices. And yet we're just using approx. 12 pst. of our wages on food, while we travel for over 20 pst. of wages and salaries. In particular, housing prices are high. It's strange that it's the food prices we talk about – at least the most – about. I believe that the parties to this year's agricultural settlement have come to the right conclusion in the negotiations regarding the price. The income of farmers is slightly better than that of other professional groups and an interest rate support scheme is in place. The working party's hope is that this can make it possible for the industry to see financial opportunities, both for those who are already in the industry and for those who want to take over. All parties, including the Advance Party, have a responsibility to respect professionals in line with other product producers. Maybe we'll be a little bit more upright with that in the future. The Working Party will therefore vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e281	The representative, Mr Gaundal, spokesperson of the Labour Party on the agricultural settlement, has also been out in the media in advance of the treatment and said that it is acceptable to support increased target prices, but would be a little more restrictive in the case of subsidies and State aid schemes. What is happening now – if from my point of view I try to establish the status of Norwegian agriculture – is that the scope for action is decreasing, because imports are increasing considerably from year to year. The export is flattened or reduced. Regulatory exports will be gradually limited by the WTO and borderline leakage is increasing. At the same time, we know that our food giants, like Prior, Guild, etc., are now increasing prices. All of this, of course, will flourish through the food chain and result in increased prices for consumers. That's the fact. And when we look at our neighboring country, for example. Sweden, has now passed the legislation on competition supervision. Increasing competition is achieved by establishing new actors, including international food giants, and many indications that prices will fall. So I miss what is offensive about this agricultural settlement. How can a positive development be achieved? How can you deal with the negative? The Labour Party supports the agricultural settlement, so I would like to have some signals about what the Workers' Party really means because the Norwegian farmer is going to be competitive and get on the offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e292	The representative Hedstrøm says that the action space is getting narrower and narrower. But the space we have for action we should at least use. I see the challenges in relation to our neighboring country and price. I was also in the middle of my post. We have to look at both the interest rate, the price and the cost level at home before comparing with food production in other countries. But we have to put the problem down a little bit. If it is that the level of costs in Norway, our welfare systems, etc., which also affects price, is a problem for the Progress Party, I think they have to say that the level has to fall. I have to remind you that, as I said, we spend a very small amount of our income on food. We're working less and less for food. 2 hours and 17 minutes Ola Nordmann has to work to earn a week's food consumption. It's 15 minutes less than in 2001. I think I'd say as Harald Milli, Secretary General of the League, once said, it's better that they trade food than fight on the border, at least – even if it's a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e301	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e304	President! I have asked for the floor in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e311	The President regrets – although there may not be a clever expression in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e314	The representative Gaundal tried in his reply to me to explain the price level of Norwegian agriculture. We believe, of course, regardless of party color, that we have difficult climatic conditions in Norway, and that this makes prices higher here than in some other countries. But there may be shared opinions about the regulatory systems and whether we need to have the high prices of good quality food in Norway based on our natural circumstances. I'm from Eastfold. Why should it be that a farmer just across the border, in Värmland or in Bohuslän, who has the same climatic and topographical conditions as we in Eastfold or in Westfold, should win initially? They have the same health, environmental and safety production requirements. So that's my question to the representative Gaundal: why should the Norwegian farmer lose in the first place? And one more question: I often hear this propaganda from the League that we are still working less for food per person. week. But should we use the same argument in other contexts where we have approximated monopoly? In line with the fact that we accept higher food prices, should we also accept higher prices on air travel, because we have an approximate monopoly? Does the representative Mr Gaundal think that is an argument that can also be used in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e325	The representative Hedstrom mentions what should also be included, namely the difficult climatic conditions we have in Norway. Now they have difficult climatic conditions in Sweden as well. But it's a fact that they've cut out growing groceries in the most difficult areas in Sweden, while we're holding on to it. The wish of the Labour Party is that we should stick to food production, even if it is climatically difficult. The representative Hedstrom points out that he lives in Eastfold. I am aware of the challenges facing Swedish trade. But we who live in Nord-Trøndelag see that the Swedes come over and shop groceries there. So it's clear that one has several different price levels on the food in Sweden, no matter where in Sweden a trade food is. I understand that the pressure on Eastfold is strong. There's a lot of people living near the border. But, as I said, we see that the Swedes cross the border of the North Trunde Team and trade agricultural goods there. So I think, as I said, that we have to tone down the challenges that are, and not let the debate be as heated as I think the Progress Party has a tendency to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e334	No more people have asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e337	I want to start by expressing satisfaction with the negotiated agreement that we are going to decide on today. For many years, the right has considered that agricultural policy needs to be modernised. We need to facilitate an agricultural policy that contributes to development and innovation. Over the last few years, we have seen that the policy has limited the right of farmers to have access to the resource base and the free exercise of the profession. As a result, income opportunities have also been weakened. The result has been that agriculture has become more and more dependent on limited government grants. The right considers that the individual farmer – and not the authorities – is best placed to determine how the operation is to be conducted. We believe that there is a positive trend in the direction that has now been negotiated through the agreement. There is no other industry that has undergone such a formidable transformation over the last generation as agriculture. The number of uses, as pointed out by several speakers, has fallen sharply, while the agricultural area is at about the same level. On average, use has increased. They're almost twice as big today as they were 20 years ago. In 2000, agriculture produced almost twice as much, or 50 pst. more, food than in 1960, by 23 pst. of the hour spent in 1960. Taking into account that the number of uses in that period has been reduced to one third, labour productivity has more than doubled during that period. In 1958, households used approx. 40 pst. of the disposable income of food, while last year we used between 11 and 12 pst. for food. This development is due to a willingness and ability to improve efficiency and is due to technological developments. This in turn has helped to secure and secure jobs in the food industry. A report from NILF, the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Economic Research, shows that the future prospects are facing challenges. Agriculture will have major problems in getting out of what NILF describes as domestic clamps, where imports are increasing as a result of demands from both opinion here in Norway and in the negotiations with the WTO. We are not able to respond at the same rate with commercial exports, because of the level of costs we have here in the country. NILF believes that there has been a significant shift of power in food sales, and that it is likely to become stronger in the years to come. Trade in goods exerts a strong price pressure back in the value chain. It's in addition to the international pressure that we get through WTO demands. We therefore believe that it is positive that this agricultural agreement now opens up new ways of organising operations, new ways of setting up operations. We believe that it should be a prerequisite that these changes lead to farmers retaining the economies of scale. The agricultural agreement promotes proposals for solutions which are clearly in the direction of such modernisation. The conditions for co-operation are improved. An increase from the current ceiling of 500000 litres to 750000 litres is recommended. The maximum distance requirement of 8 km is increased. The quota limit for individual uses for the purchase of the milk quota is raised to 225 000 litres. In the case of the trading of allowances, 70 pst. the allowance put out for sale is sold to the country, 30 pst. may be freely traded within the limits of the county. A number of compromises have been agreed in the agreement on measures to contribute to the necessary conversion and efficiency. It is important that we can thus cooperate with the industry on these issues. An example of this is the agreement on the scheme which increases the operating space of milk producers. One can contribute to more efficient production by introducing the free movement system for parts of the milk quota. The deal has a total framework of 750 million. kr if one calculates the income value of the increased tax deduction and a net amount of 450 million. kr. Target prices are increased by 475 million. kr, and the government budget appropriations are reduced by 135 million. kr. In addition, the Government has proposed the extension of a tax regime – which is not part of the agreement, as it is known, for tax not to be negotiated – which was partially in force in 2000. The agreement is intended to provide for an increase in income per year. annual work that is larger than the other occupational groups in society can count on. Recruitment has been a matter that has addressed us in agriculture. I believe that what we are now seeing with regard to the introduction of the interest rate subsidy scheme is positive with regard to getting new practitioners into the industry. In this context, it is also important to point out that we are pursuing an economic policy here in the country that helps to keep interest rates down, in itself is also very important for this industry. There is a relatively good balance in today's market. Therefore, we have reason to hope that a target price increase of approx. 3 pst. will not have a significant adverse effect on the food industry. Agriculture is an important industry for large parts of the country and has a significant impact on rural policy. In the interests of future housing and employment, it is important to develop alternatives to traditional agriculture. It is important that we try to look for new sources of nutrition in agriculture, but also for the development of alternative industries. I am pleased that we are continuing the value creation programme, which focuses on the whole value chain and the opportunities that agriculture and the food industry have for developing specialities and regional products. I would like to conclude that I am pleased that we have a negotiated agreement that shows that there is relatively broad agreement on agricultural policy. It also shows that agriculture – the industry itself – is willing to participate in a development, is part of the development, as we see for ourselves in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e367	It is alarming to note the significant difference we see in the Right now when they are in position, compared to when they were in opposition in the previous magnification period and Ansgar Gabrielsen was an agricultural policy spokesman. He kept talking about the farmer as a self-employed person, and that one had to liberalize and deregulate. He was a champion to do something about the land limits in the concession law, he wanted to take some sectors out of the law on sales, he was a champion to liberalize the rules on joint ventures, etc. Many might have expected much of the Right when they got into government position, like the big, heavy and dominant party, even though they didn't get the Minister of Agriculture. But when I think back, there's a significant difference. I remember Gabrielsen saying in this room: When we get these agricultural agreements to be treated, we stick to the nose, and then we put a little salt on. But I'm putting a big question mark on this strange system. My question to the representative Momyr will be: Where does the liberalisation and regulation process on which the Right was at least very much involved in the previous magnification period, and when they were in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e376	The degree of eye-catching changes it is from the previous period to this year, I do not want to comment. I just want to state that the Court's positions on agricultural policy are firm. I would like to say to the representative Hedstrom that many of the points he mentions in his reply are precisely points that lead to greater influence for the individual user. If we are to use the concept of liberalisation, the movement of allowances leads to liberalisation in terms of the size of use. And that's completely in line with what's Right Policy. But it's now that when you cooperate, it's by taking the best out of the cooperating parties that you get the best solution. In this sense, I want to establish that what we have in front of us today is the best solution – a good sum of the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e383	I want to quote a plural in the Committee where the Right is in: ‘This plurality indicates that the Norwegian Government considers that there is still a need for a separate agricultural agreement in the WTO, which provides sufficient room for action for Member States to pursue an active agricultural policy and which provides the basis for decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use in line with our needs. It must be possible to maintain an agricultural sector under difficult climatic conditions and to take care of so-called non-commercial considerations – such as territorial, food security, the protection of cultural landscapes and the care of biological diversity.’ These last concerns are characterised by so-called defensive interests in the WTO. I seem to remember that there was a colleague of both myself and Michael Momyr from the nutrition committee who travelled around in the election campaign and proclaimed that the right in the election between the offensive interests of the aquaculture industry within the WTO was willing to renounce the defensive interests of agriculture. So I am pleased to note that this is something that the Right Government has turned on. Then I would like to ask the representative Momyr: Does Right change the meaning? Or is this part of the price one is required to pay to sit in government with the Christian People's Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e395	Firstly, there is reason to conclude that agriculture and fish are being treated differently in the WTO negotiations. I guess there's no reason why it should be automatically put in context. It is also important to note that the Right has always wanted us to have an agricultural policy in which we ensure self-sufficiency and that it is an important part of rural policy. But it has always been important for us to get a greater distinction between what is general means of caring for just the common good, among other things. the cultural landscape, while seeking to improve the efficiency of food production. And the fact that we have now come a step further just to see the general instruments and support for production separately is completely in line with what is expected of us in the WTO context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e400	I think it is good that the representative Momyr here states that agriculture and fish should not be linked to the WTO. There's no reason. It is good that it is said, of course, on the right hand side of this pulpit. In relation to the reply to the representative Hedstrøm, it is probably the case, as Momyr also stated, that the Right's positions are generally firm. But the wrapping becomes sympathetic when the representative Momyr presents it, and it can also be a little dangerous. There were two things in particular that Momyr said in his post that I attached myself to. One was that agriculture has been through a great transformation. I agree. It is often contrary to the image of some critics of agricultural policy that agriculture is a rigid sector. On the contrary, I believe, like the representative Momyr, that agriculture has always been in a process of conversion and efficiency that has been quite large and wide. You've also been open to new opportunities. The representative Momyr also said that agriculture was an industry with limited resources. I agree with that. It has not least happened through what I would call a weakening of respect for private property rights, and an infinite need from the public to protect areas that could otherwise have been used for business purposes in agriculture. One sees land as a potential for agriculture, but it is an industry that is currently limited in terms of protection proposals and protection plans. Now it is the case that the Right has an Environment Minister who is eager to draw up this type of protection proposal and who, at the top of it, will not be involved in discussing a fair compensation scheme related to protection proposals. I therefore have to ask the representative Momyr how it really is with the Right relation to private ownership and not least compensation in relation to that type of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e413	I choose to take it as a compliment to be described as a sympathetic wrapping paper. But I'm going to think that the realities of what is the Right View and what is the Government's view came out through my post. To take the last one first: I am pleased with the alliance with the Center Party on ownership and the questions raised through the line from Marit Arnstad. We will have ample opportunity to discuss this in the future. But I realize that the debate on ownership will become important in the coming days, both in agricultural policy and in other policy areas. The replicator also addressed the constraints of agriculture. It seemed from the line that Arnstad actually agreed with the Right that, through the policy we have pursued, we have placed considerable limits on the possibilities that agricultural operators have had to operate. Then I ask that the replicator look at what is important in this agreement. It goes, as I see it, towards a greater possibility for the individual practitioner to get the most out of his farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e422	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e425	The Government and the Government have agreed on an agricultural agreement corresponding to an increase in income per year. annual work of NOK 10 700. The party notes that it is largely the same as before. Priority will be given to transfers of DKK 12 billion, which will be added to the shielding support and other support outside the contract agency. Although there is a need for a course change in Norwegian agricultural policy, the Government is not willing to take the consequences. The few signals that come to establish more flexible and cost-effective market solutions, such as: Whereas the free movement of milk quotas, the reduction of the quota limit for milk production in joint farms and the improvement of the possibilities for higher single-use milk quotas are far from sufficient to achieve the necessary pace of adaptation of Norwegian agriculture to an international competitive situation, as we all know. It's just a matter of time. We also note that the scheme of target price increases will work in the opposite direction and will probably help to accelerate borderline leakage further. We believe that the Government should have used the possibility of a price conversion to a more efficient production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. A postponement of this process, as agricultural production indicates, will be harmful to agriculture in the long term. It is natural to comment on the milk sector first, because it is the most expensive and well-regulated agricultural sector. The proposed scheme was 30 p.m. of the allowances can be freely traded within each State, is of course a step in the right direction, but it goes too small. In order to substantiate this claim, I will try to draw a picture of developments in other Nordic countries. At the beginning of the 1970s, the average milk consumption in the Nordic countries was about the same — only Denmark stood out. Norway stands about on the ground resting, while Sweden passed 30 dairy cows per year. use five years ago. Finland is increasing by rocket speed, and Denmark is approaching 60 dairy cows per year. use. This helps to make dairy farms at home more rational and lose in competition with neighbouring countries. Norway is a member of the EEA and the WTO, and therefore we will have to provide Norwegian agriculture with competitive opportunities that are much more adapted to our main and closest trading partners. The other Nordic countries have made a leap in competitiveness that we cannot regain without rationalising the use at a faster pace. The Progress Party has therefore put forward a proposal to be able to market the whole milk quota without restricting it to the individual counties and to make it nationwide. The scheme will then have a dynamic effect through a significant opportunity for farmers to take advantage of the available premises or make investments to develop the necessary efficiency and rationality. This is how it is developed in Sweden. There, milk producers can freely sell and buy allowances without a bureaucratic intermediary. So it's going to go well. It is free pricing, experience gained, and sales have increased. However, not only larger dairy holdings need to be developed. Increased investment in co-operation is also a necessity. There is a better way of facilitating co-operation in this agricultural establishment, but there is a long way to go. We have not been served with restrictions for farmers who, through joint ventures, are seeking to develop a more rational form of production, which allows professionals to share economies of scale and take out more vacation and leisure time. More investment in cooperative ventures will also give fewer lonely farmers. Unfortunately, it is primarily the agricultural organisations that have been against sensible development in this area, as we see it. Professor Normann Anesland and researcher Olaf Holm have conducted a study of the socio-economic effects of cooperatives and larger units in milk production. If economies of scale are exploited, milk can be produced as much as it is now, with less labour and less capital input. In the case of the introduction of AS in agriculture and freely marketable milk quotas, there is a significant cost gain to be derived. The calculations for Anesland and Holm suggest that by reducing the number of dairy farms to a third party of what we have today, the value creation in the Norwegian countryside will increase by SEK 3.42 billion a year. This is intended as a description of the situation and the opportunities available in Norway, under our difficult topographical and climatic conditions, to exploit the potential that, after all, lies there. As I have seen, agriculture will gradually be exposed to competition in the coming years. It would then be logical to liberalise the law and reduce the ambitions to control the structure of use in the course of this development. In the future, when farmers have to take greater responsibility for their own incomes, conditions should be facilitated rather than a lack of appropriate legislation. This can be done by reducing the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and effective. Soil and concession law is central to this picture. As we see it, agriculture has run into a corner. The farmers have gradually been deprived of their ownership, their right to self-determination and made dependent on the favor of politicians. All essential ownership functions are governed by concession laws and other legislation so that farmers cannot freely buy and sell agricultural land or choose the form of operation. Nor can the farmers themselves determine the number of chickens or pigs they want to produce, have so far not been able to start milk production without having bought milk quotas from the country, and much more. The Norwegian farmer is basted and tied to the hands and feet of quota and regulatory arrangements. If they are not followed, and the farmer thinks to act himself, be creative, and try to get the most out of the rugs he has, yes, then he gets criminalized. There is therefore a strong need for a new agricultural policy that requires radical changes in the overall business environment of agriculture and rural areas. What needs to be done – we believe – is to give more leeway to angry farmers for their own development by, among other things, abolishing production restrictions, abolishing concessional limits in the Law on Acquired Livestock Management, abolishing restrictions on the sale of land and forest property and repealing the concession and residence and operational obligations. Equally important, special legislation in the field of agricultural cooperation limits competition and pushes prices upwards, unnecessarily, and should therefore be abolished. Based on what has been said, we also want to wind up the system of commercial agreements, whether it be an agricultural agreement, a fisheries agreement or a reindeer management agreement. Other traders do not have such agreements. We do not have a hotel agreement or a building master's agreement! The agricultural agreement is a comprehensive and unbridled business agreement – a complex affair with a large red tape linked to unbridled circumstances. More than 100 grant and aid schemes are linked to this agreement, combined with detailed legislation. Thousands of public servants raise wages to keep all payments, applications and checks in order. Most of these agricultural bureaucrats have to carry their farmers on their backs – completely unnecessary. It would be much better to place the grant schemes and instruments directly below the State budget and to abolish the existing system of agricultural agreements. Furthermore, the grants should be based on equal aid per year. animal or unit produced. Then the farmer will have the best starting point through his own efforts and industriousness to develop farm resources in order to achieve the best possible profit – because that is what this is all about, and we see that in the negotiations on an agricultural agreement. The reality of the Norwegian peasants of the future will be tough. He will constantly face challenges and threats of being uncompetitive. The Progress Party will, among other things, contributing and compensating for some disadvantages in providing tax conditions in the world class, and giving great freedom to impeccable farmers for their own efforts. We will give farmers leeway to develop ingenuity, creativity and value creation through the opportunities they have through owning land, forests, hunting and fishing rights. It will be necessary to present new solutions to bring Norwegian agriculture forward, a policy that will enable farmers to maintain their professional pride and love for the soil, the countryside, the districts and their own production. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e455	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e460	In my opinion, the agricultural agreement is the most important means of having an agriculture across the country, and thus of ensuring food production, good use of natural resources, a cultural landscape in established and living areas. It is not that this has failed. We have so far had living and active farms, very competent farmers and a production of clean and safe food that is of the highest in the world, and of which we can be proud. In the nomination, the Progress Party reiterates its old requirement to terminate the entire agricultural agreement and to have the market control over everything. The Troms County Council recently issued an opinion where the Advance Party is involved, among other things. is: ‘The future of agriculture in this part of the country depends on political choices that facilitate the preservation of food production, the cultural landscape and the settlement.’ In the statement, they also say that combined operation, i.e. time use, must be a natural alternative. Is it compatible with the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and with the view of the party in the position we are dealing with today? Is this the change in the course the party is asking for, or is it such that the Progress Party in Troms is totally in favour of the parent party in the agricultural policy? Do the local parties perhaps have more contact with the realities of agricultural policy than the parent party has?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e475	I have been elected as a party representative on the party's major election program, and I must have done much better in the framework of this decision in order to be able to express myself seriously. But I can make it quite clear that we are against the whole agricultural agreement system. That is what we believe to be directly wrong, and that is what is said in all other countries. It's been over ten years since Sweden abolished this system. I am pleased that we have the Minister of Administration, Victor Norman, here, who is going to go through and rationalize the public sector. So here we have thousands of bureaucrats who run this system in detail. Here he should go in and give this first priority. I am sure that the Norwegian farmer, if he does not know what is going on, will be interested in not bearing all these costs of Norwegian agricultural policy on his back, which means that one becomes much less competitive. Of course, the Progress Party does not object to the fact that we have agricultural production in the districts, and that is why, among other things, we do. wish to increase the possibility of joint ventures. For example, milk production Now, following the channelling decision many years ago, is taking place largely in the districts. You have to find profitable productions, find niches, etc. We supported this conversion program, which was also targeted at the districts, but we don't want to leave the world of reality. The representative Arnesen said that the agricultural policy pursued after the war has been successful. Let me give you an example: from 1976 to 1997, if we include the protection aid in the 1997 figure, this cost 500 billion kroner. [[The President clubs.]] In the same period, we had the largest migration from the districts to the central struts [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e486	The President will remember the time of speech. If you're very optimistic, we're done at noon. 01 a.m., but then you're very optimistic. That is why the President has to recommend that the representatives respect the speaking time! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e491	I neither believe nor hope that we will ever have a progressive party society in Norway, where the Progress Party has a decisive influence on the development of Norwegian society. But let me take a thoughtful situation, where the Progress Party should have decided on the Norwegian society and Norwegian agricultural policy. Then I have two short and simple questions for the representative Hedstrøm, whom I want to get clear answers to: How many farms would there be in Norway? That's question 1. Question two: What is the average number of cows on a dairy farm in the Progress Party society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e498	It was unusually easy questions I got from the representative Ryan from the Socialist Left Party. Of course, with more market-based policies, less and more effective use will be made. There is little or no doubt about it at all. In the case of the number of cows per head. usage, I tried to visualize the situation as it has evolved in the Nordic region since the 1970s. In Norway we stand on site resting with approx. 14 cows per day milk farming, while all the other countries are at full speed in the future. Look at Finland now, who has a huge change in agricultural policy. Today we have approx. 18 000 dairy farmers again, as far as I remember. Despite the fact that this is where we have the biggest subsidies, NOK 7-8 billion a year, we lose almost 1,000 dairy farms per year. years. Isn't it much better to try to turn this policy into more rational and effective, so that we can stop this decline when we get to a certain number, instead of having skyscrapers for our eyes and continue with a policy that doesn't work. Isn't it better then to think about and be rational and effective, and see what you've done in other countries where it's been successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e507	The President will give Øystein Hedstrom praise to observe the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e510	The representative Hedstrøm mentioned three things that I noticed especially in the change of line and in his main post. First it was about sementing, that's when it's small, and then he's talking about everything as before, and it's going too small. My experience from More and Romesdal when it comes to end-of-use and rationalisation is that today there are a lot of people who are worried about the countryside, especially those who are in the agricultural industry, but also those who are in the ancillary industries that support the support of agriculture. Then is my question to the representative Hedstrøm: does the Progress Party want an even greater pace and greater security into the industry through the policy they want to pursue? If so, who will take responsibility for it with the cultural landscape? And my third question is: does the Progress Party see any difference in the country – I am thinking of the West/North Norway versus perhaps Trondelag and central Austland district – when it comes to adapting to agriculture? Do you want a single size across the whole country? I think it is of great interest to know in the West and in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e519	It's true that I talked about sementing. That might have been a little bit precise. However, with regard to this new income deduction scheme in agriculture, it works towards natural structuralisation and greater flexibility between uses. At least it supports the continuation of the existing -- it might be a slightly better expression. I would venture to argue that any modern society needs to evolve, different professions, etc. cannot be static. We have had a favourable situation in Norway for a few years now, and we have had little unemployment. I know that, among other things, our Minister for Agriculture has been very concerned with labour immigration, that we will lack labour in the future, and will allow for significant labour migration. It's been suggested a number of 10,000 per. years outside the EEA territory, if I do not remember completely wrong. Here we have the possibility of gradually shifting some labour from industries, industries and enterprises that are no longer continuing to new industries, enterprises and industries. That's how you develop a society. A society shall not be kept static by artificial stimuli, so we need to have a sensible development in that direction, and the Progress Party is spending considerable amounts to stimulate transitional arrangements. We do not think it unreasonable that some professionals who are not in competition or who can claim to be in competition must change at least if they are relatively young or middle-aged and will give priority to it rather than to labour immigration from distant regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e526	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e529	In the Socialist Left Party, we were in doubt this year whether we should vote yes or no to the agricultural agreement. We decided to vote in favour of the agreement as it exists, but we were in doubt. The reason is that we are in doubt that this is going in the right direction in relation to what the Norwegian Storing and Norwegian society wants with Norwegian agricultural policy. We have to ask ourselves that question: what do Norwegian people want with Norwegian agricultural policy? Well, the Norwegian people are actually willing to spend $12 billion a year on agricultural policy, under given conditions. The main premise is that you know that you have access to safe food, which is produced in such a way that you can eat it without getting sick and without having side effects. That is a very important point. Another important point for the Norwegian people is that you know that you have food preparedness in this country – whether there are terrorist acts, animal diseases or there should be war – that actually makes us seaworthy in the event of the crisis. Then the Norwegian people are busy having a cultural landscape, a country that lives. We don't want Swedish states in Norway. We are proud of our country. Whether we are in the West, in Eastfold or in North Norway, we see that we have a country that lives, which is an ornament both for tourists, for residents and for others. Fourthly, the very bearer is – and most people see it – in Norwegian district policy. If we don't have an agriculture that is in a way different, depending on how topography and geography are, large parts of Norwegian district policy are gone in a few years. We have to realize that it is very different to farm in Hedmark versus operate in a fjord in the West. That is why we in EN regret that we have a strong centralisation with Norwegian agricultural policy, which actually prioritizes the major practices rather than the small ones. We want the small user, we want the small user. We want the fisherman, we want the computer, we want the teacher's husband, we want the nurse's husband, that is, the combination farm, where we can afford to have that kind of use, because they're absolutely necessary if we're to maintain agriculture in District Norway. And what's wrong with being 70 pst? Nurse and 30 pst. food producer? What's the problem with that? There is no problem with anything but that it costs a lot of money. But that's the Norwegian people willing to pay, because agriculture does as many functions in District Norway as we need, and we're totally dependent on it. In Lierne – in one of the most remote areas in Lierne – there is a lefse factory that has approx. 50 employees. The manager there says that if agriculture disappears from the Lierne, his factory is also gone. He is totally dependent on the labour force, because it is the combination of users who make the living and are farmers. He's totally dependent on agriculture. If agriculture goes away, it's gone. And we could do these examples over and over again. In centralisation, as I mentioned, we are given a transition to greater use with the agricultural settlement of the year. We also see that there is a centralisation within parts of the country, where there is now an extra NOK 5000 for milk producers in Eastfold, Westfold, Akershus and along the Oslofjorden. We're sorry you have such a development. We are also very critical of the milk exchange that is now coming. It'll also go in the same direction. Large use that has the ability to buy up milk quotas is only growing, while the smaller ones will disappear. We also demand what the state will do with the 70 pst. which they sort of take care of. What's the device going to be? Is it also going to go to the big customs, or is it going to be used to strengthen the regional policy profile, which we depend on? So I'd like to mention a couple of other areas that concern us in the agricultural business. We think it's taken too little into account with recruitment. Recruitment of young people to continue this tradition seems to us to be underfocused. I find this recruitment difficult. On the other hand, we want to keep the combination user, i.e. the small user, but at the same time, we need to be open so that some young people want new ways to run the farms, where you cooperate more closely, get more vacation and leisure time. On Friday I was in Highlands talking to a lot of young people, and they are very clear that they want other forms of cooperation that allow them to get more leisure time, more work community and opportunities to do things differently. These challenges we have to tackle, so that we have the traditional small farms that many people want to have, but also open up to the new people who want to run this in a different way. In Norway we have approx. 21⁄2 pst. Organic food production, and we have an ambition to get up to 10 pst. In agriculture, consumer demand for this type of product has not been taken into account for many years. Therefore, developments in the production of more organically at snail speed. I also think that the agricultural settlement takes too little hold and does too little to allow us to reach this 10 pst.- by 2010, so that consumers have the opportunity to get this kind of goods in a simpler way in the shops around the country. In Denmark, there are actually now 45 000 families who subscribe to the island. Forty-five thousand families subscribe to the onslaught, and they get it brought home when they want it. We in Norway have to take this inward, both on the health side, and also on the assumption that this is a niche so that the farmer can take out more in price and that farming can become more profitable. Animal welfare is another aspect that is not described in the farm layout. I believe that next year's agricultural settlement will have to take account of the fact that much more money has to be spent on animal welfare measures. We are going to deal with an animal welfare report in Stortingen to the autumn, and then I think there will be a number of demands for conversion in agriculture within this area. This means, for example: that this with loose movement, the comfort of the cows in the feathers, etc., must be taken into account for the cost of money. In that case, it is also necessary to include in the farm layout so that farmers can be compensated if they take the necessary animal welfare measures. In the end, I think it's legitimacy in the Norwegian people to spend the money on agriculture that we use today. That's actually legitimacy, I think, to spend even more money on agriculture if we had a majority for that in the Storting. But if we're going to do that, we have to innovate that the Norwegian people realize that it's not just food production it's about, but it's one of the most important steps Stortinget is doing in order for us to have a living country and a district policy that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e568	The representative Ryan made a post where he spoke warmly about the part-time user and the combination user, and that is a point of view I agree with. But I have a feeling that Ryan, after talking about the part-time user and the combination user, forget that those who want to develop their units will also have the opportunity. We must not allow such a nostalgic argument to hinder that development. The representative Ryan uses the term ‘milk exchange’ in a decreasing way. There are no words used in the agreement. What we're talking about is a negotiability of up to 30 pst. of an allowance to be liquidated. What I want to challenge the representative Ryan is the fact that when it comes to the sale of allowances today, it's not only the small uses that have chosen it, it's also a lot of big uses that have chosen it. Does the representative Ryan not see the possibility that just a negotiability of parts of the milk quota can help to strengthen those who actually have a good starting point in order to achieve a better economy in their full-time use?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e575	First of all, I don't think it's nostalgic to talk about the part-time farmer. I think it is absolutely necessary to have part-time farmers, as Norway has been created. So to the question. It is the armod that is the main reason why a number of farmers go to the step of selling the milk quota. I think it's important that the state manages the sale of dairy farmers, so that you have the opportunity to do political work in relation to development. The fact that you have a milk exchange means that you allow the free market to work, and we know that leads to centralisation and great use. We want the state to take care of this, so that it can be used actively to address the areas that we in SV think are important, use it as a district policy tool, because we know that in some places in the country there is milk production that is possible to obtain, while other parts of the country have other types of opportunities. We want to control it, we don't want to let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e582	Under the chapter on international trade and import protection in the setting, SV emphasises in particular the importance of sound import protection. Imports from the MUL countries and other underdeveloped countries are also to be opened up, but mechanisms must be in place to enable us to continue and ensure the market balance for Norwegian food in the Norwegian market. Here I have some problems understanding SV's overall policy, because they want to provide assistance in the 12-, 14-, 15-billion-dollar class, mainly to the Third World. Under the Sales Act, Norwegian subsidies and world market prices are used to export significant quantities of food products for certain years, and they are to be imported on such markets by developing countries. Many developing countries can only build up by means of agricultural production. They often produce meat, expensive proteins that they sell on the international market. Then they buy cheap proteins, grain, rice, etc. and uses the difference to improve their standard of living and living. SV wants to be restrictive with regard to imports from the third world and always prioritizing Norwegian farmers and Norwegian conditions, while at the same time being willing to subsidise exports, use significant export subsidies under the Sales Act. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e587	This with import protection is absolutely essential for us to be able to keep Norwegian agriculture as we want it to – absolutely crucial. However, with regard to some of the poor developing countries, we have said that we need to give them more opportunities to sell goods to Norway. They must have greater opportunities than today to sell goods to Norway, but this is a very complex picture that is difficult to explain just in a short row. On the one hand, we know that some of these countries have food shortages — not all, but some of them — and others have other types of problems. But we have said that we think it is important to engage in dialogue with those countries and to have a good deal of trade, but this with import protection is for us very much in the future, and we are not willing to do anything particularly about it. But we are, as I said, willing to do a lot of work, especially in relation to the poorest countries, precisely because they need some capital so that they can get away from the hopeless situation that many of them are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e592	I had problems getting something concrete and concise out of the answer that Ryan gave me. As the rapporteur pointed out, we currently have a market balance with regard to most traditional Norwegian food products. This means that import opportunities are limited. When, in its comments in the statement, SV points out that we should have a solid import protection and that we should ensure this market balance through special mechanisms, how can SV claim to be solidarity with the third world and open up some special imports? Which specific suggestions or comments in the setting or in other settings, e.g. the positions of the Foreign Affairs Committee, point that out? I'm just asking for a short and concise answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e599	The representative Hedstrøm asks for a short and concise answer, and he will receive it. We want strong import protection, but we're willing to look further at how we can deal with the Third World, so that they get the opportunity to get something more income.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e604	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e607	In the agricultural debate in the future, it would have been an advantage if you had clarified some conditions, that you had decided on what starting point you have, and that you had been open in relation to that starting point. The center party's starting point is that we think producing food is a good thing for the Norwegian community. It's a good thing that one sheep used the 3.2 pst. of Norway, which is a productive land, and it is good that society contributes to both the respect they deserve and the income they earn for those who operate in agriculture. It's going to cost money for the Norwegian community, but we believe that getting safe food, using the area we have, and giving those who put down a labor effort within the industry, a decent income, is a good thing for our society. I am not so busy with the time user or full-time user, of combined use or co-operation. I think Norwegian agriculture needs all of these. I think you need people who work together. I think there's a need for combination use. I think we need the part-time farmer, and I think we need the full-time farmer. I simply believe that Norwegian agriculture must, in the future, consist of diversity more than uniformity. It must consist of a diversity of both things being produced, how one chooses to produce them and in which parts of the country it happens. That's my starting point. At the same time, my main objection to the agricultural agreement that is now being adopted is that it contains a uniformity rather than diversity, a uniformity towards an agricultural sector characterised by larger units, increased specialisation and too strong a focus on price and structural conversion. I want an agriculture where one can develop opportunities in several fields. I want an agriculture where he who is a full-time farmer is allowed to develop opportunities within his type of production, and where he who is a part-time farmer is allowed to develop within the possibilities and niches that he or she can have, an agriculture where those who combine different types of production can also be given priority. I also want an agriculture where one is proud of what one has, and where one gives young people faith and willingness to invest in agriculture in the future. I want an agriculture where the environment and quality, both of them, are central. If one wants such agriculture in the years to come, there is something one has to accept. The first thing I've mentioned, and that's that farming in Norway is going to cost society something! Trying to imagine people something else is just creepy. And trying to imagine people that one should be able to conduct the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and continue to see farmers over the whole country is just creepy! Although Hedstrom will not say this today, the Progress Party has previously said that at least 30,000 farmers must leave. If one expects one to take half away in the food industry, we're up to 50,000. Then Norway does not look the same in the districts in the years to come as it would have done with the agricultural policy I want. One must accept that agriculture is absolutely crucial to rural policy. None of the objectives set by the Government for its regional policy will be achieved without leading a good agricultural policy. Agriculture is glued in District Norway, you can't get out of it. All other rural policy measures will be either short-term or inconclusive if one is not at the same time willing to pursue an active agricultural policy. The main problem with the agricultural agreement, as it has now been concluded, is not the framework of the agreement, but the structural changes contained in the agreement and its long-term consequences. Now structural changes are often produced as modernisation, but one has to ask the question: what is the direction of modernisation? It is not that if one disagrees with the Government’s form of modernisation, it is against modernisation. You might want to modernise in a slightly different direction than what the government is now adding up to. I think that this agreement is going to increase the pressure in terms of a restructuring, and the main objections the Central Party has to the agreement relate to all the arrangements that, in total, lead to it. However, we have chosen not to accept the agreement. One of the reasons for this is that this is a negotiated agreement, and that the agricultural sea believes that this is a better deal than one would have if the state had gone right to the Storting, because then we know what would have happened: then even the Christian People's Party would have come together with the Progress Party and secured a worse result than what you see now. I also think there are important questions that have been asked here today. One of the most important is, what is the critical mass usage? What is the critical level of use in Norway? It's going to be an important point to discuss in the years to come. With this I would like to address the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e633	Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e638	It was natural for the representative Arnstad to voice the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, as the Centre Party is on one side and the Advance Party on the other. We are the counterparts of agricultural policy. I fully accept that the Center Party has its position. They want to provide higher target prices, increased subsidies, special tax advantages, small-scale farming, etc. In an old, good-looking style. It's got to be the central party's position, it's in line with their program. But there's a couple of things that I find hard to see related to the industrial policy of the Center Party in the districts. It is an undeniable fact that we have a number of other industries and companies that are competitive in districts that are struggling hard because of poor infrastructure, small domestic markets and many other issues related to district location. Then we have other food producers, especially on the marine side. Norway is a net exporter of food because of our fisheries and our farming industry. What is the reason why the Central Party will inject DKK 12 billion into the agricultural industry and a significant proportion into the districts, while the others who are exposed to competition, visionary and forward-looking do not get five ears of this? How does this central party policy relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e647	It is quite right that the Progress Party and the Central Party are anti-pollutions in agricultural policy. Unlike the Progress Party, I do not want to waste up to 50,000 jobs in the districts. I think it would have dramatic consequences, not least for those parts of the country that depend on the employment of agriculture and the food industry. And sail if Hedstrom hasn't dared to say here today that it's about so many jobs, his party traps in the Nord-Trøndelag have confirmed it up to several times. It is true that I believe that the possibility of increasing transfers and increasing target prices and tax relief should be taken out here. Why shouldn't tax relief be used as an instrument in relation to agriculture, just as it would to other industries? I think that is an excellent proposal. The centre party will not only do it in relation to agriculture either. We have just made a proposal in the context of the ownership notification to exempt active owners from property taxes on industrial assets. There is something that will benefit everyone who owns his own business, and who is active in the business, for the benefit of the company. But strangely enough, there's some sort of tax haven that the Progress Party won't stand behind. So you can ask the question, what kind of tax haven is the Progress Party really wants? In any case, you cannot stand here on the platform and say that the Centre Party has not made proposals concerning other businesses and other businesses that are also important in the districts, namely the business that is based on the active owners. Regarding the prices, I have to say that the focus of the Advance Party here is strange. So they must have Swedish prices and Norwegian wages. They're talking about getting cheaper food in Sweden, but they're not saying that there's also much less to earn than what we do in Norway. The prom will try to put people in bags and sacks, and it's throwing blues in people's eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e657	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e660	Let me first say that in the case of an incubation, there was an error in the annex part of the preliminary version of the proposition, where a table with a textual enumeration relating to ‘New maximum pasture area per coarse animal’. This is corrected in the final version. The propositions are otherwise correct and equal. The agricultural agreement concluded with the Norwegian Lander is a good agreement for agriculture. The elements of the agreement increase the income option of NOK 10 700 per person. annual work. That's about 7 pst. relative to the level of income in agriculture. Nevertheless, many outside the agreement are at least equally important for the development of incomes in agriculture. This applies not least to the development of costs. With the commitments we look at the level of price and transfer in the future, more efficient production is necessary both for the satisfactory development of income for active producers and for society to produce the collective good that agriculture supplies to its citizens over time. I am pleased that the free movement of milk quotas and the simplification of the instruments have been implemented within the framework of an agreement. From the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, on Norwegian agriculture and food production, two years ago, the Stortinget and various governments have pointed to the need for greater flexibility in the quota system and structural development of milk production. It is in this production that the action space for manufacturers has been clearly at least. In order to increase the space for action, some ceilings and restrictions are also lifted or removed. I am convinced, along with the greater possibility of buying a quota, that milk production will be more attractive for young people who consider taking over a use and developing it into an exciting company. Yeah, I'm saying business. For agriculture, it consists of self-employed persons with a significant responsibility for their own operations and income. More intervention in the agreement will help to strengthen farmers' focus on this. I am pleased with all the contributions that facilitate entrepreneurship for those who are eager to create a small business. At the same time, the Government proposed to extend the agricultural deduction in the context of the tax equation in the pre-negotiating period of 200 Mio. kr. The extension shall be proportional to the income over existing deductions. It targets the agricultural aid for use where the agricultural holding can make a substantial income contribution. This way of supporting agriculture is more effective than increasing the grant of the agreement. This applies both in relation to the proceeds of the State budget and in terms of its impact on the business economy in agriculture, and it is the simplest administrative approach. Tax is not a negotiable issue, but proposals for decisions are included in the proposal, because the parties to the agreement have based the proposal on both the framework and its distribution. The agreement implements several simplifications, partly on the basis of the proposals contained in the report of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research on simplification and targeting. This work shall continue. It is necessary and is a natural part of the simplification work of the Government. I have noticed that a broad majority in the vote sees the transition to two-year agreements as an important simplification measure and asks the Ministry to assess such a transition in the agricultural negotiations next year. Such an assessment will be carried out. Biennial agreements have several aspects, but less frequent changes in a comprehensive and complex framework will help increase predictability for traders. It is not least important for investments in a long-term industry such as agriculture. At the same time, it can help to turn the industry’s focus away from rights in relation to the contractual system and more towards the business and market opportunities themselves. I would also like to point out the environmental work that is taking place in agreement. From 2003 environmental plan requirements are introduced for all enterprises applying for production grants. This will help target efforts in relation to local environmental challenges and increase the industry’s focus on environmental work. This shall be coordinated as much as possible with other planning and quality work to minimise red tape. There are changed actions and better results that are the goal. The cultural landscape is central to the Norwegian landscape and Norway as a tourism product. People who travel by ferry from Hellesylt to Geiranger – perhaps some of the most beautiful natural landscape Norway can show – notice that the guide spends most of the time briefing on the cultural landscape along the route, on the effects of agriculture that give the landscape history and culture. As a collective good, the agreement compensates for all production of cultural landscapes in the same way. I am also pleased that the majority support the efforts of the Norwegian Tourist Council to promote Norway as a tourist destination in their own country and that this needs to be developed with the support of the tourism industry and the public sector outside the agreement. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of increasing the diversity of agriculture. This applies both in food production and in other industrial developments. The emphasis on the value creation programme is continued. In the next phase, the link to the volume and non-food segments shall be considered. The aim is to increase the integration of export efforts and to increase the participation of the food industry. The food industry is very important and therefore the conditions of competition of this branch are well safeguarded in the agreement in general. Organic farming shall be further developed. In the agreement, the parties have focused on removing the bottlenecks, which are important for the objective of 10 pst. The ecological area shall be achievable. The agreement also facilitates a significant increase in the investment in bioenergy. This allows soil and forest users to become suppliers of renewable energy. It can reduce the dependence of society on fossil energy and is a bet that has produced very good results in Sweden. But I would like to stress that this should not be a bet for which the public should be responsible. As in other parts of the agricultural agreement, it facilitates those who wish to invest with their own resources and competences to create an industry under their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e687	In order to reduce overproduction on milk, the quota system was introduced. There are many uses that currently have free capacity. Our uses are of different sizes. Let me illustrate: a use that today has 175 000 litres of milk, has an owner who has a director's job of 1.1 million. kr in addition to the income of the farm. He has free capacity, because the usage was 235,000 liters. And then we have a use that has 80,000 liters of milk. The wife is working at the old age home. That use also has free capacity. The working party believes that, when allowances are now available, the capacity of existing operational buildings must be used. Obviously, those who have milk production will purchase allowances to fill the available capacity. As far as I know, there has been more demand than there have been available allowances for sale. I have two questions for the Council of State: Is it possible for him to lay down a framework for the State's quotas which prioritise the use that has unused overcapacity in his plant? If the answer is no, does the Council accept that we get new construction as a consequence of the free movement of milk quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e696	It's always dangerous for an industry that could think of the idea, to pull up the ladder after itself and not open and drop to others who will bet in the industry. It'll be the consequence when we've had a quota system over so long. We should remember that the quota system was introduced just after a time when there were very many initial investments and start-ups in milk production. Now we see the pain points of an overly rigid quota system, because there will be a need for initial investment. New people who need to invest come in and take over the industry. That's why it's so important that we have a negotiable quota system. For a young milk producer who takes over a use in Gaundal’s home-built representative — perhaps with a milk quota of 60,000 litres and an operating building that is so worn out that he is completely dependent on building a new one, with a calculation that says that in order to be able to build properly, it is now possible, under this agreement, that the representative can lift himself with the 40,000 litres and not just increase with a few hundred or thousands of litres per. years through the trading system we've had. It's important to get there. That's why the mix that we're getting now, with the kind of turnover that we're now seeing, is important. It's possible to get a slightly larger volume for those who need to invest and need it. At the same time, it is natural that we are helping to continue the way in which allowances are distributed by allowing all those who are established to receive some increase when applied for it. It would be natural for those with capacity, who have one or two or three booths available for several dairy cows and who have a feeder basis for it, to be also those who have the best economy to be able to buy up a little extra allowances to increase their capacity. I am quite convinced that the turnover that is taking place will essentially lead to some of the established ones increasing their capacity. I think we're going to jump over the idea that the big people and investors in this country are going to have some interest in buying milk quotas. It's probably other things to spend money on that gives a lot higher returns.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e705	A letter from the Landsforening der Nueringsverenigingerne Landsforening, which came to the Committee on Friday, claims that the agricultural holding contains a hidden extra framework in the form of capital return costs of at least 90 million. kr in the form of increased prices. So the dairy farmers get this extra income, while the losses become the industry that is exposed to competition. It also distorts competition with the Find and Q dairies, which calculate prices on the basis of market prices. In the past, TINE, which is a market regulator, has not made any return on capital. That means that the settlement framework increases by 13 pst. My first question to the Council of State is: why does the proposition not show this income to the dairy farmers? And then on page 46 of the proposition, we have the following: «Competitiveness of the competitive food industry is important...The increase in target prices has been achieved by protecting the products that are most relevant to the competitiveness of the food industry.» It is also said that the price of milk for the industrial market does not change. Therefore, will I ask the Council of State how this is compatible with the price increase that industry will receive, as a result of the capital return requirement in TINE?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e719	Let me first confirm that it is right that the agreement, and therefore the proposition and decisions today, leads to an increase in the rates of capital return in the calculations for different milk applications. This leads to an equality between different uses of milk, and there should be an advantage, among other things. the competitors of Tine to establish it. It's not right that this is an increase that goes to the dairy farmers. On the other hand, it could lead to an increase in the purchasing industry and their final products, perhaps, if competition so warrants, and if it is not also clear in the agreement that the industry should not receive a higher milk price for its further processing by providing compensation for it. These very complicated contexts and the numbers that have been swirling in the press around this in the last few days, I think we need to get back to and correct with the correct information, because this is creating a confusing picture. Industry should not be weakened by this scheme, rather on the contrary. Industrial conditions should be improved and farmers should not be given this potential increased price.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e728	The ceiling on area payments has been removed in connection with the agricultural settlement of the year. That means you get the area grant for the entire area. For the first part of the area, it's NOK 6000 in the base deduction. Then you have to ask yourself, does that mean that the first part of the area you produce is less valuable than the last part? Does this mean that the small uses, which take care of cultural landscapes and do their job, do less important jobs than the big ones do? My second question to the Council of State is in the follow-up to what I have mentioned earlier in the debate. There are seven uses per user. day(s) Does the Council of State see any end station? Where is the Government's end point in terms of structuralisation in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e737	It is right that this agreement implements an important principle that all utilised agricultural land makes important cultural landscape contributions. The system of area grants, where grants are now provided for all areas, means that everyone's efforts for the collective benefits are appreciated by providing cultural landscape contributions. I think that is an important principle. Connecting this to the bottom subtraction, as the representative here did, is going to be very wrong, because everyone gets for everything. This is to ensure, inter alia: those who live largely from agriculture, that there will be a bottom-up deduction — that is, it can be said, more for economic reasons that it has been introduced. In the agreement last year it was somewhat reduced. It is the small user team that has been especially concerned with reducing the bottom deduction. They chose not to conclude an appointment this year. So in this debate, so far, there's been a lot of questions about what's the end station. It seems to me that it should be closer to the Minister of the Church to answer such a question than the Minister of Agriculture! I don't feel competent to have any idea about that. But I understand that it's in this: how little use can we get, for example. in milk production, before having to stop? Because it's clear that there has to be such a floor. I remember when I was a newly educated civil agronomist a little over 20 years ago, that we passed just 40,000 dairy farms in Norway, and then many of us thought that we passed a critical mass – we were now in the vicinity of an end station. Now we're discussing the same thing under half. There can be no doubt that we are probably several times closer to the end station now than we were 20 years ago, when I obviously made a mistake in my position compared to 40,000 being such an end station.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e748	For spiritual purposes, the minister of the church is probably the best. For other purposes it is important to talk to the Minister of Transport!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e751	Pushing the responsibility for the spiritual more over to the minister of the church is to avoid the problem a little bit in this context. But we have to get back to that. I have some questions for the Minister of Agriculture relating to the dairy stock exchange, and in particular the combination of the introduction of the dairy stock exchange and an investment scheme that the Minister of Agriculture says should be used to build new and bigger than has been done in the past. One is: does the Minister of Agriculture not see that this can lead to the possibility of being left with new operating buildings that the State has contributed to sponsoring, while having another unutilized production apparatus? So is national money being used to contribute to new buildings and new production equipment in an industry that already has a sufficient production apparatus and that has great potential to make better use of it than today? Is that good use of government money? The second is: does the Minister of Agriculture see that such a milk exchange can be price-driven, and that it can lead to some farmers remaining and having paid so much for the purchase of the quota that the result will be more work, but not necessarily more income for those who have invested such an agricultural minister want them to bet? And the third is: does he see that this combination can lead to an overproduction that we all say we are against – an overproduction that can be at least destructive to the profitability development of the primary producers? Does he see these problems with regard to the combination of the dairy stock exchange and the investment scheme? And does he think that if any of these three issues were to arise, would there be socio-economical and good use of the resources that society has invested in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e767	I understand that the term ‘exchange’ in the central part of the coin is somewhat negative. That's why we chose not to use it, and then it won't be right to use it in this context. Because what are we talking about? Well, we're talking about that because it'll be negotiable for 30 pst. the allowances require a place where the seller and the purchaser can meet. It may be on the advertising pages of the Bondebladt, which is the most important stock exchange in agriculture today, it may be on an Internet page that Tine has for members, between professional brothers, or there may be two producers who meet at a farm team meeting and agree to trade allowances between themselves. That's the stock exchange we're talking about in this context, and I think we should do a lot less dangerous than any of the rhetoric here bears the mark. So the question of a milk exchange can be price-driven, and whether the price can be so high that it is difficult to carry it. We assume that Norwegian farmers are self-employed and are up-and-coming people who set up reasonable calculations before doing a trade. If there's something I'm sure of, it's that the farmers are rational. If there is something I am sure of, it is that at least very few farmers buy something too expensive. At least it's far from the world I know. That's why I trust they'll choose the right production. As regards the possibility of overproduction, it will always be there. The state has a very nice occasion now, since we get a mixed system where the state wants to buy part of the quota, to bring down a necessary part of the milk production if necessary. And then we're going to hope that it doesn't have to. For perhaps the most important contribution, which few have made in the debate, to the fact that there have been many problems in milk production and some pessimism, etc., is precisely that the total volume, the overall market, has fallen over several years, and it has made it several times more difficult to deal with this complex production. But there will be no problem through the part taken by the state to be able to adapt the market in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e776	To follow-up on the freely tradable milk quota: I want the Council of State to say a little about how he intends to monitor that this is taking place under order. If you want to get rid of the quota, you have to convert 30 pst. sail, 70 pst. Take the state. Then I ask, Are we sure that this is financially arranged ratios of about 30 pst? - That's point one. Point 2: Because we have had a lot of milk production, we have also had many dairy plants. The numbers show that we have gone from 337 dairy plants in 1961 to 62 in 2000, and I see that one still shut down dairies, among other things. I know that both the Minister of Agriculture and I are concerned with small-scale production and increased value creation. We've put in place four, five hubs in competence and networking. So my question is, is there any contact, any interaction, between these and those who shut down the small dairies, facilities that could have been used for the type of small scale production? Is there any dialogue at all, or are there two different things?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e783	On the first question, I can assure the representative that, with regard to the marketing of milk quotas, and not least that which will be freely negotiable, we shall ensure that it will take place under economic conditions in the sense that the legislation in place for this purpose will be complied with. I think that this might not be the biggest challenges associated with this. It will be time for the scheme to enter into force, to ensure that this is carried out in the most flexible way possible, least bureaucratically but in a way called ‘economic order’ by the representative here. So to the last question, about dairies. I understand that the problem is that when the dairy sector and Tine rationalise and thereby release plants, it is desirable that they be put into service. It is impossible for me to say in what way a dialogue here might occur, but it will obviously be in the interest of Tine when one leaves a facility, that one gets realized some values for this facility, and that must be the main basis for establishing cooperation in each case. We have good examples of installations being used, for example: further processing of food, in parts of the country where Tine has left previous dairy plants, and completely different uses. But the most important thing is that Tine will be interested in getting a real value out of a plant they leave. That means that those who get there must have an economic activity that makes them able to pay for this, and it should help to bring forward the possibilities that, after all, lie in the rationalization that lead to many old dairies no longer going to be in service, even though we might also approach a kind of end station here, because there are limits to how few dairies it can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e790	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e793	The Labour Party wants to lay the foundation for a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. The main task is to produce safe, high-quality food, but agriculture also has important tasks in addition to this. What would our many settlements look like if agriculture were gone, and what would Norway look like if the villages were destroyed? An active agriculture throughout the country is a prerequisite for Norwegian food production, for food preparation, for living rural areas, for the maintenance of the cultural landscape and not least for Norwegian tourism. So we can't gamble with this important industry, but we have to give it the framework conditions to ensure development and recruitment throughout the country. Today, development is gloomy for the industry, and I feel that we have now come to a point where many ask whether the industry really has a future. No one has to say that this industry has shown no willingness to convert and to make changes, but there is a limit to the extent to which conversion can produce positive effects and the length of increased economies of scale. I feel like we're almost there. Climate and topography cannot change even the Storting, but we can use other instruments. In the newspaper of December last year, there was an article in which economists believed that food could be much cheaper if there were far fewer Norwegian farmers. On the basis of this, a young female farmer at Voss wrote to his rapporteur and spoke about this relationship. Among other things, she wrote\t\t You can ‘More farmers work hard with little pay, so that the animals will be well and that the food will be good. But it is both unfair and demoralizing to listen that we are worth less than others in this society." Yes, this is what is now felt by our important food producers, and it does not give exactly the strength for development and recruitment. In Norway, about 10 pst. the selling price of an agricultural product to reward the holder. In the United States, where agriculture and other activities are super-efficient, 6 pst goes. to pay the farmers. When we know the climate conditions and climate variations in Norway and Norway’s topography, there must be reason to ask whether we can push more efficiency out of the soil and by professionals in this industry without causing irreversible damage. And will Norwegian consumers have an industrial agriculture, as in the United States? I think the answer is no. We who live in Norway have never worked less for food than today. As was said earlier, we work on average 2 hours and 17 minutes to earn a week's food consumption. According to studies, Norway is the third cheapest food country in Europe. My question is then: Isn't it time we focused a little less on price and more on the importance of food quality and safe food supply? I record that around the country both local politicians and others have become more and more concerned with the future of agriculture. Last week I attended a county debate in Troms on agriculture. The opinion was unanimously adopted here, including the following: called for agriculture to be the guarantor of safe and clean food. In addition, reference was made to the importance of good management of land resources and cultural landscapes and the importance of maintaining viable local communities. Similarly, the importance of developing incomes for food producers in line with others in society and of obtaining stable and predictable framework conditions for the agricultural industry was mentioned. I think the county council in Troms has the vast majority of the Norwegian people with them in what they say about the importance of Norwegian agriculture, and what it takes to secure agriculture a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e817	Today's debate on the agricultural agreement has been an interesting debate, but on this debate has been a major contribution to bringing more and more optimism into Norwegian agriculture, I am not quite sure. I think we should take the little extra round around this debate and ask ourselves the question – in relation to those who want to and interest in going into and investing money in Norwegian agriculture: what is it going to do to make them take this risk, take this challenge and this job, if they are not able to imagine an opportunity to make interest and deductions to invest in what has to be a timely and modern Norwegian use today? And then we talk quickly about the amount of two to three million. kr. We cannot meet this debate with so many input and so many cross-cutting considerations and interests that have in common that they cannot be reconciled, and thus just continue the same discussion that we have been going on for 20-30 years in the case of Norwegian agriculture. When I hear they say that we need everyone in Norwegian agriculture today – we need the fish farmer, we need the teacher farmer and we need the PC farmer – we continue the old line that has given it as a final result – partly of those who stand for this position today – that the number of farmers in Norway since 1980 and up to today is halved. And I think almost no matter who has government power, we'll get into a situation -- when we look as far ahead in time as from 1980 to today -- that the number of actors is likely to be halved. Then we don't have to act in such a way that we take the break of the actor who wants to modernise Norwegian agriculture, who wants to invest, who wants to take the promise it is to bet on the future with financial burdens that might give him the opportunity to have a reasonable outcome from his own farm. Whether this would mean spending more on the so-called full-time farmer than the so-called hobby farmer or the combined farmer, I think it's a way to go that's right, but we're not going to go into worn-out terms like industrial agriculture in Norway. Because that's not what we're talking about. When we now have a goal within milk production to get up to a level of approx. 14 cows, this is heaven wide away from what we see is everyday life within normal standards in other countries. Then questions are asked about the Right and the WTO. I think it will also be on this issue to see that WTO policy has not yet been established. If it's ever going to be in this area, I don't know. But what we know is that in March next year the WTO will be discussing issues relating to subsidies and the protection of agriculture, and that so far we are discussing an alliance with the European Union, and perhaps the United States for that matter as well. Today, however, it is clear that this contrasts with our policy of offensive, export-oriented industrial products, such as the United States and Japan. the fishery product is a completely erroneous description. It's just a short cut. Just withdrawn as an additional supplement: we know that in terms of fishing and offensive attitude to exports, we also have relations around the EU and the EEA that are at least as crucial to the importance of this industry as the WTO. So the Progress Party asks questions about what we're achieving, and what we've said in the opposition, and what we're saying in the position. Well, that's the small, but important steps we get in this agreement. There is no doubt – to the representative Hedstrøm – that issues relating to co-operation, tax arrangements, origin marking, branding and amendments to the concession law are moving in the right direction which must also be in line with positions such as: The representative is Hedstrom. Now it's not so unusual that some people turn a little when you come from the opposition to the position. I also record that you quickly and efficiently turn around in program attitudes by sitting in opposition, but don't worry about it. Finally to the Workers' Party, who talk about working approx. two and a half hours per day. week for food. I registered that before the weekend the Workers' Party made a proposal of 9 billion kroner in tax bills. It's interesting that it came at the end of last week, just as far as border protection is concerned. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e834	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President would also draw attention to the fact that the purpose of running lines was to limit the number of 3 minutes because we have a long roadmap today, and we've started so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e839	I hear the President's call. I thought I'd just contribute some informative figures in the debate. When the representative Kristiansen says that we must realistically expect that we will have an agriculture in the future with nearly half of today's actors, it will have to mean, in my calculations, that 30 000 jobs in Norwegian agriculture will be removed. It's a lot of industrial businesses. I don't think anyone in this room would have dared to say anything like that about Norwegian business, that you should deliberately go in to remove 30,000 jobs. For my home country, which has approx. 10 pst. of the agricultural employment in the country, it will mean that approx. 3000 jobs are to be lost. I cannot understand how many of these employees should otherwise be able to operate without having to move. For the food industry, which currently has between 40 000 and 60 000 jobs, this probably means that about half of it is going away, i.e. a place between 20 000 and 30 000 jobs. In such a situation, if you think seriously what you're saying, it's at the same time added up to the fact that the state is going to use its funds to build up larger dairy farms on fewer hands. Thus, the State should subsidise the reduction of jobs in districts and help to build up new and wider use. That's what the representative Kristiansen really says. I ask myself whether he overlooks the consequences of what he has said today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e855	If one's own posts are to be rewritten by the Central Party's nutritionist, it's going to be a little bit of a mistake at best. What I said in my post was that I was missing was more sober. One cannot offer Norwegian farmers today a set of yes – not just to both, but to the whole menu – when one knows how bad this becomes, how unprofessional this becomes, and how those who are actors in Norwegian agriculture will perceive this. What did the representatives of the Central Party say in 1980, when there was 135,000 use? What has been the Centre's contribution to the annual agricultural policy settlements, from 1980 until today? At least one hand has been partly on the steering wheel when it comes to governance and development of the Norwegian community. No sector in this country has been more politically oriented than just Norwegian agricultural policy. No sector has received such liberal financial contributions. There has been relatively broad agreement here in this Chamber, to support Norwegian agriculture, among others. because of our climatic and topographical assumptions. But despite the fact that this sector saw until those degrees were passed, it has been possible to make a half-way from 1980, and with the centre party with one hand on the steering wheel during this period. Then the figure will be 30,000 minors compared to what may develop over the next 30 years, if we continue with this Ole Brumm policy – yes, thank you both.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e870	Marit Arnstad has spoken twice in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e873	I'm going to have a very brief comment. I'm not going to go into more rhetoric about what the Center Party or the Right has done. The centre party takes full responsibility for what we have been involved in agricultural policy, and for what we have proposed, which could have contributed to a strengthening of agricultural policy, but which the Right has voted against. We take full responsibility for that. I'm not going to say anything more about the Right attitude. I'm just going to say that the representative Kristiansen here said we had to count on almost a half of the number of uses. I tried in my post to illustrate what that would actually mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e882	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e898	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e907	The ongoing negotiation of the reprocessing agreement for the year 2002-2003 and the agreement on the recovery of the costs of measures relating to radioactivity in reindeer meat are supported by a large majority in the Stortinget. I thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation. At the same time, I signal to the industry that the Committee is interested, through visits, in becoming more aware of the practitioners and the conditions under which the reindeer operates. All but the Progress Party supports the negotiated agreement. The whole thing does the same thing. The agreement has a total framework of 3.5 million. kr. The majority note that reindeer is a peculiar Sami nourishment, form of life and culture bearer. Cleaning must be secured, developed and strengthened in the future. The majority of the Committee notes that there is a ceiling of 63,700 pure for West Finland, and that the parties will find an upper figure for pure in East Finland. The Committee believes that it is necessary and right to adapt the number of reindeer to the grazing resources available, and to ensure that the process of adapting reindeer numbers to grazing resources is advanced. It is positive that the industry itself, in constructive cooperation with the authorities, is working to bring the reindeer down to a level consistent with the grazing basis, for the Committee wants the reindeer to be viable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. Many of the losses of reindeer are due to predators. In a situation where animal density is too high, there are also animals with poor conditions that are easily replaced by predatory game. The negotiated agreement provides for enhanced cooperation between the environmental protection administrations, the reindeer management and the industry themselves in order to improve the pooling of knowledge on the problems of predators. The Committee also requests that urgent decisions be taken on any right to the killing of severely damaged predators. The Committee has noted that ‘Women in reindeer-farming’ is being continued as a project. This project is to support women's ability to get a natural place in the reindeer industry. This will underline the importance of the Committee. The value creation programme for reindeer activities is passed on and will probably lead to increased value creation for business operators, among others. through local processing for food, for product use and for duodji. There are also proposed changes to the regulations to facilitate a greater degree of traditional reindeer slaughter with more exploitation of all reindeer products as well as increased flexibility and value creation in the reindeer industry. These changes may be made before the slaughter season 2002–2003. The committee also believes that it's positive that there's $12 million set aside. over an operational development fund for the redemption of operational units and other structural measures in districts, with the need for measures and adaptation of the number of operational units and units. This is particularly appropriate in areas with insufficient grazing resources compared to today’s reindeer. The clean-up agreement for 2002-2003 provides an important framework for public participation in reindeer activities, so that the operators can carry out their activities in an environmentally sound, resilient and defensive manner, with an acceptable economic outcome, while at the same time providing us with a softening of the legislation on nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e930	The same principle as the agricultural settlement makes the Workers' Party aware of a negotiated reindeer management agreement. The Labour Party is also involved in the majority comments, and it shows that, with the exception of the Progress Party, there is a strong consensus on the direction the reindeer industry should take. In particular, there is reason to stress strongly that the objective is to be a sustainable industry, both in the ecological and cultural sense. The majority, as the rapporteur said, are very concerned that there is an industry that must stick to the ecological sustainability of nature. In particular, it concerns West Finnmark. I've seen in the media that there are some cases where there is feeding of reindeer with round ball-pressed grass. This suggests that the industry has to take a roof to get the reindeer down to an ecologically sound level. The working party shall assume, as stated in the majority's observations, that the department shall reduce its clean-up to an appropriate level as soon as possible. We stress the need to keep the timetable set. If not, the whole important industry and the cultural part can get into trouble. We can't afford that. St. pp. No 58 for 2001-2002 has a comprehensive chapter on nutrition and predatory issues. An increase in losses due to increased numbers of wild game has caused significant problems to the industry in most pastures, and it is underlined that the high numbers are not acceptable. However, I am stunned when it is used in several places as ‘the alleged’ predators. First one says that the numbers are too large, then to doubt if the numbers are right. It is therefore important, as stated in the proposal, that one should aim at achieving a common understanding as a basis for action and interaction in relation to loss problems. The working party agrees that it is right to pay particular attention to the reindeer industry when the breeding notification on predator management is due in 2003. We see from the agreement that the provision for women-settled measures has been continued by 1 million. kr. That's good, but I'd like to see the funds a little bit more specific in terms of women's actions. I'm not sure if they're targeted enough. It states that the funds are assumed to be used for actions which cannot be financed through existing support schemes but which will have a complementary effect, inter alia. in relation to the value creation programme for the reindeer management. My uncertainty also comes in relation to what Sametinge says about the position of women in the industry – it has been strong, but it is gradually weakened. The woman is subject to the man, as very few women have their own holding. It makes them disappear from the industry. This has a negative impact on the existence of reindeer farming as a traditional Sami industry, and one faces major challenges in making women's position visible. It therefore states that one will stress the need for concrete measures to stimulate and facilitate the participation of women in the industry. Then my question becomes: is this million concrete enough, so that it meets the needs of women? What if the women who are in the industry got to decide? An evaluation of the measures might have been in place. The value added programme is important because one needs to receive more income from meat produced. I see that for example. Nord-Trundellag re gravitational area is reduced meat income one of the reasons for negative development. I said earlier today that food tradition needs to be better ahead of Norwegian tourism and tourism. I remember one who said that Hurtigruta would not be allowed to sail along the coast – by Nordland at least – if it was not served reindeer and the almond pot as part of the menu. I do not know if it is a way to go, but if this is not profiled well, nobody will use Norwegian food either. Reindeer meat produced in Norwegian nature should at least have the best conditions to reach acceptable prices. These were some brief features of an overall agreement, which a large majority recommend the adoption of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e958	This time, too, during the treatment of the reindeer management agreement, we have only to note that the objective of sustainability has not come any closer at all. The outcome of the negotiations has not been achieved. This means that the Minister of Agriculture has major challenges in this area. We are not closer to a balance in the ecosystem. The purity figure is still too high in relation to the grazing basis. It goes beyond the slaughter weight, it goes beyond profitability, and it's also a contribution to the high levels of predators, which are extremely high. It's also a relationship that the new government really has to deal with. It is also a challenge to create greater confidence in local reindeer management, while at the same time ensuring that responses to crime are strengthened. To achieve the objective of value creation, a few new rounds must be taken in relation to product development and marketing. This will be an important contribution in order to create a greater basis for increased value creation in and around the Norwegian reindeer industry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e967	It is suggested that the Progress Party takes a completely different view of large parts of the reindeer policy than the other parties. We believe that this industry must be treated more equally to other industrial activities and that public responsibility must be reduced so as to limit itself to sensible resource and environmental management. As we see it, the grant and regulation schemes, as they are reflected in the annual reindeer agreements, the reindeer management law and in other contexts, have worked against their purpose. Because of state incentives with the reindeer as a bet area, we were created a few years ago an optimism that caused many young people to enter the reindeer industry, to bet fresh and to have expectations. Increased transfers were given on the legs a significantly higher number of professionals than the nutritional basis was intended, resulting in too many animals and degradation of nature. Although sams are granted special rights based on ethnic origin for reindeer farming of approx. 40 pst. of the total land area in this country, the reindeer surveys are struggling with the economy. Although sums have been allocated in the hundreds of millions to a conversion programme, it has failed because it has laid the basis for a passivating social security for healthy and employed people instead of contributing to active job creation in the areas concerned. Until now, policy-specific measures have contributed to economic and environmental problems rather than to solving them. As far as the economy is concerned, the proposition mentions how bad conditions really are. The average income level of the industry as a whole is SEK 71 000 and DKK 117 000 per person, respectively. annual work and holding. In all reindeer pastures in North Norway, with a few exceptions, costs are higher than production income. That's what it's been for some years. It is therefore not reasonable to continue with an economic policy which, in experience, does not work. We have always viewed the reindeer as the self-employed who will work best within a market-based system that stimulates the necessary reduction of the flock compared to the available resources. Then we will achieve a slimming down of the industry while the remaining jobs become safer and less dependent on public support. If this industry is treated more equally with other industrial activities and public liability is reduced, the reindeer industry will have positive development opportunities for those who continue in the profession. The market will provide answers to the number of holdings, professionals and clean facilities available and which can ensure a sustainable livelihood for the reindeer family. The size has long pointed out the importance of better adapting the purity to the grazing basis. These conditions have been considered continuously since the Stortinget treated St.meld. No 28 for 1991-92, A sustainable reindeer, for approx. 10 years ago. It has been said that it is important to intensify this work and that it will be done through cooperation with reindeer workers by setting an upper reindeer figure for each district. Nevertheless, these problems continue to have a significant scale. Clean-up has been tried hard. But it is important that not other things, such as predatory animal problems and pressures against land base from other user groups, remove the focus from the reindeer question. Therefore, measures should now be put in place as soon as possible to reduce the purity to an ecologically sound level. A cycle has been completed in which the adjustment to the fixed reindeer number for each summer grazing district in the West-Finland reindeer pasture area is to be realised by 1 April 2005. The progress party is skeptical that it needs to take so long because the problems have been known for a long time. Sensitivity means that it will take even more years for the low pastures to build up. Therefore, we will speed up this process by at least one year. Today we have approx. 240 active holdings in West Finland and approx. 1310 people linked to the industry. In the work to be done, it is essential to reduce the total clean-up rate in a district but to allow the remaining holdings to bear the economic capacity. Therefore, these measures should not take the form of a ceiling per head. the holding in a way that produces small units with a vulnerable economy. A development in this direction will bring the reindeer industry forward by developing more robust units. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e984	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e987	SV is also pleased that a negotiated reindeer management agreement has been reached. I think in many contexts the importance of reindeer has been underestimated. We know that in addition to the fact that it is an important industry for a group, it is essential that we take care of a culture. We have Sami culture all over the country, and especially in Central Norway and Hedmark we have the Southern Sami culture, which is very marginal. And for that culture to continue, you're totally dependent on having an active and good reindeer. There are two aspects I want to point to. The first thing goes on the conditions at Finnmarkswirdda. It is very important, in our opinion, that we now take this seriously, both the authorities and the industry, so that we can now balance as quickly as possible what the grazing basis can withstand by the number of pure. As far as I understand it, you are doing well, but I would like to stress from this speaker that it is very important that this happens. The second relationship I want to comment on is on the value creation program. We got a good presentation in the committee of what opportunities you have if you can get to slaughter clean in a more flexible way. You can actually double the income from pure slaughter in the mountains. That is why we are very pleased that the Committee will now open up a more liberal way of slaughtering clean, so that we can take advantage of the opportunities that lie there. But I would like to stress that in that it is not that one should sort of go along with animal welfare. But based on the experience we know from the reindeer, we know that this can be handled in a way that also makes it acceptable from an animal welfare perspective. Both in terms of the industry's seas and in relation to the tourism industry, I believe that offering more products of pure meat and offering reindeer meat slaughtered in the mountains will be an advantage that will allow you to get more out of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1002	Purification is carried out in large parts of the country and under different conditions and framework conditions. The challenges are many and complex. Nevertheless, there should be no doubt that the objective is to facilitate a viable reindeer operation within the framework set by the resource base. In many ways, sanitation as an industry, culture and way of life are unique in both national and international contexts. It therefore deserves positive attention and focus on framework conditions to ensure, develop and strengthen the industry. Ensuring, developing and strengthening the reindeer industry poses challenging challenges for both industry and management. I am therefore pleased that the Business Committee is in line with the Government's policy. Stable framework conditions for the reprocessing industry are a necessary condition for ensuring safety and predictability. It is a fact that reindeer operators carrying out their reindeer operations in areas where the framework conditions are laid down have better profitability than practitioners where such fundamental issues are unsolved. Today, the situation of large areas of reindeer farming in Finnmark is worrying, with low production, slumped low pastures, large predatory losses and constant interventions leading to an increased fragmentation of the grazing land of reindeer farming. In order for reprocessing to have a safe future in these areas, it is important that the framework conditions are established and complied with. In this respect, I am pleased that the Reinhriftstyrelsen has now established an upper reindeer figure for the summer pasture districts in the West-Finland reindeer grazing area of 63,700 reindeer. I have noticed that the Committee has a great deal of attention to the resource situation in Finnmark, and is concerned that the reindeer come down to an ecologically sound level as soon as possible. I can assure the Committee that this is an objective I share. In this respect, I would like to point out that the reindeer management of the revised national budget has been given increased funding so that this process can get moving quickly, and that the management is now establishing a project office that will focus only on this task. At the same time, like the Committee, I would like to stress that it is important that the industry now takes responsibility and reduces the reindeer so that sustainability can be restored in the industry. I am concerned that measures are being implemented limiting predatory losses to an acceptable level in all grazing areas. Close cooperation between environmental and agricultural authorities has been established, while emphasising the strengthening of the dialogue with the reindeer industry on predatory game issues. I have good faith that this will lead to more flexible management in this area. I've noticed the Committee's focus on the condition of cleanness and the relationship with predatory loss, and the importance of getting the reindeer number on a sustainable level. I am pleased that the Committee points out that the value creation programme is an important measure to ensure positive economic and ecological development in the industry. I am committed to facilitating industry to take advantage of its traditional knowledge and increase the diversity of products in a way that ensures positive development. The aim must be to enable reindeer operations, as far as possible, to stand on their own feet. It is a good social economy – and should stimulate the individual exercise. In addition to the agreement itself, the final protocol to the agreement agrees that the grants from the reindeer management agreement addressed to holdings and domestic legumes should be designed in such a way as to stimulate real, market-oriented production and value creation. In this context, the contracting parties have entrusted the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research with the task of reviewing these schemes and making proposals for conversion. I see the need for a conversion that will stimulate, as far as possible, a clean-up operation that aims at market production and value creation, while at the same time respecting essential requirements for sound distribution of income. I look forward to following up on further work, which here represents important choices in the use of the financial instruments, and I am pleased that the Committee has noted this as very positive. Finally, I would like to stress that we need to find solutions to the resource challenges. In this work, common understanding of reality between the various actors is a crucial prerequisite. This requires a high level of knowledge among policy-makers and authorities on the different aspects of reindeer management and on change processes and causes. For the industry, a significant degree of transparency will be necessary. The same applies to an understanding that other social interests also form part of the framework conditions for industry and the preconditions for development. It is only through joint efforts and cooperation that we have the opportunity to achieve the goals set. Purity must take responsibility and involve itself constructively in the ongoing processes. It is only in that way that reindeer management can be taken seriously and in practice realize the special protection they have received through the Constitution and the rules of international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1026	Politicians from this pulpit this year after year — including in this debate — have pointed out that it is not possible to adapt the number of pure to the grazing base. I believe that it is urgent to start a process – through specific decisions in this room. The Progress Party is solely concerned with a proposal in the position to carry out this process by saying that the reindeer should decrease to the required reindeer number – to 63,700 reindeer, as the Council of State said, on summer pastures in West Finland – but one year earlier, i.e. from 1 April 2004. I had hoped that a majority in the Biggest would go in to provide such a process. We've got a letter from the department that suggests that this reindeer, 63,700, is too high, and that it can be lower, maybe down to 40,000. Would it not then make sense to speed up the process and get down to this figure, 63,700, for West Finland, 1 April 2004 – a year earlier – and then, as the department wants, one year later go a step further and perhaps reach the real figure of 40,000 in order to achieve the ecological balance? We know that there is a deserting of Finnmark's vastness, and that it may take decades to reverse the negative environmental process that we have experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1036	The situation on the Finnmarkswiss is serious. Something has to happen, and it has to happen as soon as possible. When it is necessary to reduce the purity, it is important that this is done in such a way as to ensure that the reindeer’s own operators, organisations, etc. is in that process. The alternative must have been to use a kind of power that is unacceptable in our society. At the same time, it is important to stress – and I think it will be noticed after this debate – that there is a considerable pressure from the Stortinge that something has to be done now and that it has to happen as soon as possible. In this area, I agree with the representative of Hedstrøm. That's why we've chosen to organise around the reduction of the reindeer number, among other things. through an increased allocation in the revised national budget, entered into settlements with, inter alia: Party of the representative Hedstrøm, which now makes it possible to put pressure on this. I can assure both the representative Hedstrøm and Stortinget that I am very concerned that we are now able to maintain the pace – at least – to which this has been set up, and that it cannot be accepted by Stortinget that the practitioners of the reindeer industry are not now following up these projects that we are undertaking. In that case, we have to evaluate a harder line, which we want to avoid. Let this be a raised index finger, which the representative Hedstrøm, signed and the rest of the Storting today certainly agree is necessary to report from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1047	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3230]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1065	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1072	The representatives Øystein Hedstrøm, Ulf Erik Knudsen and Lodve Solholm have in Document No. 8:97 put forward the following proposal: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the removal of existing provisions relating to the annual concession obligation for all-year-old dwellings.’ Now we could have had an amazing debate on the housing obligation. However, during the work on the matter, the Business Committee asked for an evaluation of the proposal by the Minister of Agriculture. In his reply of 2 May this year, it appeared that the Ministry planned to submit to the hearing a number of proposals for amendments to the concession law and that one of these changes was related to the obligation to live. As noted in the comments, the Committee has subsequently been informed by the Government Parties that the proposals were sent out at the hearing on 15 May this year. As a result, the majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party, has chosen to await the debate on housing until, if necessary, a matter arises from the Government. As this is a debated matter, cf. the recent debate, and the fact that the matter has now been put to the hearing, we are not proposing to endorse the proposal of the Progress Party. Since it is therefore not known how the majority would deal with the issue of housing, as rapporteur on the matter, I will not go in and discuss the obligation of living or one. The majority have also agreed that since it is such a broad majority, the case rapporteur is to have the floor in the case, and the other parties, except the Progress Party, refrain from taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1089	That sounds effective!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1092	A change in the scope of the concession law in 1983 gave the municipalities the possibility to introduce a local regulation on the concession obligation in the case of acquisitions relating to immovable property which are or have been used for annual residence. Over the years, this legislation has helped to create major problems for the local population. Although the law has certainly had a good intention, none of us has been unable to record the negative consequences and effects of this legislation through a significant number of media projections. The Progress Party will claim that this whole system has been dismantled, because it does not help to ensure permanent settlement to the extent that politicians want and have wanted, but rather creates disunity, unfriendliness, spectralism and poor living environment in many of the areas where the obligation to live is imposed. We would therefore argue that the system of accommodation should be abolished as soon as possible. It's becoming increasingly unrealistic to think that you can force a lot of people to live in a place that suits political authorities. Professor Normann Aanesland and his colleague Olaf Holm have produced a study on the economic and social consequences of housing, which has been adopted in 76 Norwegian municipalities, mainly in the East and South. The conclusions are clear: no one can claim that the economic benefits of housing are greater than the disadvantages of the municipalities in question. There is no doubt that ‘the obligation to live is a public theft in the billions’, states the two researchers. They also describe how the housing obligation works, and how the intentions behind the introduction of the dwelling obligation are circumvented. Examples of local hostility, specicism, and great economic losses are taken into account in the wake of the obligation to live. Today’s Economy estimated that the loss for the housing owners in Lillesand municipality alone was DKK 1.94 billion. Distributed on Lillesand's snaue, 9 000 inhabitants average the loss to nearly a quarter of a million dollars per year. head. I agree with the researchers in the description they give of the situation. This is actually a real loss for society, because housing reduces property values so much. In addition, there are a number of other unintended effects of the housing obligation. Many people stay on farms they would have sold if they were not obliged to live. This money would in many cases have been reinvested in the community. In the case of compulsory residence, this does not happen to a great extent. The commuting is increasing, which is real economically unfortunate. Furthermore, we experience that investments in residential property are getting lower than if they were leisure properties. Researchers suggest that housing can function in some small communities, but for most municipalities it does not. We believe that the municipalities first have to ask themselves whether there is a majority of residents in the population, then whether there is a willingness for someone to lose their wealth without any kind of compensation. And further: Will the municipalities really have a community of people who are in control of where people sleep at night? It's also a question of whether the economic benefits are greater than the disadvantages. Is it, for example, that in Lillesand Municipality, which is very much mentioned in this context? The study from Anesland and Holm shows that there is the opposite that is the case. The party of progress believes that the experience with the municipality of residence is that housing creates more problems than it solves. My clear opinion is that the whole system of both concessional and compulsory residence has so many weaknesses in itself that it should be liberalised or abolished in its entirety. A concession law that allows local politicians to exercise almost coercive residence and ultimately force people to sell their private property, we will characterize as the most inappropriate public intervention in a democratic country. Housing and concessional legislation also creates a significant bureaucracy with consequential problems in the population. One might be tempted to ask: Should it not be that any democratic country should respect private property rights and allow the inhabitants of the country to decide freely where they want to live or own a dwelling? In this case, it is only the Progress Party which in practice shows respect for what should be completely natural democratic rights and freedoms. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is referred to in the vote. Since it is not a reply, I would also like to raise a day-to-day matter from the web. The nation and today's business informs us that ESA is engaged in living and working, and that there may be a case in international bodies. So if the Council of State is going to have the word, it could be good to get his comments on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1118	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1121	Since Stortinget has many things and a long day today, I shall limit my contribution to first expressing my agreement with the majority conclusion that is underlying today. There is today a draft consultation that is now certainly being debated in many parts of our society, about the concession law and about housing issues, and we will have ample opportunity to discuss these issues on a later occasion. With regard to the specific question from the representative Hedstrom, I would like to say that the department has received two letters, where ESA asks a number of questions related to the content of the concession law. These questions are therefore aimed at clarifying information which would give ESA reason to criticise the rules. The ministry has answered the questions and is now awaiting ESA's assessments, and we have reason to believe that they will be ready once in the autumn. In addition, the Ministry has received a notification from ESA that some have filed a complaint against a decision on the compulsory residence of an agricultural property. The Ministry has asked for the complaint to be sent, but ESA has not yet sent it to the Ministry. Let me add that the Government is considering, as was the case when we entered into the EEA Agreement in 1994, that the rules we have in this area do not discriminate between Norwegian citizens and EEA citizens, and that it is therefore possible to maintain this legislation within the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1128	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3231]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1144	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1155	In June 1994, Stortinget passed the Act on the Medical Use of Biotechnology. The law was to be valid for the medical use of human biotechnology and replaced by Law 12 June 1987 No. 68 on artificial fertilisation. The purpose of the law is as follows: ‘The aim of this Act is to ensure that the medical use of biotechnology is exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. This shall be done in accordance with principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity and without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on the ethical standards enshrined in our Western cultural heritage.» This purpose paragraph was a collective social committee behind when the law was passed, and I am happy to say that there is a collective social committee that still adheres to the purpose of the law. Regardless of the point of view of the content of the law itself, it must also be right to say that there is a clear force that there is a law in this area. The law is forward-looking, and it ensures ethical guidelines to deal with where to find these guidelines within a legal framework. This isn't obvious. Not all countries have a law in this area, and in some countries there will still be uncertainties in this area that we have debated several times in this Chamber, and which we have been legislated on already in 1994. The Biotechnology Act contains regulatory provisions relating to a number of areas. One is artificial fertilization. The majority have consistently used the term ‘assisted fertilisation’ in this review and, in the view of the rapporteur, when promoting the law again, consider not to use the term ‘assisted fertilisation’ instead of ‘artificial fertilisation’. Furthermore, the law contains formulations and legal regulations related to preimplantation diagnostics. In the debate here today, we will see that this is one of the issues on which there are different views and which we will touch on more closely. The same applies to postnatal diagnostics, as the law also regulates, as do postnatal genetic studies. In the case of the two areas related to foetal diagnostics, ultrasound in particular will be an area where there may be different views in the Committee and where there is a need for regulation. As regards postnatal genetic studies, I would like to elaborate on the views relating to outreach genetic guidance. The law also regulates gene therapy and control of the law itself. I want to draw out some things in the original law as it existed here. There was regulation of the conditions for the use of donor semen. Insemination could be used, but not in the case of in vitro fertilisation. The sperm donor should have the right to remain anonymous, and there were also demands on the form of living; the woman should be married or should be cohabiting with a man in marital relations. A condition was laid down for the examination of the fertilised egg before implantation, i.e. a regulation of the conditions for so-called preimplantation diagnosis. The very concept of ‘preimplantation diagnosis’ was also defined in the law as a genetic examination of a fertilised egg before it was introduced into the uterus. In the case of a serious genital heritable disease, it would be lawful to examine the semen prior to use under certain conditions. Fertilised eggs were allowed back to the woman from which they were derived only. It was established that there should be a ban on research on fertilised eggs. The use of foetal diagnostics was regulated by a ban on sex information prior to the end of the 12th week of gestation using ultrasound. Genetic investigations after birth were regulated with high emphasis on privacy and the use of gene therapy was regulated. In connection with that we have dealt with the law and evaluated it, I have looked at the constellations in 1994, when the original law and the wording I referred to were adopted. It's interesting to see that the constellations are still essentially the same between the different parts. The political dividing lines may not be traditional along a political axis, but the political parties have much the same view today as they had at the time. At the Committee's examination, the Committee has made it clear that it is necessary to allow germ cells, i.e. fertilised eggs, to be frozen for five years, while it was three years earlier. It is far different from what the Government proposed. It is also permitted that unfertilised eggs may be frozen, because today's technology allows it to be frozen without damaging the egg. Research on unfertilised eggs is also permitted. It is recommended that the Government arranges for autotransplantation of ovaries and ovaries. It was a problem as the technology did not allow it when it came to ovarian tissue in 1994, but it is a current method. But the assumption of the majority is that the tissue should be returned to the woman from whom the tissue is derived. This is an issue that is relevant in connection with, for example: cancer treatment, where germ cells may be irradiated, or cell poisons and various treatments where genital tissue may be damaged may be experienced. Pre-treatment withdrawals and subsequent re-introduction may allow a woman who would otherwise have become sterile to still have children. The majority consists of the Governmental Parties, SV and the Centre Party, and they agree that there should still be a ban on egg and egg tissue transplantation to a woman other than that from which the tissue was obtained, on the basis of the principle of a clear definition of biological origin, without distinction between biological mother and so-called uterus. A majority of all parties outside the Workers' Party are in favour of an anonymous sperm donation, but that the donor should be known, and that one should have the right to know his biological origin. The right to use semen donor shall also be the law of in vitro fertilisation, not only by insemination, the Committee shall be in favour. The Committee also asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of semen banks at approved treatment institutions and to carry out an information campaign that may be of interest to national donors to such banks. The ICSI method — intracytoplasmic sperm injection, for which the abbreviation stands — has been a testing scheme in Norway, while it has been an approved permanent scheme in some other countries. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, are in favour of maintaining the system as a testing scheme until the Government finds it possible to approve it on a permanent basis. A good number of studies are currently being conducted on the method in Norway to see whether there may be any deviation from that method versus the traditional in vitro fertilisation method. The majority consider it reasonable to be sure that there will not be an increased risk of deviation in the foetus until a final approval is granted. The majority also believe that no authorisation should therefore be granted for the collection of semen from testicles or bit testicles until it is certain that the basic method itself is a safe method. So it's going to be the government that decides when these methods, if any, are to be approved on a permanent basis. In addition, the majority, consisting of government parties, the Centre Party and the SV, are in favour of continuing the ban on research on surplus fertilised eggs. The Workers' Party and the Advance Party enter in order to remove the prohibition. The two batches propose that research be allowed on surplus fertilised eggs and that therapeutic cloning be allowed. In the rest of my post, I intend to spend time going into part of the argument for what's the majority's view. I assume that the arguments of the minority will be duly made visible by the Labour Party and the Advance Party. With regard to the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs, we know that it is one of the most debated issues in the media, and perhaps one of the most important issues related to the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. SV has consistently had the view that life is also a requirement for protection in its inception, and that it should not be a means of life for others, but a goal in itself. That view is shared by the government parties and by the Center Party. If the unfertilised egg in its further cell division is to be researched, that principle will be broken. The Committee has little impact on self-determined abortion law when discussing that position. I record that the Progress Party has been involved in this in a note. But it is quite conscious of me – as the rapporteur-in-Office – that I have not come into this. But I notice that someone is connecting the two issues. It is said that when you can go in for the law of self-determined abortion, a logical consequence of that is that you allow research on fertilized eggs, because then you have removed the legal protection for unborn life until the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, as the Progress Party describes it in its remark. Here there may be different views among the different parties that make up the majority, but I would say from my point of view that it would be like to equate research on the fetus with the woman's right to decide for herself her own pregnancy, I think it would be a wrong connection. It's going to be a short ending. In my view, the law is trying to force a woman to carry out a pregnancy, to appear to be very difficult. On the other hand, it must be quite reasonable to regulate what kind of rights and obligations should apply, linked to research into a life in its beginning. There are two different issues. It will also be seen that the majority of the Committee considers that, where the interests of mother and foetus are to be balanced, the consideration of mother is to be given more weight. I don't want to use it as an argument, because I know that there are different views in the different parties in terms of self-determined abortion law. However, this kind of balance will still be possible in pregnancy, while research on a fertilised egg is not available. In the case of preimplantation diagnostics, the majority of the Committee – all parties outside the Labour Party and the Progress Party – have been asked to consider the legislative formulations as per. the date is applicable. The reason for this is that such formulations are to be understood today, there is a theoretical possibility of carrying out that type of diagnosis. But because today it is considered to be research methods, one will still not be able to do so. When the majority do not accept research on fertilised eggs, a logical consequence will be that methods accepted by the majority are not used either. It is therefore appropriate to look at and, where appropriate, amend the law in this area. I would like to point out that the preimplantation diagnostics concept regulates the fertilised egg. So it doesn't regulate the seat. In the case of a serious sexually transmitted disease, you can imagine that you will be able to look at the semen and thus regulate it without going into pre-implantation diagnostic methods. But there's something we'll have the opportunity to come back to when the government makes its proposal to change the law. Here, to the extent that the majority of the Committee is different from that of the Government. The government argues so far that one could have kept the law as it is, while giving feedback that it should look at a change in law here. I have noticed that there has been a major discussion about foetal diagnostics and the use of ultrasound in pregnancy. I also record that the minority – members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Progress Party – ‘It is also a paradox that the Government of the notification provides a practice in which it is not intended to examine, diagnose and, where appropriate, treat the foetus, which one would not be able to accept in relation to the life of the child’. I cannot, with my best will – and the majority cannot, with their best will – see that what the Government has proposed with the regulation of the use of ultrasound in pregnancy should be not to give the opportunity to ‘investigate, diagnose and possibly treat the foetus’, rather to the contrary. The aim must be to ensure the health of pregnant women as well as of the foetus in pregnancy and to ensure the quality of ultrasound examinations in order to ensure that they are carried out. I assume that the minority will elaborate on this comment, because I cannot find that there is a basis for that kind of wording based on what the Government has presented. The majority of the Committee emphasises the very intention of using ultrasound as an aid to pregnancy and that information should not be withheld. The Committee has also discussed the use of post-natal genetic testing. A majority of the Committee is aware that non-consenting genetic guidance should not be used. The possibility of continuing family surveys requires that the individual has given his/her support to it after having been examined himself and that the obligation of professional secrecy is not broken. It has been asked that the Government look at the wording of the Biotechnology Act today, in the light of the changes made in 2000. I see my time goes out. I have had to shorten my post a bit, but I will come back to some details later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1224	It may be difficult to understand what the rapporteur and the government parties really think about ultrasound testing, and the extent to which it is reduced. Following an article in the evening post a few days ago, and based on the presentation of the rapporteur, a few impressions may be that the notification, and the majority of the committee, do not constitute a significant restriction in such a way that health professionals, such as today, are able to inform and assess the findings of ultrasound examinations. Ultrasonics are currently being used as a routine study at 16–18. week. At the same time, approx. 40 pst. in pregnant women for various reasons of ultrasound examinations earlier in pregnancy, and then in the case of a health care professional. It is unclear whether such studies should continue to be provided by midwives and doctors in the context of pregnancy control, and what responsibility these personnel have for information and guidance. In order to clarify what the majority believes, can the rapporteur define whether the majority view involves a narrowing? And in case it does, what exactly does this contraction consist of? What are health professionals doing today, and what studies are being conducted today, which will be modified in the light of the majority view?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1231	In the case of the voluntary pregnancy survey, it is quite precise in the position of the majority: ‘... this service will be freely available by all healthcare professionals for as long as it is professionally sound.’ This means that in practice there will be no restrictions related to the study, as expressed by the majority. As the minority – members of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party – express it, however, the study is limited, because you write: ‘... health professionals who have the competence to conduct the screening study during weeks 16 to 18 must also have the competence to assess any foetal abnormalities and, where available, be able to provide the pregnant woman and her related appropriate information...’» What has been a point for the majority has been that it is not necessary to impose such strict professional requirements on the person conducting the voluntary study that it will be very limited who has the professional qualifications. On the other hand, if you make as strict demands as the minority here makes, you could limit that study. There has been a point to narrow down, which is precisely the possibility of the higher specialised survey. In other words, if there is a suspicion of foetal abnormalities or of any miscarriage that may have therapeutic consequences, the professional content of this study must be ensured. This means that the first instance should not be responsible for this investigation unless it has the professional qualifications. In my view and in the view of the majority, that is a reasonable restriction, because it is in the same way that the health care system is built up: if there is a need for specialist skills in some areas, you should refer to the specialist and not carry out the further measures yourself. There's no other constraint in it than that. It also means that an approval system is attached to the body that will then conduct the investigation. So in concrete terms, it could mean that the gynecological department needs to secure someone who has a high level of ultrasonic competence to get approval. There will probably be most gynecological wards in the country that have it, so no dramatic restriction on the availability of ultrasound examinations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1246	The case rapporteur, Olav Gunnar Ballo, writes in a majority opinion in his capacity as follows: ‘The majority believe that an opening for research on surplus fertilised eggs could contribute to the collection of more eggs than those needed for in vitro fertilisation in order to have eggs left over for research.’ This is a very serious claim, and an insinuation against our professionals who are engaged in artificial fertilization. My question to the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo is: does the representative really have any reason to write this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1258	In the case of eggs to be used for in vitro fertilisation, the need for eggs to be able to make the woman pregnant does not mean that there is a risk of conflicting conditions. Then you just want to take out the number of eggs that it will need. As technology improves, the number of eggs can be reduced, and you can reduce the number of eggs that are fertilized, because you just don't need more. But it is clear that at the moment you make a device in the law that the eggs being extracted, in theory, should serve two purposes: one that they should be fertilized for return, and the other that they should also have the purpose of serving the research, it is quite obvious – and I would draw it so far as to say that you have to be direct naive if you don't see it – that such a contrasting relationship could lead to the extraction of more eggs. I would say that, as a national Parliament, we will be naïve if we do not regulate it, so that the researchers themselves do not have to determine the premises for this. It is quite clear that the representative Alvheim and I have quite different views on what the research could do if they were given too free hands in this area. I have absolutely reason to believe that one would extract more eggs than strictly necessary if one did not regulate the possibility of doing so. So yes, I think that research will go as fast as it can, and that we actually have to set the limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1268	I still find it difficult to understand what the majority actually sees as the future ultrasound surveys, and what is the difference with the ones that are today. One could, according to the rapporteur's statement, get a feeling that there was a subordination of the investigations and the guidance made by today's health professionals. I believe that both women and health professionals are satisfied and feel secure about the guidance and information they receive from ultrasonic studies today. I would like to ask whether it is the case that the rapporteur and the majority believe that the healthcare professionals who have given, and who have given, guidance and information for a longer period of time, do not have sufficient competence? And if that's how this is going to change, what is it that concrete – because I didn't get a response to that, I feel – is going to be out of the way that today's health professionals do of research, information and guidance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1275	I understand that the representative Hildeng asks a very specific question: Do I think – others in the majority have to answer for their part – that there are health professionals who are currently implementing ultrasound, who do not have the necessary competence to implement it? To that I will answer a clear yes. There are a number of health professionals who are currently conducting ultrasound examinations, which should not have done so at all. Ultrasonic studies have been carried out in the hands of general practitioners for many years in this country – I myself have conducted ultrasound examinations at a time when the technology was new and where it was used for example. to see if there was foetal activity in case of suspicion of spontaneous abortion. In part, we used ultrasound examinations to look at the cross-section of the head to assess the termination. I think I have to say in retrospect that part of the investigations we carried out at the time, we should have left to the specialist, and it should not even have been purchased in general practice. Unfortunately, this is the case around some places today. This means ensuring the quality of the voluntary survey, as the majority have stated. Of course, it must not create a false security for the pregnant woman and her family. This is what Britt Hildeng here says, that the woman feels safe, not a measure of real security. It may well be that many feel safe without necessarily having competence from the investigator. For this reason, the majority of people express two things here: one is the need to ensure the quality of the study to be carried out in case of suspicion of foetal abnormalities, which is good enough for quality. Can't there be anything wrong in that? Shouldn't we be concerned about the quality of the health care system? The second thing that the majority point out is that we also need to ensure the quality of the voluntary survey. One thing is that we accept that those who carry out this study per. to be able to do so for the time being, but at the same time it must be of greater quality over time. One might go into a discussion about the quality of the use of words in terms of health professionals, but our task is to ensure that that quality is improved in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1283	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1286	The development of biotechnology and the medical use of it opens up new areas of knowledge and new opportunities for deterring nature’s secrets. Now, as so many times before, when knowledge barriers break down, development meets with resistance and fear of the new. Already in the Old Testament, man was warned against knowledge – treed in the garden of Eden. Don't eat of the wood of knowledge, the God of Adam – because in knowledge, the germ lay to the fall of sin. When man conquered knowledge, he lost his innocence. But with knowledge also came man's liberation and ability to conquer nature. The fall also meant that man had the ability to separate right from wrong, evil from good. But man's release also involves a moral responsibility for his actions, and thus a responsibility to use knowledge for man's best. The government, on the basis of ethical considerations, wants to adopt a precautionary approach to this knowledge development in order to prevent the sorting society. The government's leading principle of goods is clarified by a series of laws that will limit our knowledge development in a field that will have a major impact on the quality of life of individuals. But also relinquishing or holding back knowledge involves ethical dilemmas, and can be understood as an assault on those people who could have helped a better life. We agree with the Government that genetic engineering is facing new dilemmas, and we are humiliating to the fact that these are difficult questions. But we cannot, through prohibition, free ourselves from ethical dilemmas. These must be solved through attitudes based on humanistic values and fundamental respect for human dignity and the individual's right to a worthy life. The fear of the sorting society is described, and the misuse of knowledge can lead to such a scenario. But for me, the total absence of questions about the development of attitudes and practices in relation to people with disabilities becomes a crossroads of thought. Disabled people today face daily discrimination and systematic exclusion from participation in society because it is not facilitated or made possible. In practice, this becomes an element of mind-building that we should all feel a responsibility to do something about. Through biotechnology, we are confronted with choices we have never had before. This is largely solved by the government through a ban line. However, these elections have such great consequences for everyone that the elections cannot be made by researchers, politicians or political majority formations alone. The choices must be made in transparency and dialogue. They must be based on widely accepted values and rules of play as well as understanding and understanding of the opportunities and risks of technology. Biotechnologies must be applied in the best interests of human beings and society and the living nature. There are high expectations of future gene therapy options. Provisional use is made at an experimental stage. However, research is intense all over the world, and the hopes for what it can mean are great, and one sees opportunities to treat incurable diseases, such as: Parkinson and Alzheimer. The approximation of these treatment options is based on stem cell research. Stem cell lines may be developed on the basis of adult stem cells, on the basis of fertilised eggs and on the basis of somatic nuclear transplantation. The government is proposing a ban on both research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning. The Labour Party opposes such bans, and believes that, like most other countries, we need to stimulate this research to provide opportunities to cure serious diseases. The ban line of the government parties, I understand, is based on a belief that life begins at the time of conception, and that the fertilized egg has its own human wood. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party administers today's abortion legislation, and has for many years accepted the destruction of surplus eggs. For the Workers' Party, the starting point is that each human being is unique and irreplaceable. Man can never be regarded as a means. Man is a measure in himself, and can never be attributed to different values regardless of the varying characteristics of the individual. So the question is, when does human life arise, and when does the development of human beings occur, the state that gives us objective protection as individuals and as human beings? I would argue that there is a difference between a fertilized egg – an embryo, a cell block – and a born human being. We also have a tradition of not considering a fertilized egg as a new life with demands for objective legal protection, since we have destroyed abundantly fertilized eggs for many years. For us, the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs appears to be problematic double standards, as we use the results of such research from other countries. Had we not used this research, we could not have helped women seeking help for their or their husband's inability to reproduce. It must also be a cross of thought that while we're going to say yes to the possibilities that stem cell research opens up to give living people a better life, we're going to ban research that can lead us there. Like the majority of the Biotechnology student, the working party is in favour of opening up research on fertilised eggs. We are also in favour of somatic nuclear transplantation, or as something more tendingly called therapeutic cloning. In recent years, we have developed offers for the treatment of involuntary childlessness. Involuntary childlessness is a disease, a disability or an sequelae of a disease – which is believed to affect between 10 and 15 pst. by the young population. It is therefore of great importance that Norway has satisfactory treatment options for this. However, Norway has very strict rules for such treatment, which means that methods offered in other countries are not part of the Norwegian treatment provision. These restrictions are perceived as unreasonable, but the experience of unfairness can also help to undermine Norwegian laws and regulations by involuntary childless travel abroad for treatment there. The working party went in to approve the microinjection as an offer to the involuntary childless, pointing out that approx. one third of children born after assisted conception are the result of this method. We also believe, like the Medical Association, that microinjection combined with the collection of sperm from testicles and bite testicles should be allowed, as is the case in our neighbouring country. It is a point in this context that the need for semen will decrease, and that many men with dense sperm leaders will be able to become fathers. The working party wishes to maintain a genuine offer of assisted fertilisation, and sees its potential as small if one does not continue the principle of anonymity in the context of sperm donation. We have not been able to establish our own seed bank and therefore import semen from Denmark. The principle of anonymity applies, and we are afraid that the abolition of this will stop these imports and thus drastically reduce the provision for the treatment of involuntary childless people. The cancellation of anonymity is justified by the rights of the child. Rights and what's best for the child is not something that exists independently of time and place, but is a product of social processes. The primary relationships of children consist primarily of the caregivers who surround them. It is through such relationships that their identity is created. It is therefore difficult to claim that the most significant others are revealed through the genes. Egg donation is permitted in most European countries, and there is a known treatment for the childless. The working party considers that egg donation and sperm donation should be treated equally, and indicates that egg donation is to help women who are not themselves fertilising or who are carriers of serious heritable diseases. The working party will therefore open up egg donation under certain conditions. The working party also agrees that the freezing time of fertilised eggs will be extended to five years and that research will be opened on unfertilised eggs. The Workers' Party also agrees with the Government to maintain the current regulation of pre-implantation diagnostics in Chapter 4 of the Biotechnology Act and at the same time believes that the field of knowledge in this area should be strengthened. The government proposes tightening the possibilities for obtaining ultrasound testing in pregnancy. Pregnants are satisfied with current ultrasonic practices and see it as a safety factor. The government's proposals for tightening up information on the findings made could create uncertainty and unnecessary drama for the pregnant woman. In our understanding, the healthcare professional currently conducting screening studies also has the competence to assess any foetal abnormalities. If they are available, they will also be able to provide the pregnant person and her dependants with adequate information on the medical consequences of the findings made and will also be able to assess whether he should be referred to another body with special competence in the field or allow further treatment to take place at the time of primary diagnosis. The government is afraid of the consequences of foetal diagnosis and early knowledge of the foetus. Again, there is reason to point out that knowledge can be used and abused. It is therefore important to stress that the aim of all foetal medicine is to diagnose conditions in order to cure or cure a disease where possible. Knowledge of any deviation is important for the preparation of parents and health professionals to take care of the newborn. In this way, foetal diagnostics can make the prognosis for the child and the birthing better than it would have been without this knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1347	The working party enters to allow egg donation. There's a broad acceptance among most people to help a woman bear her own child. Egg donation will make it to be pregnant and give birth to a goal in itself. On this basis, it may be natural to ask if the Workers' Party believes that society has the same responsibility to help a woman become pregnant and give birth, as to help her have a child of her own. As an alternative to egg donation, the Workers' Party is also involved in ovarian transplantation. It can be done by removing ovaries from a living woman or from a dead or dying woman. Both of them ask a number of ethical questions. Which of these two options does the Workers' Party see separately – or do they go in for both? What are the considerations of the Working Party that healthy women should donate away an ovary, with the physical changes that it will bring about? And by transplantation from a dead woman: what thoughts does the Workers' Party make around the problem that the biological mother is dead by the birth of a new life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1356	The working party sees it as a goal to help women who are involuntarily childless and who are infertile. We see this as a disease – it can be a consequence of a disease – and in this way we feel that when we have knowledge, society and our health care actually have a responsibility to provide these women with a treatment. We have long helped men who have not been fertilizing, by accepting sperm donation. The working party does not see the fundamental differences between egg donation and sperm donation, and believes that even men who are married to women who are not fertilising should have the possibility of becoming biological father to their own children whenever possible. Of course, when it comes to the question of the biological mother, there's a discussion about what's important. When an egg is implanted and grown in a mother, it is clear that one will have a special relationship with the child who is growing in one, and that will, of course, also mean that one feels even more strongly a social responsibility for the child who is growing up. [[The President clubs.]] The balances to be made, whether it is the genes, biology, or whether it is the social security network around a child that is the important thing, are clearly different assessments of, and perhaps there is an existential question at the bottom of it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1367	The President must only stress the speaking time, not to be bad, but because time is running so fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1370	There has been a growing interest in the Norwegian population in recent years in tracking down and going back to its roots and biological origins, not least we see an increase in adopted children seeking to recover to their biological origins. The working party writes in its comments in the setting the following: ‘These members are of the opinion that the long practice of anonymous sperm donors has not led to problems for those born by this method.’ My question to the representative Britt Hildeng is: can the Workers' Party document what is written here in the comment, or is it just vision? Personally, I know at least two couples where the case has been problematic, with quite serious mental disorders because the children have not been able to recover to their biological origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1382	The representative asks for evidence that this has not led to any problems. One can at least learn that in the case of the children who have grown up after assisted conception, there is no opposite evidence, no evidence that they have not done well. As I said in my post, I think we're going to assume that both views want the child's best. But there's a discussion about what's best for the child. After all, this semen donation was also tested for the UN by the Children’s Ombudsman here in Norway. But the UN could give no answer to what was best for the child. And I think we actually have to live with those balances. But I believe, as I said, that when we want to maintain the anonymity, it is based on the fact that we want a real offer to those who are involuntary children. Secondly, we believe that the child's best interests are linked to growing-up conditions, the security they feel when they grow up. I think maybe the question of non-anonymity or the question of transparency could bring in a new insecurity, another kind of insecurity with the child that it's not certain is for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1389	It's good to discuss real disagreement where it is, and to clarify the positions of the various parties. But I notice that part of the comments from the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party are comments where one can discuss whether the disagreement is real. I want to quote two of those comments. One of them says: ‘These members also strongly disagree that developmental errors detected on the foetus prior to the 12th week of pregnancy are not to be notified to the woman.’ I would like to ask Britt Hildeng a very specific question in relation to that comment: Where does Britt Hildeng find that the majority expresses that the findings made before should not be communicated, if we ignore it with gender, as the government of Harlem Brundtland itself suggested in 1994? That's the one. The second thing to write is: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party and the Advance Party consider that ultrasound should not be prohibited as a method for detecting defects in the foetus’.» Where in the majority's remarks does Britt Hildeng think that the majority would ban ultrasound as a method? These are very specific questions to which it must be possible to answer. The third issue is: ‘These members find it pointless that the use of ultrasound over a certain number should be penalised by an increase in the rate.’ An increase in the rate means that you get better pay for an investigation, so it's a strange kind of punishment. But I would like to ask Britt Hildeng where, in the majority's comments, it is found that the term 'tax increase' is used, and in particular that it should be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1413	As a majority, so minority! As a majority, the minority has taken as its starting point the present notification. This includes, among other things: to increase the payment if one has multiple ultrasound examinations in pregnancy. That's the starting point. If the majority is of that opinion, it is difficult to see why the majority has not participated in the comments made by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The same with the others. The comments referred to by the rapporteur were made on the basis of interpretations of the tightening that we believe to read in the government's communication. If the majority here doesn't seem to read those restrictions, it's hard to understand why they haven't been in the comments that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1421	Would Britt Hildeng like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1424	I will take up the suggestions that we are behind!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1429	The representative of Hildeng has then taken up the suggestions she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1434	The right to life is fundamental. Right thinks that human life has an inviolable self-esteem. Human life cannot be assessed against other objectives. Legislation and medical-ethical issues related to the beginning, maintenance and life process of life will continue to change, but for the Right, ethics should limit the use of technology, not vice versa. Two of the main issues in the debate are: first, human vision and the willingness to set ethical boundaries for technology. The majority assume that no individual should be reduced to a medium for other individuals, since each life is a goal in itself. The minority, in my opinion, sets the goal of society to treat sick people in the front in such a way that a life can only be reduced to a means, not a goal in itself. The majority, on the other hand, argue that one through an open and democratic process sets the ethical limits for research. Norway must take this debate on its own initiative. Then, of course, we must work for an international regulatory framework which will follow this up as closely as possible. The minority also believes that ethical boundaries must be set, but says in its remark: ‘... Norway should not be so restrictive as to impede the development of our professional environment and thereby reduce the possibility of the treatment services that technology can provide to its own citizens with serious disorders.’ But then there is absolute reason to ask questions about not such a starting point that all ethical boundaries of research will be left to balance in the enclosed space and to the researchers themselves. There will always be some countries that do not set borders or that move borders as technological developments progress. That means that the most liberal country will at any time be allowed to set the limits and move them. The majority clearly agree to continue the ban on research on fertilised eggs. A fertilized egg is a sprout for human life. It contains all the attributes that are needed to become a new human being. It is not just in the Christian faith that man has a value beyond what is purely beneficial. In a humanistic tradition, too, man is endowed with a self-esteem that is inviolable. By using fertilised eggs in the research, they are given a value only for the benefit of others. Therefore, the proposal to open up research on fertilised eggs will be a radical instrumentalisation of human dignity to the beginning of life. I am surprised that the minority does not see that this ban actually stands out better today than it did when it was introduced. At that time, one believed that research would primarily succeed by researching stem cells from fertilized eggs. However, one has recently seen that breakthroughs come first in research on adult stem cells. Thus, the ethical dilemma in the balance between the consideration of the fertilised egg and the possibility of treating a sick person has increased. We know today that there is an alternative that does not require the same ethical considerations. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government has already begun to invest in this type of research and will follow up on this further. Here, Norway has the opportunity to demonstrate that it is possible to be in the forefront, both in the form of clear ethical legislation and the commitment to future-oriented medical research. Therapeutic cloning is not regulated by law in Norway today. Therapeutic cloning will mean that the patient, for example: can get fresh cells from its newly produced single-sided twin. In the future, one might in this way treat serious diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. But the Government has proposed to establish a ban on this in the Biotechnology Act. A number of other countries, such as the UnitedKingdom and the UnitedKingdom. Great Britain, has opened up for this. Therapeutic cloning will mean that a creature creates a sprout for life based on a purely profit assessment, but also that a start on a process that can lead to cloning of already born individuals, reproductive cloning. In Norway, the Lekfolk Panel unanimously recommends not to allow therapeutic cloning. Already on the Internet, Clonaid.com offers human cloning. ‘Two orders now’ is one of the points on the page. The research director of the company says: Who today would be upset about the idea of bringing back to life a 10-month-old child who died because of an accident? The technology makes it possible, the parents want it. This shows that with the minority approach, for example: in relation to therapeutic cloning, new issues are quickly identified which are also clearly removed by the minority. But the research director's arguments are the same: technology allows it, individuals think it will relieve their pain. The Biotechnology Act often addresses the issue of the rights of the unborn and the child to the needs and wishes of their parents. As a starting point in a liberal society, we can say that parents and future parents will usually make choices that are best for themselves and their families. But we also see more strongly that technology opens up for the adult human being to make choices that have major consequences for the unborn life, based on a selfish concern or a professional prestige, that when a woman of 58 years is treated to become pregnant. In this way, our country today is referred to former Minister of Health Werner Christie who has wisely said: In many conversations it turns out that our future fellow human beings do not come to the fore. They need help from us here and now to get to the point. If I am going to look for a guide that today's Health Minister has used in his work on this matter, it must be just this: in the message he has brought up our future fellow human beings. Werner Christie's statement was related to his doubt that he agreed with the Government in lifting the sperm donor's anonymity. This is a position that is now supported by all parties, with the exception of the Workers' Party. It is easy to think that this will make it difficult to get donors to set up and thus make it more difficult for the childless couple. With what right does society remove the child's ability to get this information if they want it? We know from experience, especially from adoptive children, that the need to find their roots, their biological origin, is a fundamental need for man. It's a clear expression that we not only view ourselves as individuals, but also as a result of a relationship greater than ourselves. The challenge of getting hold of donors must be met offensively, among other things. by cooperating with those countries that have the same legislation as ourselves. Because all human life has the same human dignity, regardless of its characteristics and characteristics, Right believes that rules of law must be designed so that the sorting of human life by attributes should not occur. This big message is an important contribution to preparing us for an increased pressure towards a sorting society. Legislation must be at the forefront of technological development. Preimplantation diagnostics, or analysis of the characteristics of the fertilised egg, are currently prohibited in Norway through the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs. The majority ask the Government of the Odelstningsproposition to come back with a further clarification of this prohibition. It is a method for which an argument is made by a desire to sort out eggs with diseases incompatible with life. But as one opens up to this, one will immediately get the discussion of where this limit goes. If the woman bears a serious, heritable gender-related illness, it is now available through the combination of artificial insemination and the treatment of semen to ensure that the child becomes a girl. This is fully permitted in Norway today. The identification of genetic conditions giving rise to increased disease risk will cause ethical problems as to who should have access to such information. The right-hand side wants individuals to have the right to access, as well as not to get, information about their own genetic disposition for diseases. The vote will take place at the end of the debate on the question of outreach genetic activity. This is a principle position in which the majority parties do not need an evaluation. In the consultation to the regulation, the Biotechnology Study, the State Council for the Disabled, the National Research Ethics Committees and the Data Protection Authority pointed out that they were against the legislation of the then Odelstinget. This is in our opinion a good enough reason to ask the government to come back with a change of law. Today's debate is, in my view, proof that policy can be ahead of development. It is also proof that society is able to take political and ethical debates in areas that are so complicated that one might think it was difficult. In particular, biotechnology is part of the credit for the opportunity to take this debate. In this way, today's debate gives cause for optimism on behalf of the social debate. Finally, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Olav Gunnar Ballo, for an excellent job. He has in his own words made difficult issues more accessible, not least for us during the work, but also for those who have to read it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1487	The representative, Höie, was concerned with the anonymity principle for sperm donors. As has already been clarified, the Workers' Party wishes to maintain a genuine offer of artificial fertilisation by means of semen donation and to maintain the principle of anonymity. We know that the semen used in artificial insemination here in the country is mostly imported from Denmark, and that the sperm donor is anonymous. The removal of the anonymity principle is most likely to stop that import and place strong restrictions on the procedure. This view fully shared the Right when Odelstingen passed the Biotechnology Act, which has been the basis for current practice. I therefore find with some wonder that the right now takes the very opposite position. Although we are going to decide today that we are facilitating the establishment of semen banks in Norway, do I have to ask the representative Höie: Do you think that in Norway we can maintain a real offer of artificial fertilisation when the anonymity principle is removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1492	Yes, it is true that the Right was opposed to abolishing the anonymity of sperm donors at the same time as the former State Council of the Workers Party, Werner Christie, was. But in the same way as Werner Christie, we have doubted and debated ourselves to another point of view. That's also going to look at a number of other positions that we're taking today. There has been a long and thorough process in the party in connection with the party's principal programme, which has ended in a number of new and, in my opinion, correct ethical positions in relation to this, because we choose to focus on the right of the unborn person to make a decision for himself in terms of the desire to know his biological origin. We believe it is wrong and an attack on the part of society to remove the ability of individuals to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1497	Although the Right likes to call itself a conservative party, the Right Party and the Advance Party in Health Policy have largely had conflicting interests in stimulating research and improving medical treatments. Is it so to understand that the Right now has changed this policy, since the Right is involved in that majority, at least when looking at the comments, which will regulate how many ultrasound tests to be allowed during pregnancy, and thus deprive the professional expert of using this tool where it is deemed necessary? Could the representative, Bent Höie, provide a justification for this position? And further, it's pointed out by the minority in the setting that you want it to open up for research on fertilised eggs. The majority is going to go against this. The representative Ballo, who is also a member of this majority, was concerned that the fertilized egg is the beginning of life. The representative, Höie, was also concerned that this is the beginning of a life. My question then is this: does the representative Höie see the ethical dilemma in that you think it is entirely right that the abundantly fertilized eggs are destroyed, and in that way killed, if you look at it as a life? With this in mind, the representative, Höie, must also disagree with today's law on self-determined abortion within the 12th week of pregnancy. If not, the representative Höie, as the majority also says in their comments, simply does not consider this to be a full-fledged life, and it must not be killing a fetus in the 12th week of pregnancy. Is it so to understand that this is the view of the Right and the representative of Höie?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1504	As for the first question, the representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer will answer that well in his post, so I skip it. The other two questions I want to try to give a better answer to. As far as research on surplus fertilised eggs is concerned, it is quite right, in my opinion, that the destruction of surplus fertilised eggs is an ethical dilemma, and therefore we should also facilitate the reduction of surplus fertilised eggs in order to reduce the dilemma. Secondly, in my opinion, if a research starts on these fertilized eggs, the ethical dilemma will increase. As regards the issue of the abortion law, I believe that this is not a relevant objection. The abortion law does not say that the fetus before 12 weeks has no intrinsic value. It says, on the other hand, that the woman's situation may be so difficult that there are moral and sound reasons for abortion. Therefore, the Storting in the abortion law has chosen to give the woman herself the opportunity to make this balance, a balance that I believe is not simple, precisely because the woman has an opinion of the fetus's self-esteem. The minority in the Committee draws the privatisation of this difficult balance to the particular point of view that this germ of life in other contexts does not have intrinsic value and can therefore be reduced to a means for others. This is, of course, an ethical short-circuit. But then it must be allowed to ask the replicator back: does he therefore also believe that this germ of life should be deprived of the right of inheritance, as it has in today's legislation, for example. in the distribution of the heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1513	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1516	The genetic research environments and our genetic specialists will probably have a bad day today when they read the present setting. With the address directly to the Minister of Health, I will first personally be allowed to express that St.meld. No 14 were professionally difficult to obtain from a non-professional. Genetic and biotechnology is complicated and difficult in itself. It should therefore be possible to present the notification in a somewhat more popular, understandable way to the politicians at Stortinget, where most of them are not medical professionals. It can hardly be justified to require the Storing to take a stand on the methods and techniques of this technology to barely understand the content and scope of it. In this way, the case-rapporteur, who is also a doctor, has been of great help to the Committee in publicising some specific issues in the communication. A fundamentalist precautionary principle will, in the long term, hamper research and medical-technological development in this field, which in turn prevents Norwegian patients from obtaining the results that this technology can produce. A central element of the value base of the EEAG is the emphasis on human dignity. However, the relatively modest emphasis on autonomy does not fully harmonize with the emphasis on human dignity as a normative basis and differs, among other things. from the Helsinki Declaration, where the individual's concern ranks clearly ahead of society's concerns. The notification and majority voting provides the basis for a subsequent legislative proposal to evaluate and revise the current Biotechnology Act. As I see it, the present attitude will lead to a significant tightening of the current biotechnology law, which may be one of the most restrictive laws across Europe. I am not surprised that a minister of health from the Christian People's Party, with its special abortion, is proposing restrictive legislation for research on fertilized eggs, artificial fertilisation, foetal diagnostics and gene therapy. In fact, I respect that, even though I disagree very much in several areas. I am more surprised, however, that the Socialist Left Party is included in the majority position, a party with a very liberal abortion, which alone determines the fate of the foetus until the 12th week of pregnancy. I believe that the notification and cancellation are actually an attempt to reverse the abortion legislation. The precautionary principle may be reasonable, but in the present big message, this principle is far too far off if subsequent legislation is to take into account what is in the majority position on research. I am thinking in particular of the prohibition of research on fertilised eggs and therapeutic cloning for the generation of stem cells for the cultivation of tissue cells and genetic testing on born humans and necessary information about this. The ethical position of the individual will be changeable. It also applies to the ethical position of genetic and biotechnologies. The size of the population is responsible to individual citizens in this country for facilitating research and medical-technical development. This responsibility also applies in relation to the new technology and the potential of this technology for both the prevention and treatment of serious disorders. In a number of areas of the Single European Act, the Progress Party has come to a different conclusion from that of the majority. This is because the Progress Party basically has a positive view of the new technology. We see opportunities for this technology can give people, but we're also aware that technology can be abused. It is important both for the debate here and for the matter itself that we, as big business representatives, respect each other's different views on the issues raised in the communication. The Progress Party agrees that the offer of artificial fertilisation within and outside the uterus should only be offered to couples and cohabitants with a relatively stable condition. The Party also agrees that there should continue to be a ban on egg donation, for the sake of the identity of the child. The Party also agrees that the anonymity of the semen donor should be lifted and, finally, the lot agrees that it should not be allowed to transplant organs that produce germ cells from one person to another, in which case it will be set up to modify the inheritance facility. The Party of Advances considers that microinjection combined with the collection of sperm from bites and testicles should be authorised as a normal form of treatment. The same position takes the lot for the maturation of unfertilised eggs outside the body, the so-called IVM method. These methods are used in several European countries without sufficient evidence that these techniques cause harm to the child. The Party also considers that freezing of egg tissues should be allowed in order to save the reproductive capacity of the woman in case of disease, in line with the freezing of sperm in different cancers. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is unnecessary and pointless bureaucracy to require written consent for each experiment by artificial fertilisation in cases where the partnership has not changed. Both the notification and the majority position are particularly restrictive in relation to foetal diagnostics and preimplantation techniques. Instead of tightening up, the new legislation should be in favour of liberalising foetal diagnostics, for example by reducing the age limit for foetal water samples from 38 years to 35 years. A significant tightening of foetal diagnostics will also mean that the future legislative proposal should follow the majority of the Biotechnology topic, which states that foetal diagnostics should be allowed only when it can provide for the treatment of the foetus or in the detection of conditions incompatible with life. It is also a strange opinion from the Biotechnology Study. How can a person obtain this information if a person does not allow research on the foetus? The Party of Progress is also extremely concerned about the restrictive attitude to which the notification relates and which is followed by the majority in the case of ultrasonic examination before the 12th week of pregnancy. The Party rejects this restriction on the use of ultrasound during pregnancy checks and justifies the fact that it must be beneficial for the woman to obtain information on the state of the foetus as early as possible in pregnancy in order to make the right choice in relation to abortion. The concern that genetic foetal diagnostics should lead to changes in human dignity has been discussed in Norway for the past 30 years. There is so far no evidence that the foetal diagnostics carried out in Norway has produced this negative effect, for example, the rights of disabled people have never been stronger in Norway than they have at present. In this context, I would also like to point out that the human dignity of the woman and family must also be given importance in connection with a discussion on genetic foetal diagnostics. In particular, I do not think that the human dignity of the woman is at all emphasized when the notification and the majority here put up with a ban on research on fertilized eggs, which makes preimplantation diagnosis impossible, and one can therefore risk that fertilized eggs with a dominant disease factor for the foetus that is incompatible with life are implanted in the womb and thus impose a great burden on the woman and family, which could have been avoided if this technique had been permitted. Does the majority have no moral scruples in this regard? For both the foetus and the woman, the Party considers that a professional competence for preimplantation diagnostics should be established in one or more places in Norway. Genetic examinations after birth are becoming more and more relevant in our country as well. As regards the storage and processing of genetic results, the Party considers that these must be treated in the same way as other medical studies, and one does not need any additional legislation in this way. Medical examinations in general are subject to strict professional secrecy, and the same will, of course, be the case for genetic examinations and results. In the case of genetic studies that require information to the nearest family at the proven disposition of serious hereditary disease, this was regulated in 1999 in Section 6 of the current Biotechnology Act and has to be evaluated after a five-year period, i.e.: in 2005. The majority of attempts to reverse the 1999 legislative amendment reject the Progress Party in cash, and the Minister of Health should do so. The right to know has to go in front of the right not to know in this context. The Progress Party agrees, of course, that genetic data should not be allowed to be provided to insurance companies and financial institutions, nor to employers without the patient’s consent. The Progress Party also agrees that gene therapy has so far failed to deliver the expected results. However, one should not include legislation to prevent such therapy if developments in the short or longer term are to be widely used. I do not agree with the Government and the majority that gene therapy can only be carried out in the event of a serious illness without a serious illness being defined. As I see it, serious illness can also be defined as a severely reduced quality of life that is chronic. For these patients, experimental treatment is also important and can have a positive effect on patients’ lifestyle, well-being and mental status. The Progress Party believes that the role of the current biotechnology topic should be carefully assessed. Which function, which decision-making authority shall be referred to in specific professional ethics issues? The subject of biotechnology should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be consulted on any matter relating to genetic and biotechnology before being brought before the Stortinget. One amendment should in any case be made in accordance with the opinion of the Progress Party, namely that biotechnology can freely and independently meet for consultation in the Social Committee on any matter in which this issue is discussed and addressed. If there is no conflict with the authority and responsibilities of the Biotechnology Name Item, the Progress Party considers that one should consider putting down the whole title and transferring its work area to another public professional body. Finally, I refer to the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1555	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1560	The progress party at the representative Alvheim has shown a commendable commitment to the involuntary childless in the case of artificial conception. But then I think it stops a little bit. The propulsion batch is for microinjection of semen in eggs, but is not for egg donation, and is for anonymous sperm donors. Does not the representative Alvheim think that this will make it more difficult to become a father without being a biological father, and that it can now be completely impossible to have sperm donors? Does the representative Alvheim think that it is in a way entirely okay for a family when the children of the anonymous sperm donor, who may have become a family father after each sea, stand on the steps after 16 years to require the genealogy of his biological father's family? The representative Alvheim believes that it is only for the benefit of the child, or for the 16-year-old, for example. does the father find that he has a serious mental disorder, as the representative mariner uses as an example?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1565	The horror of the 58-year-old Norwegian woman who has now become pregnant with egg donation should give us something to think about. The egoism of the parents is put in the high seat, and the best of the child is far, far down. As parents, we might understand this much better than if we hadn't been parents. It must be one stop in the life of a child born to the world, that of having one’s biological mother intact. Then it's not right, as Gunn Olsen's representative says, that the child can "require" some of the sperm donors. It can't take anything. All you have to do is know who the person is. The donor has no obligation towards this child at all. The mental problem up here is for many of the children who are born this way today, and who have no chance of finding their biological origin. There are some serious mental problems in some homes around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1572	The technology is becoming more and more fine-tuning, and we are getting more and more opportunities to detect more and more disabilities or anomalies. How, in the future, can we still be able to call ourselves a human society if we take away human children that are a little bit different? The Party of Progress criticises the Government for maintaining a restrictive line for the use of ultrasonic testing during pregnancy. The right and government parties do not want to contribute to the creation of a sorting society. As politicians, we have a responsibility to create a society that is constantly challenging us precisely to have greater respect for those who are different. After seeing the pulse program here by day, where two families with Down's syndrome children stood up and openly told about life at good and bad, I am sure that the attitude towards the sorting society that the government parties and the majority have is correct. It was a strong program, where it became clear that the danger of the child being removed was great if the parents had been informed in advance and faced with a choice. Today, the same parents express relief and joy that because of ignorance they were not faced with the situation that they had to make such a choice. Research on genetic defects has come a long way, and all experience suggests that we will soon be able to hatch foetuses where it can be shown that the child will be able to develop in the future, for example. heritable heart problems, cancers or other genetic diseases. The Party of Advancement will carry out research on fertilised eggs and open to preimplantation techniques in order to find heritable genetic defects on the foetuses. Does the representative Alvheim and the Progress Party want a sorting society in the future, where all the children who are different can be hatched?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1581	One shall be careful to be offended as a central politician. But the very question from the representative Nørve I could not have been. The Progress Party is working with the entire Committee in a joint statement where we are just stressing that we are not going to have a sort society, but that we are going to have a society for everyone. That should actually be the answer. But we should not ignore that for some parents – a mother or a married couple – a serious deviation that is not compatible with life can be an excessive burden to be imposed. That's the possibility we get if we had gone into the preimplantation technique. Then we could avoid putting on a married couple or a lonely woman the incredible burden it must be to give birth to a child with such diseases that are incompatible with life. It's also a side of this that we shouldn't forget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1586	It goes like a red thread through the big news that it's going to facilitate a society where people with disabilities have the same human dignity as others and the same right to live up. Genetic tests open to treat and cure many diseases. For the Christian People's Party, it is a prerequisite that one can prevent disease or reduce the development of the disease for which it is being tested. Genetic tests are very sensitive information about the individual's legacy that must not be weighed out. I have noticed that the Progress Party is not included in the comment that there is a desire for a restrictive law on the use of genetic information outside the healthcare system. The Contracting Party is the only party which does not provide clear support for the maintenance of the prohibition in the context of insurance. Does not the Progress Party see that this can lead to discrimination against people with disabilities? Does not the Party of Advancement fear that anyone may not test themselves in fear of being denied insurance? How does this rhyme with privacy, of which the Progress Party is usually very concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1595	It must be a pure incurrence that we are not in that remark. In all that we have written in the past in relation to the treatment of genetic and biotechnology, also the last time this was up in Odelstinget, we have stood for this vision. I have repeated this in my post here today, so there should be no doubt that we are as restrictive in terms of this information, as the majority is in their remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1600	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1603	This is a great day for anyone who wants to set boundaries in the struggle for human dignity, who will base the precautionary principle on all research, and who will have a society where one does not sort out individuals who are different. Important issues in medical ethics have been politically clarified thanks to constructive cooperation with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, and not least with case-rapporteur Olav Gunnar Ballo. For the Christian People's Party, all people have their self-esteem regardless of the stage of development. Therefore, man can never be a means to others. We want research on fertilised eggs and cell lines taken from fertilised eggs to remain prohibited. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the majority will protect about the very weakest and most helpless of all human life, the fertilized egg. The majority will prevent us from moving in the direction of a sort society. The Christian People's Party sees the great potential of research on stem cells. Such research may lead to faster development of treatment for incurable disease. We're very positive for stem cell research. Developments are fast, and one no longer needs to use germinal human life or therapeutic cloning to develop stem cells. These can be obtained from born persons and researched. Early in May we heard a news that went all over the world. Norwegian researchers have performed a medical sensation. They have managed to convert skin cells into other cells without cloning or using stem cells. The method can be the future cure for diabetes, Parkinson's disease and cancer. This is amazing. Now it is important that we continue to focus on such research in parallel with research on adult stem cells. As a consequence of the majority’s opposition to research on fertilised eggs and its intention to protect against sorting, a ban on pre-implantation diagnostics should be considered. This method requires the use of several fertilised eggs before a selector is inserted into the uterus. There has been a lot of misinformation about ultrasonics. Let me say that all pregnant women will still be offered ultrasound at week 18 as part of the maternity check to know about the term, the place of the morcoma, and whether one is waiting for more than one child. If, in such a situation, a woman discovers a discrepancy, the Patient Rights Act requires her to receive information about the findings in a gentle manner. Health professionals shall take into account limitations in their competence and refer to the specialist. It is important that the person providing information is qualified both to interpret the findings and to disseminate them further. This is a quality assurance that is forward-looking. In the case of a risk of serious heritable diseases or developmental abnormalities, foetal diagnostics is permitted to enable the treatment of disorders of the foetus. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the sperm donor will no longer be anonymous. We believe that children should have the right to know their origins. They are treated in the same way as adopted children and the decision is in the agreement with the United Nations Convention. In the previous period, it was opened up to outreach genetic activity. The patient's relatives can get information about diseases without having asked for it or if the patient wants it. This can break the trust of the doctors. Draft regulations are being consulted and raise resistance both from the Data Protection Authority, the Biotechnology Study and the State Disability Council. The Christian People's Party supports the majority in that one thing is now tightening up. The desire of the individual not to know must be respected. Requesting and providing information shall be prohibited, for example: insurance company. Both privacy and legal certainty are best protected in this way, and discrimination is hindered by genetic properties. The message is about creating a society where everyone is equally valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1636	In Norway, it is therefore still to be allowed to be artificially fertilised with sperm from a sperm donor, but not with eggs from a husband. So I think most of us can avoid sensations about 58-year-old ladies traveling to the United States to get eggs. I guess that's also why we have regulated the law, at an age limit. But is it not that the representative Woie Duesund and the Christian People's Party are anxious that national restrictions on the childless will lead to such examples that people travel, for example. To the United States for eggs? Does the representative Woie Duesund think it is good equality policy to allow artificial fertilization with semen, but not with eggs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1642	I think it will always be that someone will be able to bypass a code, that someone will buy out of a difficult situation. It must never prevent us from making rules for Norway that are good for us. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that one does not sort out unwanted children. For us, it's important that one does not choose from genetic traits, and we believe that egg donation gives a different biological origin than sperm donation, which is a simpler intervention. In case of egg donation, the woman must be treated with hormones. When it comes to egg donation, it can be difficult to know what is a biological mother and what is the social mother. We want it to be clear that it has to be the biological mother. Nor should it be that one makes it so simple that it almost becomes a human right to have children. So we distinguish sperm donors from egg donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1649	I said in my first post that the message bears the mark that it was made by a Minister of Health from the Christian People's Party, and that the message is an indirect rematch on the abortion law. I went on to say that I respected such a view. Nevertheless, I must be allowed to draw up a moral paradox which the Christian People's Party must face in this context, namely, as the report states, should Norway and our treatment apparatus be able to make use of medical achievements that have been explored, for example, on fertilised eggs outside the borders of the country? Then is my question to the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund: does not this taste of double morality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1656	The regulatory time for this morning's meeting is up, but the president suggests that we continue the line change with the representative Woie Duesund before the break. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1659	As I said, all governments have to administer laws that they really disagree with. In this case, it concerns the regulation of the use of fertilised eggs, foetal diagnostics and artificial fertilisation, and there are other questions than those relating to abortion. No changes in abortion legislation are proposed. I think it's very positive that the majority today are talking about human protection for the germinal life, and that we don't want to have a society where one chooses away people who are different. I don't think it's a double morality. So that we should follow the legislation that is in other countries. As a member of the National Assembly, I believe it is important that we participate and set the standard for the Norwegian laws, and that we do not follow the legislation that may always be more liberal than ours. I see there is a need for value choices, and the majority have done so today. I'm proud of that, I'm glad, and I wish more would have been involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1668	The representative Woie Duesund said that she regretted the misinformation that had been given about ultrasound. For us who then try to interpret the views of the government parties, it is difficult to get what they really mean. The representative says that in the case of ultrasound, health professionals should, of course, provide information on the findings made and, if necessary, refer to a specialist. Isn't that what health professionals are doing today, if they think it's necessary? On the one hand, one tries to present the views of the government parties as if it were the same as what the legislation expresses today. On the other hand, you say you're doing a tightening. That word is also clearly used in the message. I would like to ask you, that you should not be dealing with misinformation, but get some clarity about what the government parties really stand for: what will be the difference with that tightening? What will it consist of in relation to today's legislation? And what are today's health professionals doing that they won't be able to do after the restrictions that government parties think it will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1677	I believe that one of the most important things that the government is concerned with is having a quality assurance, being sure that it has found, is the right thing, and that one is not involved in creating false security. It should be such as today that an ultrasonic control is to be offered, which normally takes place between 16 and 18. week, in order to know the term, the location of the morca and whether one is expecting more than one child. So it is, as the representative Hildeng said, so today that if a fixed person finds something that he does not have the knowledge to be able to inform about, he is referred to a specialist. The same is true of the government parties and the majority will today. In that case, a reference shall be made to a person with special competence and experience to read the findings identified and to provide information on the findings. It's a quality assurance that we're concerned about. It is also the case that, in the event of a suspicion of major developmental abnormalities or of a specific risk of serious hereditary disease, an offer of foetal water diagnostics may have the possibility to prevent, treat or improve the child’s condition. We don't want it to be like a sort of someone. Many times there will be children with Down's syndrome. In fact, I think they have something to teach us about quality of life and joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-17.ana.ud2003e1686	The cord shift is over. The meeting is scheduled for 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at tonight's meeting is Ola D. Glötvold.
