ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e30	The Ringeriksbahnen is a new railway line between Sandvika and Hønefoss which will provide Ringerikes with a direct track connection to Oslo and shorten Bergensbanen by approx. 60 km. The driving time between Hønefoss and Oslo will then be approx. 30 minutes, which is approx. 50 minutes shorter than the train via Drammen. In addition, this path will help to improve competition with the car – it can compete with both cars and express buses. However, it is the trasé choice that is to be clarified today. The Ringerix track shall meet many objectives at different levels, such as: reducing transport costs and limiting environmental impacts in the transport sector by increasing the use of the train as a public transport vehicle. The goal of the Ringerix course is three-part: to strengthen the competitiveness of Bergensbanen by ensuring Bergen and Voss a competitive transport option for aircraft and cars to facilitate a fast transport option that builds up during travel and business in Hallingdalå to provide a fast and direct rail offer in the near traffic Hönefoss-Oslo Work on the trasé corridor for the Ringeriksbanen has continued through two corridors, one over Kroksund and one through Åsa. The routes presented are either the corridor over Kroksund with a length of 41,2 km, or the corridor over Åsa with a length of 46,6 km. Expected costs for the two corridors are calculated for approx. €3.5 billion for the corridor over Kroksund and approx. $4.2 billion for the corridor via Åsa. The Kroksund corridor is the shortest and cheapest. Today’s traffic base is good and has potential for improvements, with land use developments in accordance with the principles of coordinated land and transport planning. But this corridor also has most land-use and environmental conflicts. The consumption of cultivated land is about twice that of the corridor via Åsa. The path will be clearly visible at some points, and crossing Kroksund in bridge will be a challenge. The plain landscape of the Ring Kingdom is also important in cultural memory contexts. The Åsa corridor has more tunnels and avoids the greatest land use and environmental conflicts. Hole municipality can be served via Sundvollen, but the traffic base becomes somewhat worse between Hönefoss and Oslo. The same applies to the potential for future traffic growth related to new land use. The Christian People's Party, following an overall assessment, has found that due to the major negative impacts on landscapes, cultural memories, the natural environment and agricultural interests, it cannot be expected that the corridor over Kroksund will be taken into account. The Christian People's Party will therefore recommend that the further planning of the Ringeriksbanen be based on the corridor of Åsa. If this is planned, we believe it will provide good socio-economic profitability. Nevertheless, it is important that we are now sober about progress. Based on the available investigation material, the Ministry of Transport considers that it would not be socially appropriate to implement the project, because a number of other railway projects would have to be prioritised before the construction of the Ringerix Railway is relevant. In this context, reference is made to the priorities undertaken in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan 2002-2011. Such an assessment will have to be carried out by the Christian People's Party in the next work on the National Transport Plan 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e59	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e62	It is perceived by the Forum Nye Bergensbanen as a breach of promise that the majority of the Stortinge will today adopt with regard to the Ringeriksbanen. They also claim that without the Ringerik Railway, Bergensbanen can hardly survive in the long term. That's a statement I can say I agree with. For ten years, Bergen, Voss, Hallingdal, Ringeriks region – including Jevnaker, where I live – and Bærum have been waiting and waiting, and there have also been two impact assessments where an abbreviation of the Bergensbanen stands out as the most profitable major railway project we have had for a long time. When the representative, Odd Holten, says that after an overall assessment, you are in favour of the Åsa option, I want to ask him, why is it so important for the Christian People's Party and the majority of people to go in for an alternative of 700 million. kr more expensive, at a time when each crown counts? Why go in for an alternative that really will never see the light of day? But that might be the point? I honestly think that the majority make the environmental arguments in this matter very far. I am amazed that the setting says that you should have a public traffic and use the train as the means of communication that lies ahead. Why do you now adopt something that is contrary to the objectives you claim to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e71	At least I can tell the representative of Brørby that I am a train enthusiast. I am of those in Stortinget who use the train quite a lot. I have great faith that the NSB and the Railway Agency can develop good concepts for a future railway. Therefore, there is reason to note that there is a significant contribution in the budget of the year in the area of collective services. When it is said that we are now in the process of facilitating a breach of promises, I believe that this is not a correct description. When this decision was adopted, it was under clear premise that it had to have a progress that did not interfere with what was already inside the NTP, and that was when the heavily trafficked areas — the Eastfold Railway, the Westfold Railway — and the Intercity Option. When it comes to why we choose the most expensive option, we have had to weigh the environment and the land use against costs. That is the basis for our decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e78	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e81	By following the debate here today, it seems to me that there are good arguments both for and against both the trasé elections to be taken into consideration here, if you look at them in relation to environmental issues. That is why, for my part, I believe that the greatest environmental issue of all should be crucial, namely that we are talking here about creating a rail link in one of the largest, not to say worst, press areas in the country. Then it's very important to choose the option that has the ability to be realized. The alternative is that we do not achieve what is a goal for the municipalities around Oslo – including Ringerijke – which are included in the Buskerud County Plan and which are also the government's policy, namely that these municipalities must be a relief area for the Oslo Region in order to ease the pressure on land, social problems, housing problems, etc. There is no doubt that the Kroksund option has the greatest chance of being realised at all, because it has lower costs, because it means more travellers, and because it allows the construction of ring roads on the north-west side of the Oslo area. It is important to be aware that the communications links from the west to Oslo are the most burdensome in the country, whether in the case of trains, buses or cars. And something has to be done if you're serious about that, for example. The Ring Kingdom shall be a relief area in the Oslo region. You can't do this by betting all the money on the way. It goes without saying that a train connection that reduces travel time from Henefoss to Oslo by 50 minutes will be not only alpha and omega, but it is clear that there is something that will also promote the environment throughout this area. The Åsa option will provide far higher costs and lower passenger numbers, and the chances are very high that this path will not be built. In my opinion, this is the major regional issue and the major environmental issue in this room. Because when you talk about areas, when you talk about the environment, etc., you have to consider what will happen if you're not able to do what's in the Buskerud County Plan, which is the government's policy, that's to relieve the Oslo Region. Then you're going to have a pressure on land and have increased environmental problems across this region, and that's what I think is the big environmental issue in this case. Environmental disadvantages have been highlighted by both alternatives. Therefore, the option that has the chance to be realised should be chosen in the interests of the environment. It is demonstrable that rail transport is better than pushing everything on the road. I would also like to point out how many people in Ringerijk think, for example. what Ringerike's Blade wrote in the leader's place, and which I think takes the whole matter on the grain: ‘If we see the choice with local eyes, the adverse effects are, in our opinion, greater if the track is to pass through Åsa and further through the residential areas of the northern part of Hønefoss than if it is passed through agricultural areas in Hole and Ringerijk.’ So both local and regional considerations argue that we choose the option that the Workers' Party is in favour of. The national question is whether to be able to maintain Bergensbanen in the future. It's clear that if you get a reduction in travel time on this section of the track in 50 minutes, it'll be a very important thing to maintain the Bergensbahn, make it competitive, in relation to, among other things. aeroplanes between Oslo and Bergen, and also for the transport to one of the country's main tourist areas, namely the Hallingdal region with Hardangervidda. In my opinion, everything speaks to choose the option that has a chance of being realised once in the future, for regional, local and national environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e101	The Ministry of Transport has in St.prp. No 66 for 2001-2002 submitted its assessment on the choice of trasé corridor for the Bergensbanen abbreviation – Ringeriksbanen. The starting point for the planning work was the decision of the Stortinge of 18 June 1992 concerning the treatment of the Oslo–Bergen tribal road, and the decision of the Stortinge of 4 November 1996, asking for two corridors to be further explored – the corridor over Kroksund and the corridor over Åsa. A very comprehensive planning process has been carried out in the light of the Storting decision. The railway works have assessed and explored a number of trasé options in the two corridors. In the impact studies, eight combined options were provided over Kroksund and 18 combined options via Åsa. Through the planning process, municipal spatial planning decisions are taken for the choice of trasé solution in each of the two main corridors. This extensive work makes it technically possible to carry out a new railway train in both corridors. Regardless of the trasé choice, the Ringerix track will reduce the journey time by train between Hønefoss and Oslo by about 50 minutes. The Ringerix track and the use of tilting trains could collectively reduce travel time between Oslo and Bergen by 1 hour and 40 minutes. Other objectives are to strengthen the competitiveness of the track on partial sections, including: to Hallingdal, as well as improving the close-trafficking offer between Hønefoss and Oslo. The estimated construction cost of the Ringerik Railway will be between DKK 3.5 and 4.2 billion. The Ringerix Railway will be positive for the environment by allowing traffic to be transferred from aircraft and car to railway. However, physical solutions will have significant negative impacts on the environment and natural resources. Both options lead to major interventions, but the option over Kroksund is clearly the most conflictable. Kroksund and Storelva are part of the Northern Tyrifjorden wetland system. Parts of the area are incorporated into the Ramsar Convention, an international agreement for the protection of wetlands. We know that considerable attention has been paid by international environmental teams to Norway’s management of the Kroksund area. I believe that the decision-making basis available makes it possible to choose between the two trasé corridors investigated, as requested by the Stortinget. With regard to traffic base and reduced travel time, differences are small, although Kroksund is marginally better. The Kroksund option also has lower construction costs than Åsa. However, after an overall assessment, I found it appropriate to recommend the Åsa option, because of the major negative impacts on landscapes, cultural memories, the natural environment and agricultural interests of the Kroksund option. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee on Transport supports this recommendation. When I have recommended Åsa in front of Kroksund, it is not because I want to scrape the project, as some have claimed. On the contrary, I don't think it would give you any bright prospects for the Ringeriksbanen to choose a trasé with such high protection values and with as many environmental conflicts as Kroksund would have brought. With the decision Stortinget makes today, Ringeriksbanen has come a step closer to realization. However, the National Transport Plan 2002–2011 continues to set the priorities for major development projects on Norwegian rail. This means that a number of other projects will have to be prioritized before the Ringerix Railway. I see those priorities as a broad consensus in this room. Although the construction of the Ringerik Railway may be a little ahead of time, I am concerned about developing Bergensbanen's potential as one of the country's main train sections for both passenger and freight transport also before that time. In the next year's budget, The government funds for profile extensions on Bergensbanen, which improves conditions for freight transport quickly and significantly. In the forthcoming roll-out of the transport plan, we will assess whether further actions can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e121	I hear that the Council of State, in line with others who are behind the majority in this case, first sided these two options, and then runs the Kroksund option north and down. It kind of becomes a little unfair to deal with it like this. Because what's our dilemma when we fight for Kroksund is the certainty that we're always facing a choice. And then what's interesting for me to know from the Council of State is the following: Isn't it a point that we finally find opportunities for a realistic alternative where we can build transport managers around Marka in Oslo, now in the first place a ring road, then a road where we connect south to the Gardermoen in a different way than by threatening transit traffic in Oslo? Isn't it interesting to change the traffic picture so that we release all the bus traffic, which has actually become a problem, from this region into Oslo, where we have parking problems and we fill up the Bygdø Allé? And isn't it interesting that we're adding a train section where people live? It must be a challenge for a government council, as it must be for the majority, to find a solution that people can actually enjoy and say that ice cream, they found us. Now you try to hide the train in the mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e128	It is quite right that this government is concerned about finding railway solutions that people benefit from. I look at an abbreviation of the Bergensbanen and of the Ringerik Railway as an important solution on the railway side. We are also facing challenges. Here are some environmental conflicts, here are some cultural memories, here are some agricultural conflicts, here is an environment worth taking care of – it has value. I heard instead: why should we choose the most expensive option? – it will never be implemented. These values that lie there have a value, they have a value for us, they have a value for the environment around us, they have value for the future – and I don't want to be a part of raging today. Therefore, I believe that what the Government has proposed is the right alternative to choose. What we're going to decide now is which trajectory to choose. In the next round, we will take a position on the prioritisation of this project in relation to time and in relation to other projects. But the answer is yes, it's interesting to change the development of transport so that we get a good community environment, a good air environment, a good land policy. We need buses, but we need train solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e136	First, I would like to say that it is interesting to sit and listen to a debate about the construction of a path in which many representatives behave as if it were a straight track, in which they themselves have no particular faith. It's just the Progress Party that's honest enough to say it's going to be too expensive. Then the Council of State insisted that she would transfer significant traffic from car and aircraft to the train. All right. Today, the railway stands for 5-6 pst. and the car stands for 80-85 pst. If you would now succeed in transferring 20-30-40 pst. What will the Council of State do about car traffic and rail air traffic? How many trains does she have to put in, and where are those trains going – even if you build a new path? Then I want to ask another question. Now a number of trajectory choices have been out for consultation, and the two options we are discussing today have been brought down, and there has been a comprehensive planning work. Then it might be interesting to hear if there is any analysis of what all this has cost, and what all this plan work will cost, as I suppose, as a final line, will be totally wasted plan work money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e145	I think it's the way to our big cities, that we can't rely on road solutions alone. The car has come to be, whether we want it or not, but we cannot base future solutions on the transport side on the one hand and alone on the car. We need collective services to help improve the environment in several areas – ranging from air pollution to land use – by other means of transport. It is an objective to transfer transport from car to rail and to public transport in general, because society is served by it. I think everyone's earned it. When it comes to plan work, it's like all the plan work costs. It is not just linked to a particular section of the track. Whatever the analysis of solutions we have, it costs. We're going through this work because we want to use it for something. Today we have the opportunity to make a decision on which trajectory to choose. Then we have a basis for further work on finding solutions for the Ringeriksbanen and for shortening the Bergensbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e152	I note that the Minister of Transport stresses that this is not a desire to scrape the Ringerik Railway. Rather, on the contrary, it's a step closer to the realization of the Ringeriks course. I also record the importance the Minister for Transport attaches to environmental considerations in this matter, and her emphasis on our international obligations to maintain this wetlands area. I look forward to the treatment of the National Transport Plan, and I expect that we will jointly fight for the highest possible priority for the Ringerix Railway, so that we can realise this project. I am quite impressed by the discussion that underlies the proposition, weighing up the different environmental arguments against each other and taking the decision that the Government has put before the Storting today. On that basis, I have to say that we are attending other upcoming transportation projects that are also about road. I expect that similar environmental considerations will be weighted equally heavily when dealing with trajectory choices for new road sections that can also often conflict with important protection values. I believe that in this case a standard has been set for this government to be proud of when it comes to emphasising environmental values in matters of transport. And I would like to ask the Council of State: can we expect a similar treatment of other matters in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e161	It is true that environmental considerations have weighed heavily on this matter. There are a lot of actions, a lot of projects, that affect other interests – environmental interests, natural conflicts of varying degrees, cultural memories, etc. I can promise that this government will go through these aspects of future projects. I know from experience that there are going to be many such conflicts, and it is important to take those conflicts and those considerations seriously, because we have the opportunity to do so now. If we don't take those considerations now, there's a lot of things at stake for the future. So I can promise that this government will take such conflicts seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e168	I first have a general question to the Council of State. How does she feel, along with the plural, that one should build the country? How do we want it for the tourists and also for ourselves? Is it to see Norway on the inside, both on the road and on the track? So move on to the real thing. The Åsa option also gets such an impact by itself, with 81 pst. tunnel. In this context, the Ramsar Convention has now said that one should also look at other areas around the Ring Kingdom, simply in the corridor where the Åsa option is now pointed out. Will there be less conflict in the future when planning? I don't think so, but let's go. Will there be less conflict than where the track would have a doctor today if we had a chance to build him? And further, it's the Stortinget that allows money. I think that's how far there's been a further 50 million spent. kr on planning. But it would have been okay if the Council of State could tell if it was somewhat correct. The cost-benefit fraction of the Åsa option is 0,8 and of the Kroksund option is 1.0. It is distributed and distributed, and the editors have been told to settle with such a negative sign for the Kroksund option as it could be, because it was a willful policy that Kroksund would not be good enough. I also want to hear a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e179	Now I have to admit that I have not been used to having any hidden agenda, nor that I want to make an alternative worse than it is, because it may not be the way I want it. My point with regard to this matter and all the corresponding matters is to get the facts on the table. I would like to stress most strongly that I will never give orders to anyone that they will cheat with an investigation to make it the way I want it to be. I have a responsibility to make sure that all the facts are on the table at all times. I believe it is important that all conflicts in relation to a project are well revealed. In the area we're talking about here, there's a lot of conflicts. They think I'm well-discovered. We have had consultation rounds where many recordings have been made, and we have been given the opportunity to assess them. In terms of cost-benefit analysis, it's an area I've worked a lot on. I also know that those analyses include, for example: not the environmental conflicts that we are talking about. We don't know what the natural environment means in heads and ears through these cost-benefit analyses. There are some elements we can never get calculated well enough, which we might never do, because it's not morally or ethically right to calculate them in heads and ears in an arithmetic. But there are values that lie there, that we don't want to lose or destroy. And it's very important to include them in the overall assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e188	I take the word for a public misunderstanding. I haven't said that the government has trick, mix or trick, to use her expression. So you can ask questions and answer them, and then you have to do some math on the way. Anyone who has followed the Ringeriksbahn over a few years can see that the cost-benefit ratio of the Kroksund option was actually at an early stage up to 1.2, and that he is now down to 1. Obviously, something has happened along the way here, and that is what the information is going on today. I live in the region and know him reasonably well. It was not meant to be any kind of criticism. But the question is simply, what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e195	There may be many reasons for such analyses to change. It may be that the traffic base calculated has changed, that costs have changed, etc. Many aspects of the analysis may have changed. It's important for me and for everyone else to relate to the numbers and take them for what they are. Another thing that's important is that we all have access to what's in the numbers, so that we can compare them. If one year there is a project that has a cost-benefit fraction of 1,2 and another year a cost-benefit fraction of 1, it shall be available to all and everyone in it and what is the reason for the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e202	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e207	I think this is a sad day for the Ringerix Railway. It is sad because today the majority actually park a good, forward-looking railway option – and not just the option that the Labour Party and I believe is the best. I believe that the Kroksund option and also the Åsa option are coming out of nowhere. I think the majority park an improvement and an abbreviation of the Bergensbanen for good. It's actually wrapped in a lot of kind of good words, but I honestly think there's a little cowardly way to do it. What is amazing is that the majority believes that ‘the Ring Road will meet many objectives, including reducing transport costs and limiting environmental impacts in the transport sector by increasing the use of the train as a collective means of transport’. I refer to what Thorbjørn Jagland said about how important it is in this case to wear a little bigger environmental glasses when discussing the environmental arguments. The majority also ignores the fact that we could get a good solution with the Kroksund option, which would make it possible to create ring tracks on the north-west side of Oslo and a possible connection to Gjøvikbanen. It would really have had a 15-20 year perspective and a little bit of suss over it if we had gotten it. The 700 million. if you spend more on a railway train, could be used to the benefit of e.g.: to rust up the Gjøvik track, which it sorely needs. I think it is a paradox that Sweden, without the wealth of money that we have, is doing like several other countries in Europe and betting on the railways as an environmentally friendly and safe transport option. The Swedes have decided to invest DKK 8.5 billion every year from 2004 to 2014. I have to say that Norway's ambitions are going to be very puzzling compared to this. I would like to say again that this is a sad day for Ringerijk, for Ringeriksbanen and for the possibilities of the railway in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e222	Earlier today, Bjørgulf Froyn and Sigrun Eng have criticised SV for leaving the 1992 Workers' Party agreement on Ringeriksbanen, by selecting the Åsa option. In addition, I actually also heard a hint of harelas when we focus on nature protection, landscape protection and cultural memory protection, which we do when we choose the Åsa option. I'll come back to that, but first to history. In 1992, the Workers' Party and SV signed a political agreement in Stortinget to support the work of Ringeriksbanen with a view to starting up during the 1994-97 planning period, and further that the track should not crowd out other railway projects. No decision was taken on the choice of trasé at that time. When Stortinget dealt with the Norwegian Railway Plan for 1994-97, this was followed up by earmarking 150 million. Mr Ringeriksbanen, with plans for start-up in 1997. But the Ringerix course was not prioritised. This was not followed up. In 1996, the Stortinget dealt with the Ringeriksbanen and the choice of trajectory. At that time, the Labour Party and the SV majority did not. The majority, who were then the bourgeois parties, were already healing against the Åsa option. But the Workers' Party and SV had a joint comment that both lines, Kroksund and Åsa, were to be investigated on equal terms. Then you can ask the question to Froyn, Eng and the others who have criticized us: why did the Workers' Party not go in for the Kroksund option in 1996, when this seems to be such an obvious matter? When the case is now being dealt with six years after, and 10 years after the first time, one cannot say that the course has been prioritised. But it can be seen as a fact that in these ten years the Labour Party has had the government power and the Minister for Transport for at least seven. For SV, this has not been a simple matter. We have weighed for and against, and we sincerely want the track to be built. But what has been heavy on the scale for us has been the fact that we have international obligations through the Ramsar Convention, and the fact that there is virtually no time difference in travel time between Bergen and Oslo and between Hönefoss and Oslo, regardless of the choice of trasé. What then remains as a fact is that with today's railway allocation, the Ringerix Railway will not be built, regardless of trasé options, until in 10–15–20 years. The same will be true of the Labour Party's budgetary options in the year's budget. If the track is to be built earlier, the framework for railway investment must be increased radically, at least DKK 1 billion per. in the next 10–15 years, and then we're talking about a total allocation to the railway of nearly 20 billion kroner. That won't be 700 million. kr, which distinguishes one option from the other, decisively. To be honest, I think such a commitment will be difficult if the Government is to cooperate with the Progress Party on the budgets for the rest of this period. The installation to Kenneth Svendsen earlier today said a lot about it. If we're going to build the Ringerix Railway, we're going to have to invest more on the railway. It wants SV, and we're going to get back to it when we're going to deal with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e242	I think it's nice to hear that you use the price – the difference in the price of 700 million. kr – as an argument that the majority in Stortinget does not want to build this railway. If you didn't want to build the railway, you could stick to the attitude of the Progress Party, you'd be done with it. For the Christian People's Party, there is no hidden agenda in relation to this. But we are clear that in the case of the Ringerix Railway, we want it to be as good as possible and that it should take care of the necessary concerns about nature and the environment and the international commitments we have undertaken. This path will be important for the Oslo–Bergen traffic, but it will also be important for the Henefoss–Oslo local traffic and for a competitive alternative to aircraft and cars for the Bergen–Voss area. It will also be important for the Hallingdal region of travel life, and it will be important for achieving the Ringerix region as a relief region for the Oslo region. I think it is a widespread agreement that the Ringeriksbahn as such will have a very positive effect and be a good investment. However, if it were to be given priority over the other railway options – or development – that have been pointed out elsewhere, it would mean pushing other things aside. The prioritisation must be done, and in the Christian People's Party we have stated that yes, we want the Ringerix track, but there are other alternatives, or other expansions, that must come before it. I think, and I would like to stress strongly, that the Ringerix Railway is not an airlock. It is an important planning phase that you are in, and when it is implemented, it will have a great effect, which I hope will also help to ensure that nature and the environment are protected as they are currently provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e253	For us, the Trasé choice for the Ringerix Railway means, from Hordaland, reduced travel time between Bergen and Oslo. The aim, as it stands, is ‘to strengthen the competitiveness of Bergensbanen by ensuring Bergen and Voss a competitive transport option for aircraft and cars’. The mountain is the second largest city in the country. It's right, as it says, there's a lot of people traveling by plane, but the jam is also a lot of people traveling by air. From Voss there is no other option, if you are not going to Bergen first and then use flights to Oslo, which gives you longer travel time than if you use the route to Oslo. In addition, of course, there is a large amount of people who live in the Ringerix region, who will take advantage of the track and have shorter travel time to Oslo. Since 1992, we have been working on the trajectory, and it is clear that disappointment is great when, to put it that way, one feels that for ten years one has been working on the track, and then to end up with a project that a believer is not built, because one chooses the most expensive one. What makes you feel that this path is not going to be built, with the trasé option being made today? Let me first say that railway is an environmental project in itself. The option for the Ringerix region is car, and it takes much larger area than the railway. But there is little enthusiasm in the government constellation of the current chosen path. It is not difficult to understand after following the whole debate today. There's a lot of enthusiasm in the Center Party and SV. I have no reason to criticize that. I think they mean very clearly what they say. But when the government fraction is so little enthusiastic and it's the Progress Party to secure its economic priorities when it comes to the railway, and they say quite clearly that they are against this project and will not give priority to it, give the answer to themselves for me. This is a sad day for the railway between Bergen and Oslo. And it's a sad day for us who were at this horse trade in 1992. Of the three projects, the tunnel in Sogn and Fjordane has been completed. We didn't get the wedding project in Hardanger. We were promised that the journey time between Bergen and Oslo would be cut short, and we would choose a trajectory for the Ringeriksbanen. I'm afraid he'll be left tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e264	Otherwise, the president will say that there is a way to see how unsafe a horse dealer can really be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e267	I'm aware that the president is not happy with too many three-minute posts, but this is a matter of great commitment, not least in the Labour Party, as this debate must have shown, and I can't quite speak to myself. When it was in 1992, it was a compromise. We probably had different favorite options already then, and then we were able to figure out both. Now we have both been paid out, but we have always been completely in the direction of the option that is being voted down today. We still do. So there's a question of how we're going to get this done – if we get it done. If we're going to get an abbreviation of the Bergensbahn, we're going to get to a ringhole where people travel, a path that's not just good for the natural environment, but that's also a path where people travel and don't push the road? I must say that when the representative Marthinsen says that 700 million. kr is nothing to care about, he must be in a loose committee, for in our committee is 700 million. to the railway an infinite amount of money. Think about how many crossing tracks you can get for 700 million. kr, to bring goods and people forward much faster! We could maybe get that cop, who made a transition to the Gjøvik track for the 700 million. kr. And then we're going to use them extra on a wrong trasé! Not only should we use the extra, but we should use them on a wrong track! But then, unfortunately, in the Labour Party, not least in the last year, we have had good training in working for the second best option. We're going to conform to principle, and then we're going to try to make the best of it. That's what we're going to do in this case too, but today we're disappointed. We think it's wrong, and we're terrified that there won't be any plurality in this room to fight the Ringerix track. We're terrified of it, because we hear what the Progress Party says. We don't think the Government will do this, at least not the entire Government, and then it's going to be hard to get an alternative. But we're used to living with compromises. We pursue practical policies, and then we have to swallow some defeats, and then we have to go on and work for the second best option.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e296	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e307	The Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment has three main projects: the urban railway, the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel. The programme shall be financed by State resources, tolls, county funds and municipal resources. Tolls shall be required into the Bergen bombing ring and shall be collected for more than 10 years. In total, almost NOK 2.3 billion is to be collected in tolls. A broad majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, supports this funding package. It is positive for urban development and for the environment in Bergen that the revenue from the bombing should be used, inter alia: to build an urban railway. The Bergen programme may differ from many other programmes we have dealt with in the Committee on Transport, because it has well-defined objectives. The objectives of the Bergen programme include: traffic growth must be mitigated, urban development must reduce transport needs and the environmental impact of traffic must be reduced. There is good reason to note that increased car accessibility is not one of the objectives of the programme. On the other hand, as I said, the growth of traffic must be reduced, the environmental impact of car traffic reduced and urban development should contribute to less transport needs. A broad majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, supports the objectives of the Bergen Programme. The same majority point out that Bergen has major environmental and transport challenges. According to estimates by the State Pollution Control Agency, up to 140 people die a year of bad air in Bergen. Traffic growth has the Committee noted that it is higher in Bergen than in the rest of the country, and that the proportion of people travelling collectively has fallen. A majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party, sees the need for a trend break in this development, for us to achieve higher collective proportions, and for traffic growth to be reduced. The objectives of the Bergen Programme must be achieved, and a majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, asks the Government to report on the development of the Programme in the light of its objectives. The same majority of the committee underlines the importance of strengthening the collective offer in Bergen. The main collective action in the package is the construction of urban railways. A minority, members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, stress that a city railway can become the future backbone of the Bergen collective system. T-rail systems and urban rail systems are very efficient transport providers, and we have a hope that the Bergen urban railway will be the same for Bergen as the Bergen T-rail has become for the capital. But it's a crossroads of thought that with the demands we make today at cost-benefit in the short term, we might never have built the T-Bahn that we're totally dependent on today in Oslo. Should the T-Bahn from the Major Room to Tøen, which runs in the tunnel, be replaced by road, we would have needed a 12-field highway across Oslo. The fact that Bergen will be given the city track will help to shape Bergen for many years to come and will also guide the development of the area. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centerpartiet want a rapid transfer of the city track to Flesland. In the case of Ringveg west, SV is on its own in the Committee. The construction of the Ringveg west will, as we see it, lay the basis for increased traffic growth in the Bergen region. Good road capacity in urban areas has historically always generated increases in road traffic and reduced collective proportions. Against this background, we believe that there is reason to ask questions about the objectives of the Bergen programme on dampened traffic growth and increased collective proportions are associated with the construction of the Ringveg west. Finally, I would like to take up a small incursion on page 6 of the setting. There is a note from the members of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre that ‘have noticed that self-financing requirements are higher in road investments than in public transport’. It should obviously be the opposite, and I'm asking that this be corrected. My heart is beating for the city track. At the same time, I would like to demand a slightly greater commitment from the government fraction – a little more booze. If we're going to be proud of something after this period, it has to be if we can get the construction of an urban railway in Bergen started. I want to promote SV's proposal, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e342	Heidi Sørensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e347	In the previous debate, SV told us that they were willing to go far to avoid compromises, because the compromises could mean something, in the sense that something could be done. The representative Sørensen formulated itself so that SV was in favour of the Åsa option, regardless of the lack of beating hearts in the government parties. Now I also heard that she was concerned that the heart beat for the city track in Bergen. This Bergen application is based on three pillars. It has created a broad political majority in the Bergen for the Bergen programme. It's the Skansen Tunnel, it's the Ring Road, and it's the City Railway. Everyone knows that someone has put a price on the road to get to this. When the Bergen programme is based on these three pillars, why is it so important for the Socialist Left Party to formulate in the setting both for the Ring Road and for the Skansen Tunnel, the question of whether these two projects conflict with the objectives of the Bergen Programme? When I bring this up, it's not because it's important to take that debate, but it's important for me to say it. Here is another kind of message that the fight against two of the three parts of the Bergen programme will continue. Will SV now take note that these three elements are adopted, so that it becomes the urban path, it becomes the roadway, and it becomes the scan tunnel – and is SV both locally and here in the Stortinget behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e356	The broad majority behind the Bergen programme in Bergen is not part of SV. The broad majority are the Right, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Neither the Left, the SV nor the Advance Party are part of that majority. When we deal with these packages, it's pretty interesting what we're really going to decide. What we are actually considering is an authorisation for the toll company to start the collection. In fact, we do not guarantee every project. We're going to come back to that, project for project. For me, it was important to make some reservations in relation to some of the projects in the Bergen programme, not least because the need to ensure quality is clearly written in this programme. There are also road projects in the programme, and I think it is appropriate to assess whether these are correct in the light of the objectives. We have seen reason to ask the Ministry of Transport to consider in particular whether the requirement that large road projects should always consider a collective option is met in connection with the construction of the Ringveg west. So that's how we're going to get back to this. When my heart beats for the highway, it should be allowed to do so! It is allowed to knock hard to build a railway in Bergen, without at the same time having to go in to build a polluting road section.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e367	A question to the SV representative – a question that could have been tempting to ask many: SV is a party that is happy in collective solutions. What is it that makes SV now support a highly uncertain urban railway project, which can potentially provide a very expensive collective solution for parts of the population of Bergen, and chooses a bus bet? A bus investment will be effective for the whole city, for all collective users, and will probably have a much lower price tag for investment and a much better socio-economic benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e372	A bus option could never form the backbone of a collective system in a city as large as Bergen. I'm tempted to say that all cities that are big enough to have respect for themselves as a big city deserve a railing collective system. I believe that Bergen is big enough to deserve it, so my heart beats to get Bergen to a city track. An urban runway will be a more environmentally friendly solution than a further bet on a bus, it will also have extra passengers that a bus will never be able to take. What we see in all cities with rail traffic is that there are collective shares higher than where you have bus options. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre have been so far in this setting and said that it is the path we are going for. I am also very pleased that the studies ordered by many of the most angry opponents of an urban railway in Bergen, which was carried out by SINTEF, show that the social benefits of an urban railway are higher than those of the comparable bus option. Let me say it this way: Bergen deserves a path. Let me hope that if we get to this first step, it will be the first step towards what will in the future be the completely natural backbone of the collective system in what is actually Norway's second largest city, and that should be big enough and have respect enough for itself to see that it is a path solution they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e381	I am glad that SV thinks it is important that we, who come from Bergen, get a path to kiss us with. I fully agree with that. That is why we are invited today to adopt St. Prp. No 76 for 2001-2002 on partial toll financing. But then, in a reply, the case-rapporteur said that she was in favour of accepting the toll financing only for the city track. In order for us to be in favour of tolls in relation to what is in the proposition, the Bergen programme to be adopted is not the city track. Because if we're just going to go for the city track, we don't even have to add 50 pst. on the toll rates in Bergen. And then it's going to be a completely different problem than the one in St. pp. No Seventy-six. In fact, I think SV and the case rapporteur must start to become sober.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e388	I had a little bit of difficulty understanding where the audacity came in here. It is important to point out how we deal with such issues: this is an authorisation to collect tolls for a programme. All the elements of that programme must be quality assurance in future processes and we will have them submitted to the Stortinget. There we go into and decide on the individual projects in the package or programme as such. For me, it has been imperative to ensure me, when there is a major road project here, that we are sure that we have investigated the collective alternatives to the Ringveg West in such a way that the requirements of such investigations have been met. In the same way, I have registered that others think it has been equally important that the requirements of the urban railway are quality assured, so that you are sure that it is a profitable project. As these matters have been raised, we need to deal with matters of commerce. I understand that it can be confusing for many: when are we really dealing with reality and what are we really going for? But there has been no secret that SV is not part of the broad majority in Bergen who have accepted the program as such, and that it is due to the resistance to Ringveg west. But what we can all promise is that working for the city track we would have done even if there was no such thing as the Bergen program. And when there's something called the Bergen Program, we're going to use everything that says there, because it's worth it, to make sure it's built such a great path in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e398	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e401	"You don't have to go to Bergen, and you save a bit on it," was the name of a show some years ago. I've been in Bergen up to several times in the last year, not because it's not raining where I come from. to put me in the middle of the transport challenges in Bergen. The mountains are a nice city, with fjords and mountains, which have great challenges for people to come forward, while it's lively to live and stay there. Traffic is increasing, the collective share is falling, and environmental problems are growing. At the end of the day, with the support of the county council, the municipality has developed a programme for transport, urban development and the environment. The aim is to reduce the growth of car traffic, increase the collective share, improve the environment and improve road safety. The medium is, as referred to by the case-speaker, increased bet on public transportRingveg westSkansentunnel In addition, the programme includes the resolution of bottlenecks on the main road network and other measures on the road network which increase the number of road and cycle roads, road safety measures and environmental measures. The stork is, as I said, invited today to agree on the collection of tolls for partial funding of the Bergen programme. Decisions on the individual project shall be taken in the annual budgetary management following the completion of the necessary distributions, planning guidelines and quality estimates. Nevertheless, today is an important day for Bergen. It is today that we are giving a starting signal for an important and very extensive effort to improve the situation for both people and cars in Bergen. The majority rely on a solid local multiple. This support is fine-tuned and applies to the entire program. The proposal that is before you today from the Progress Party, for which you will probably do well, is a proposal that has no local support. Many might think of more money from the state, but local politicians know that it's unrealistic to get multiple numbers for the huge gains it will require to say no to all toll funding in Norway, as the Progress Party does. This year, the Progress Party received 150 million. kr more to compromise with the Government, but there is a long way to go until the approximately 2 billion that one gets into the tolls of the year. In addition, the local plurality is a plurality that counts with the Bergensbana. So this is a pure demonstration proposal from the Progress Party. SV provides on the other hand a familiar skepticism of the Ringveg west, and asks for a collective alternative to the road. It would also lead to the fragmentation of the majority locally, and therefore is not worth any special for those who want solutions, no more plans. You cannot extract the parts from an application which is first handled locally, and where one is found at the local compromise. It's about saying yes or no, and those who pick parts say no. The collective section in Bergen is small and goes down a little bit. Therefore, it is good that the programme invests in collective action. In fact, as much as 45 pst. the funds shall be used for collective purposes; to Bergensbana, which I hope it will be possible to pass on to Flesland without delay in the design and expansion of a well-developed food system to the city track as well as 7 km of collective fields along existing national and county roads I agree with the department that this bet is a trend break. Surprisingly, only a minority are asking that self-financing requirements for road and collective projects should be set aside. The Labour Party is part of a multiplicity with the Government Party and the Center Party that joins the programme as it stands. The majority point to the advantages of parallelity in the development and completion of road and collective action. Although new offers can create new travel habits, in the Workers' Party we see this as a little topical in Bergen when the new road and the new path are quite far from each other. In minority with the Center Party and SV, we agree to point to that the main collective action is the construction of the urban railway, and that the bus option should not be extended further that it is undesirable to extend the route to the Fleslandat tolling system to facilitate the use of road pricing by the municipality of Bergen to limit traffic growth in Bergen, and that demarcation should be considered. Plans are handled, yes or no, and return options are available today, and are not used to extract basic elements as a proxy for local multiples. I am pleased that Bergen's Official Journal has revealed this in this case. A beating heart of Bergensbana, for which Sørensen's representative spoke, I also have, but it's not enough, it's not worth anything if the mountainzars don't get Ringveg west. There is no way to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e455	One of the most beautiful and proud cities in the Nordic region needs to be renewed. Old Bergen is hit by the people's diseases of shortness of breath and constipation. A city for the future must city of more than aesthetics. Urban planning must ensure a land use where value creation, prosperity, well-being, good living conditions and decent natural use are to be intertwined in a common tissue. It's not an easy task, but mountainers are not afraid of what's difficult. Responsible mountain policy-makers across traditional dividing lines have worked purposefully to reach agreement on some significant urban development principles. This is what they called the Bergen Program. The Bergen programme is triggered by a situation of annual traffic growth of between 3 and 6 p.p., while public transport has had a negative development. This is a combination that's unfortunate for the living environment, it's unfortunate for prosperity, and it's unfortunate for business transport. Everything suggests further traffic growth in the coming years. Even now, air pollution is sometimes so high that it is dangerous to the health of vulnerable groups. The socio-economic costs of harmful mountain air have been calculated by the SFT at a cost of DKK 1.8 billion per year. years. On this basis, good forces in Bergen – Bergen municipality, Hordaland county municipality and Statens vägvesen Hordaland – have presented their programme. It is urban development, it is transport, and it is environmental. The Bergen programme consists of nine sub-targets. Traffic growth shall decrease, the collective share shall have a greater share of traffic growth, the capacity of the road network shall be optimised, the environmental impact of road traffic shall be reduced and the centre shall be protected from undesirable traffic. A coherent network of walking and cycling routes shall be built, the number of road accidents shall be reduced and, in particular, it is essential that future urban development has a plan of how man’s various functions — housing, work, leisure — are geographically positioned in relation to each other, with the least possible route and the best possible use of available infrastructure. The instruments intended to be used for these purposes consist of a collective section, the construction of the Ringveg west, the construction of the Skansen tunnel and environmental measures with continuous walking and cycling networks. The programme is a parallel effort on road and public transport. A metro between Flesland and the centre is costing SEK 2.2 billion, Ringveg west to NOK 2 billion, and the Skansen tunnel to SEK 350 million. kr. Local authorities have provided that the urban runway is fully financed by tolls and by the State budget. Local authorities have also undertaken quality assurance work, where urban railways are also assessed against bus options. So far – and I'm glad – it looks like a city track has a better cost-benefit than the bus option. There are still unresolved questions about the Bergen programme. Construction and operational responsibilities for the urban railway are one, operating grants for supplementary bus lines are another. Otherwise, the urban runway and the Ringweg may start in 2005, if all is done as planned. We assume that the department will come back to Stortinget when these questions are settled. At this crossroads, it is the basic issues for funding the Bergen programme, including toll financing, that we are going to address. Christian People's Party and Right recommend the Government's proposals, and wish Bergen good luck with the projects. Bergen politicians in the Workers' Party, in the Right and in the Christian People's Party have in this matter dared to take some political burdens with a view to making Bergen a better city to live and work in. It forces respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e473	In recent years, the right has been one of the hottest supporters of the financing of all road development with new barriers. In case after case, for the last five years, I have been standing alone, and it has been the Right who has studied this through. In Oslo, too, much of the bombing revenue goes to public transport, and that's the last speaker's place of residence. Then the representative says Kjästad that he believes and wants the Bergen urban railway to start in 2005. Does the Right Urban Railway have first priority in Bergen? And how are they going to finance the city track? Do they want to go into the same tactics as they use anywhere else – that it is the poor drivers who will be paid for completely different things from what they use this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e480	Thore Nistad has misunderstood the Right on one point. He said that we are eager advocates of toll financing and for all these user-paid projects that appear here and there. Now we are in this situation in the Right that we should first of all be remembered because the Right provided Norway with transport projects. We stand for a policy where getting people on wheels and on rails is more important than other considerations. Then we have to achieve one compromise on the other in that context as well. As far as my home country is concerned, I have fought for this main road project in Oslo. I've fought for it, and I'm very proud of it. The Progress Party is now continuing to highlight the main road project in Oslo as an example for follow-up. I'll give you the name afterwards. And I'm very proud that we did. But it is clear that we did not because we wanted to pay tolls, but the state did not stand there with the money. And at the moment that the state comes with money to a state, we'll of course say clearly from that point on, we'll build down every bombardment we have. But rather than dying in the exhaust gas and the fact that business transport does not come forward, we have chosen to do it this way. And it's going to be up to the individual states to make a choice. In the case of urban railways, no decision has been taken on what is to be done concretely on the collective side. It was investigated in these days. We'll get back to that. What we've been invited by the Government to think about in this context is whether we're going to participate in toll financing these projects that we've been talking about here. And then we come back to the single project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e489	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e492	When the tolling in Bergen was introduced on 2 January 1986, it was after a turbulent political process, with strong resistance from the city’s population. Still promises that the tolls would be added to government appropriations and that the toll rates would be kept at a low level have been broken. Now the government invites to break a third promise, the promise that the toll would be removed after 15 years, which is common for tolls. Now the toll in Bergen has been in operation for 17 years, two years longer than what you really were supposed to do. This lifting break does not want the Progress Party to be in. The inhabitants of Bergen have paid enough, and we therefore want to complete the entire bombing process. The proposition mentions something called the urban railway project. I don't really know what an urban railway project is going to consist of, but it's calculated at 920 million. kr. And I wouldn't be surprised if the so-called urban railway project was approaching NOK 2 billion instead of NOK 1 billion. That's what we're used to when it comes to projects like this. The Progress Party has clearly stated that we will base public transport in Bergen on the bus instead of this so-called urban railway project. The Progress Party will therefore go in to expand the Bergen programme according to the plans that the Government has put forward – we agree – but without including the so-called urban track. I will be allowed to address the proposal that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e505	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e510	Today they open a new trasé in Bergen, Midtun-Hop. It is the last of the large toll loads in the toll package established in 1986. Well, NOK 1 billion has been paid by road users, and the state has been with almost twice that. People in Bergen and the municipalities in the surrounding area are happy that one has managed to build the large projects around Bergen with a toll financing, and so it has our interest both from people and, of course, politicians, because there is a broad majority in the city council in Bergen and in the county municipality that wants to continue with a tolling in Bergen when it comes to three major projects: the Skansen tunnel, the Ringveg west and the urban railway project. I'm not going to argue with what the urban railway project is for, because I think the representative Nistad knows that. There's a lot of insecurity in big projects, but there's over $4 billion to invest in the region there. And then a broad political plurality both here and in Bergen wants to continue with the tolling. And then I want to ask Nistad if he doesn't like the mountain people to get these projects now, because I don't believe anything about the Progress Party being able to finance these projects from the state budget. It is absolutely necessary for the region to continue to finance these projects by means of tolls. I find it sad that the Progress Party does not see that it is absolutely necessary for these three projects to be brought to port. Even with the two projects, I think it's important tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e521	Well, of course, we're going through these projects in the mountains. And we love them even more, but we love them in the road sector. You have a calculation of $4 billion. No, we don't want the city track, and there we have well over $1 billion, maybe $2 billion. In our alternative budget, we suggest that we want to build up roads, increase road investment by SEK 5.5 billion per year. years, and that's quite a different number from the Labour Party's in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e529	The mountains face major challenges in traffic management. Some of these challenges can be addressed by expanding the road network, including: by building the Ringveg west. But we don't solve all the problems of improving the road network. The availability of roads and the environment also requires that we bet on public transport, whether it be a bus or a train. In recent days, we have received reports from Bergen on poor air quality, and road traffic is helping to reduce air quality. The Progress Party pays little attention to the challenges of public transport in Bergen, with the exception of their approach to the urban railways. In fact, they propose that the collective effort in the Bergen programme be zeroed, and the Progress Party notifies in the setting of any strengthening of public transport in Bergen through increased appropriations. Does not the Progress Party believe that there is a need to strengthen public transport in the Bergen region? How should any increased investment be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e540	The right has become a very hot champion so that now everything is to be solved by means of public transport. In fact, the Progress Party is in favour of strengthening public transport in Bergen. But we've said that we're not in favour of such a big air lock as the so-called urban runway. We've said that the problems in Bergen can be solved by bus, which is a good alternative. So both right-wing representatives have been very eager and talked about that there is now so bad air in Bergen, it's almost so bad that soon no one is able to live in that city anymore. But then I just have to remind Right of all the ideas that the Progress Party has, and ask why they don't go in for them – such as for example. increased wreckage on cars, so we replaced the car park. Lower electricity charges gave them the opportunity to join the budget now. Then people might have fired electricity instead of going over to wood, coke and so on. The solutions are also there for Bergen, although Bergen has now become both a plague and a cholera in terms of air pollution. There's also one more thing about buses. When they put bus routes on offer, or they get someone who wants to drive collectively, why doesn't the city council in Bergen demand a Euro 2 standard on the buses? It's no harder than that. Today, the new, modern buses can go largely without emissions. There are no nasty vomits of some old buses running today. You have new, modern buses, and they're just as good as the so-called "Cityway" to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e553	The fact that the Advance Party has a dogmatic love for the car is nothing new. Locally, the Progress Party is known as the asphalt's best friend, and I must say that I have sometimes wondered whether it may be that some representatives of the Advance Party have the same relationship with the exhaust gas as some other people have with tobacco! There is something impressive in the permanence and permanence of the Progress Party in opposing any action which is not primarily aimed at building more roads and opening up more cars. And I think this is when impressive heights in the setting, when the Progress Party can't even agree to the comment that mentions the positive in getting a lift for walking and cycling routes in the city. In a situation where children in Bergen have to stay indoors because they get airway plagues from being out, the Progress Party does not have any other measures than those relating to roads and more cars. I would like to ask the representative Nistad to explain to us why it is that the Progress Party is not even able to support a bet on something as simple and relatively cheap as several times and bike paths in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e562	When I look beyond this hall here, I think I have to see the last inhabitants of Bergen City, because as bad pollution as it is in Bergen, obviously this is the last chance. I myself have been to Bergen and have not experienced that they are so badly placed in Bergen as the representatives here say. The representative Bjørlo Lysbakken said that the Advance Party is «the best friend of the asphalt». Yes, I'm proud that the Progress Party calls the car a best friend, I! What would we do in Norway without the car? It would have been totally hopeless. One can go from Bergen to Oslo. There was a certain man who would do it after a choice, but he did not go all the way, he had to jump on a car along the way, he too. - So that's it. So to the measures against air pollution. I just mentioned that in my previous reply. I had more solutions. In the budget, I have to repeat that one more time, we would reduce the electricity charge. This would solve many problems for those with asthma and problems in Bergen. We've said that we want to increase the wreckage. And to mention another thing I forgot: we want to charge the cars so that we get newer cars. The new cars today have a completely different technical standard than 10 years ago. We have an average age in the car park in Norway, which is equivalent to what Turkey has, in 11 1⁄2 years. It's not exactly much to brag about when we're the richest country in the world. So the representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, said that the Advance Party is the «best friend of the asphalt». Yes, I would like to admit that we have little investment in walking and cycling routes, and should like more. But when we're going to solve the problems in Bergen, we want to go in for the tunnel and the bypass first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e576	The Christian People's Party is saying yes to the Bergen programme and therefore also yes to increased prosperity and a better environment in Bergen. The implementation of the Bergen programme is important in order to improve the environment and to increase accessibility. The development of better public transport involves a trend break, where public transport is to take a greater part of traffic growth, thus helping to reduce the problems of increased traffic expected on the road network. The Christian People's Party sees it as a prerequisite for the Bergen programme to respond to the long-term transport and environmental challenges of the urban community. The aim shall be to reduce the growth of car traffic, increase the proportion of public passenger, improve the environment and road safety and reduce transport costs for commercial traffic. The objectives of the Bergen programme are well under way in line with the priorities of the ‘Better public transport’, which we have addressed for some time. Public transport is referred to as the backbone of the transport system in the large cities. The environmental and transport challenges in Bergen are major. According to State pollution control, the problems of air pollution in Bergen are serious. SFT estimates show that 140 mountainers die prematurely each year as a result of air pollution and that socio-economic costs amount to DKK 1.8 billion each year. These are very serious numbers that you have to do something with. The growth in car traffic has also been higher in Bergen than in the rest of the country, and the collective share has fallen. The Bergen programme is the answer to these challenges and, as many have said, implies the necessary trend break that we believe will lead to a dampening of traffic growth, a reduction in environmental pressures and greater collective proportions in the future. On parts of the road network in Bergen, traffic has reached a level that creates major problems for its accessibility. The main focus of the transport system in Bergen has been the development of a decent main road network since the mid-1980s. This has also led to increased accessibility for both the private car and public transport and has relieved Bergen’s transit centre. The improvements have been greatest for users of private cars; they have to be admitted. In the Christian People's Party we see that there is still a need to increase the capacity of the road network in and around the city. That's why we're on the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel, and we're looking at this as important pieces in the whole. But at the same time, it is desirable for the Christian People's Party to pay particular attention to the possibilities of developing a better collective bus service on the new road sections that are part of the Bergen programme, in order to meet the negative developments in public transport that Bergen has had for a long time. The Bergen programme provides for increased public transport by bus and by urban rail, the upgrading of the centre areas that have been unloaded for road traffic, and a continuous walking and cycling network to and through the city shall be established. The urban route between the centre and Flesland is defined as the main individual project. In addition, promotion measures and priority for public transport, such as buses and taxis, shall be implemented on both the external and the central roads. In the Christian People's Party, we're pleased that the government has made $5 million. kr on the 2002 state budget to support the planning of an urban railway in Bergen. The allocation could allow for the carrying out of investigations necessary to follow-up the requirements for documentation on alternative use of public roads and tolls. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that there must be a parallelity in the rate of expansion, so that the urban road is not pushed out on time in relation to the road projects. It is very important that no new travel patterns are created until collective solutions are in place. The Christian People's Party wants to invest in the environment and public transport. We have therefore noticed that the Bergen programme has received broad local support, and that the programme contains a balanced effort on public transport and road. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of the Bergen programme leading to a strengthening of public transport in the city. Locally, there is a strong commitment to the choice of the urban runway as a collective solution for Bergen, and the Christian People's Party takes note of this. Now there's been a lot of talk about hearts beating for the city track. In the Christian People's Party, we say that the heart does not beat primarily for the city track, but that the heart beats for the best collective solution for Bergen, and at the moment we think it's a city track. Then the investigations that are coming will show you if that's right. But we think the urban route is what can now be the solution for the future. We also see the importance of not ending at Nesttun, but of finally ending at Flesland. We support partial toll funding for the Bergen programme according to the guidelines recommended locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e615	I'll quote from the proposition to ask the question: ‘In addition to the operation of the urban railway, the system requires an upgraded bus offer. Such an upgraded bus offer will require significant annual operating grants. The way in which this is to be financed has not been finally decided.’ When the Christian People's Party then wholeheartedly supports the urban orbit as a collective solution for parts of the city, they are of course aware that part of the funding is missing. Well, they've come up with an opinion about how they're going to finance what's shown and that's missing from the proposition. As I have said several times, the city track provides a collective offer to parts of the city. To expand the collective offer for the rest of the city, it will also require funds. I guess it also has a financing solution for the Christian People's Party, and I wonder what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e627	I would say, as I said in my post, that in the Christian People's Party we are engaged in finding the best solutions for public transport in Bergen. I also said that my heart is beating primarily to get the best possible collective offer. The city track is under investigation, and we're going to get an answer from the department. Each case will come back to Stortinget. At the moment, the Christian People's Party believes that the city track is the best option. If investigations were to show otherwise, we are willing to reconsider our position on the matter. But at the moment, there's nothing to suggest it compared to what we have of documentation per. today. I also said that when it comes to building new roads within the same program, we want to join and facilitate that it is also going to be economics for it, so that we can get a satisfactory collective solution there also by bus. I'm going to think that here we have to take each part of the program and find funding solutions when we get it presented to us. At the moment, it is certainly as problematic for the Progress Party as for the Christian People's Party to say something about the final prize of the Bergen Programme in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e636	Of course, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is involved both in Bergen and in the county and here at Stortinget to meet these challenges that Bergen faces, with the Bergen programme. There's been a lot of talk about the heart bank, and I have to say that my heart banks most when I'm in line at Ringveg west, or what's going to be Ringveg west in a few years, because I never reach the plane when I'm going to Oslo. So there is a need to build up both for public transport and for road transport. But it wasn't my heart bank I was most busy now. Now I'm the most busy financing. In the setting, there are some comments on funding, where the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre say that they are largely in line with the funding to which it has been provided. But they would stress that the construction of the urban railway in Bergen qualifies for the use of the alternative use of national road vehicles. My question is, what is the reason why the government party and the Christian People's Party do not want to be part of this formulation? Can the representative explain if there is any reason why they are not on it? It is greedily important to be able to use these national roadways for the city track.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e645	It's good with the beating hearts. For the two things the Committee on Transport has had on the agenda today, there have been beating hearts. It puts an extra tip on the debate, and it shows that there are important issues for most people that the Committee on Transport is concerned about, and that this government brings to the square. First of all, in the case of Ringveg west, we have a common banking for it. The Christian People's Party agrees that the Ringveg West may also have a possible start parallel to a city track. What we have stressed is that the urban or collective solutions in question must not come back, as is often the case. As far as funding is concerned, I will come back to what I said in the previous line, that it is not useful today to speculate on price and how the projects may be financed. We'll have to decide when we get every project on the table. What I can promise is that the Christian People's Party has first said yes to the Bergen programme, we will also be involved in financing it, and we will take responsibility for the price tag that is put on the table when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e655	Something over a year ago we were through a campaign where the Christian People's Party locally in Hordaland had a very high profile when it came to public transport, and ran around with money to go to this. Locally, in particular, the city railway was a high priority wish, and it was a central promise to the voters. I must say that I am very disappointed. I think many of those who voted Christian People's Party for this reason are disappointed by the commitment that has been shown since then. There are two areas in which I want to challenge concretely. One is what Ranveig Frøiland took up in his reply: Why can't the Christian People's Party join in and make sure that there is a majority for a note where the Storting expresses its desire for a rapid continuation of the city route to Flesland? The second question is also addressed by Ranveig Frøiland, the alternative use of pesticides. It has been a very central wish from the municipality of Bergen. We have all received letters about it. We know that establishing that the urban runway qualifies for this scheme will be absolutely central to funding. These two areas have been said by the Christian People's Party that they have been in favour, but one leaves to create a majority for it in this Chamber and in the Committee. Then I think that with all due respect you should be able to ask for a clear answer as to what this is due to. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party has become more lukewarm in relation to the city course? Or does that mean that it's government cooperation with the traditionally slightly more urban-sceptic Right that binds the Christian People's Party up to a point that you wouldn't otherwise have taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e664	I understand that SV is disappointed with the Christian People's Party and this government despite the fact that we have presented a budget with the greatest collective effort ever made by some government. But that's the possibility of the opposition constantly expressing a new disappointment. Then to the Bergen program and the city track. The Christian People's Party fully supports the construction of an urban railway in Bergen. We are fully committed to the Bergen programme, as presented by the Cooperation Government. So I can't believe there's any reason to be disappointed. So that's how the opposition will always be at the front of the notes. That's the same thing here. The Christian People's Party's position is that there's five million set aside. to an investigation to be carried out before the final financing is in order. When we sit with the amount and see what this will cost, we will also be involved in discussing the use of alternative approaches as a funding base. But before the investigation comes, we won't go to the step of prescribing how we're going to finance this. We will come back to that when the project is presented to us in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e676	The thing we're dealing with today is the main lines and the principle in the Bergen programme. In addition, we shall take a stand for partial toll financing of the Bergen programme. The details of the individual project, we're going to come back to it. At the open hearings of the Bergen Programme Committee, representatives from the municipality of Bergen made it clear that the Bergen Programme was a package that the majority of the Bergen City Council did not intend to be split up, and that parts of the program did not need to be removed from the package. I am aware that there are differences of opinion between the parties in Bergen City Council on parts of the Bergen Programme. But I haven't met anyone who doesn't think anything has to be done with the traffic situation in Bergen. The mountains have experienced a strong growth in road traffic, and in several places traffic has reached a level that makes it difficult to reach. It is therefore necessary to initiate measures to meet the traffic challenges in Bergen. An important part of the Bergen programme is the commitment to public transport. Collective action involves several actions, but the urban path between the centre and Nesttun and beyond to Flesland is defined as the main single project. The city railway shall be the main trunk of the public transport system in the south corridor of Bergen. However, measures to prioritize public transport on main roads and access roads and other measures to facilitate the development of public transport are also important elements of the collective sector. The aim is for public transport to increase traffic. The traffic in Bergen has been very large in recent years, larger than many other places in the country, while the collective section has fallen. It is therefore urgent to initiate measures that can increase the collective dimension and reduce traffic problems. By contrast, in the future Bergen will have longer periods of intoxication, which will also lead to increased environmental problems in the form of noise, dust and emissions. The biggest road project in the Bergen program is Ringveg west. This project will leverage the Sandsli and Kokstad areas of communication. The Sandsli and Kokstad areas have seen strong growth in workplaces and housing. The capacity of the existing road network is shattered, and the Ringweg West will solve many of the problems that have arisen and will improve road safety and reduce environmental pollution. We can therefore say that the Ringveg West also has positive elements for both road safety and when it is necessary to reduce environmental disadvantages. Just Ringveg west is perhaps the project in the Bergen program that has met the strongest objections. But as I have already mentioned, the project solves the capacity problems in an area that has had very strong growth. In addition, it will give the Sandsli and Kokstad area closer contact with the municipalities west of Bergen. Based on these arguments, the Center Party supports Ringway West's extension. Another road and tunnel project in the Bergen programme is the Skansen tunnel. This tunnel will relieve traffic in parts of the Bergen Centre, but at the same time it will lease traffic to other parts of the Centre, which will then necessarily increase traffic. I'm not going to go into the other sub-projects of the Bergen programme, but I'm going to signal that the Center Party will enter the Bergen programme as a package, as presented. So I guess we'll get a chance to get closer to the details of the individual projects in the Bergen programme later. So far, I will go under the advantages of parallelity in the development and completion of the collective project and road project. This will be decisive to achieve the defined goals for the Bergen application. The Bergen programme shall be financed by government funds, county funds and municipal funds in addition to tolls. The centre party will support the toll scheme outlined in the matter we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e700	Today it has been the opening of Rv 580 Midttune-Hop, which is the end of the toll package in Bergen, which was established in 1986 and which was extended until the end of 2002. This last project at the environmental and road site shows that one has reached its target. The projects that were submitted have now been completed. Both local, regional and state politicians have fulfilled the promise given. Through the current toll system, the mountains have been given a fairly main road network, as foreseen when the toll began in January 1986. But new times and new goals. The basis for the Bergen programme and the toll collection The Stortinget today will take a decision is the strong growth in road traffic in Bergen. It is stronger than many other places, and in recent years it has increased every year by between 3 and 6 pst. There has been a direct search for the ever-declining collective section in the Bergen area, but the agreement with the traffic companies – Hordaland, by the way, is the country that has taken the lead in using quality contracts as a mode of purchasing transport services – has closed this trend. I would like to mention that on the bus routes in Kokstad-Sandsli-Flesland the number of passengers has increased from 40000 to well over 100000. This shows that it is possible for public transport to take part in the growth of traffic. In Bergen a good job has been done with this so-called Bergen program. Here we have a clear plan of land that takes into account urban development, the environment and transport. The main elements of the programme are the urban railway, the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel as well as bottlenecks on the national and tribal road network. I would like to stress that for the community it is very important to put the environmental element in the setting. I am very pleased that the deal that was present locally, now appears to be identical to the deal that is in Stortinget. It's in the first row Labour Party, Right, Christian People's Party, Center Party, I also count with Left, even if they're not in the committee, with alternate support from SV, which gets this package in place. All these parties take responsibility for accepting the environmental and traffic challenges we have in the second largest city in the country. Only the Progress Party is standing outside. No toll use means no toll on these large projects. And it's tempting to ask if they can name anything about how many years we have to wait to see a decent name in Bergen if we don't have the tolls to pay. But the toll package that I am talking about introductoryly, today goes into history by opening the Midtun-Hop road. Then it's $1,080 million. kr. from road users, and the state has a GDP of 1,980 million. kr. The new toll project is on approx. 4.3 billion kroner, where tolls represent – i.e. what road users have to pay – approx. $2.3 billion. In the Bergen area, we are watered to pay tolls when large projects are to be resolved. Puddefjordsbrua, the Eidsvågstunnel and the large bridges that bind the city with the surrounding area are also financed by tolls. The challenge we face on the road around and in the big cities cannot be solved through the annual state roadways. Self-financing and toll collection must be provided if one is to do so. And that's will in Bergen. Urban is the most important collective action in the Bergen programme – whether there is no doubt. This cannot fully print the government fraction, but I am still happy that they are in this still. Equally important is the Ringway west. The city track and the Ringveg west go on each side of the city. Therefore, one cannot say that one project must be given priority over the other. The two projects must be built in parallel. Then it becomes strange to hear this debate tonight: SV will have the Skansen tunnel and the city track, the Progress Party will have Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel. The city track and the Ringveg west go on each side of the city, and they do not solve the major road problems that the city has. That's why it's very good that there's a plurality of the government fraction and the Workers' Party that can see the wholeness of the Bergen program.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e717	The Ministry of Transport has presented the Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment in order to improve the environment and the emergence of the second largest city in Norway. The programme has been developed by the municipality of Bergen in cooperation with the municipality of Hordaland and the state road network of Hordaland, and is financed in a split layer between the state, road users and local authorities. The background to the Bergen programme is the strong growth in road traffic Bergen has experienced, a growth that is stronger than in many other parts of the country. At the same time, the share of public transport has fallen. The objectives of the Bergen programme are to reduce the growth of car traffic, increase the proportion of public passengers, improve the environment and road safety and reduce transport costs for commercial traffic. The measures proposed to achieve the objectives are the strengthening of public transport by bus and by urban railways, road projects that relieve the current burden on behalf of the day, the environmental upgrading of centres charged for road traffic, and the establishment of continuous pedestrian and cyclist road networks. Three major individual projects in the Bergen programme are the urban railway, the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel. I am pleased that the majority supports the main objectives and measures described in the Bergen programme. Of course, I will follow up the majority's wish that the Government report on the progress of the Bergen programme in the light of the objectives. This will take place primarily in the annual budget proposals. I would like to stress that the commitment to public transport is central to the Bergen programme. The urban route between the centre and Flesland is the main individual project. In addition, promotion measures and priority shall be implemented on the road network for buses and taxis both in the outer city and in the centre. A number of such actions are already under way and will be among the first projects financed under the Bergen Programme in 2003 and 2004. It is very positive for the short-term competitiveness of public transport in Bergen. Work remains on the planning and clarification of the major road projects and the final choice of solutions for public transport, including investigations to follow up on documentation requirements for the alternative use of pesticides and tolls. Some have asked whether such investigations are really necessary. My answer is that it is they, not least for the sake of public transport and the urban railways. For example, the studies currently carried out include: evidenced that the urban railway has a better cost-benefit ratio than the bus options. Some of the work that remains now is to prove that an urban railway really contributes to increasing the total collective share, not just moving today's bus passengers onto the track. There is also a need to clarify the division of responsibilities between the county and the municipality for the operation of the urban railway and the bus offer. The real contribution of collective investment to increased collective shareholdings and the clarification of operational responsibilities for the urban route should be conditions that are worth waiting for even for the minority in this room. At least I'm concerned about it -- not to train the city track, but to make sure it's a success. On the other national road network, Ringveg west has the highest priority. The west ring road will lead to better traffic management, fewer accidents, the unloading of existing ones in the area and thus better housing and environmental conditions locally. The second major road project is the Skansen Tunnel, a two-field tunnel from the Bergen Centre to the area north of Bryggen. The main purpose of the Skansen tunnel is to relieve traffic through the centre, primarily the Square and the Protected Environment on the Bridge. Finally, I would like to stress that it is not such that every measure in the Bergen programme alone should lead to achieving all the objectives. It is the large and small measures in the Bergen programme together that can make Bergen well equipped to improve the urban environment and meet the expected traffic growth. For me, it is particularly important that the Bergen programme contributes to a trend break, where public transport takes a greater part of traffic growth, thus helping to reduce the problems of increased traffic on the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e743	I was kind of hung up in these beating hearts. Me and the Workers' Party believe that Bergen is a great city, which enhances accessibility and a better environment. That's what we mean both factually and we mean by warmth and commitment, and then others get the judge of the heart bank. I am, like the Council of State, happy for the majority locally, regionally and centrally in this matter, but I have three questions. The one thing is about the Left's programme, because here we have a Left-State Council which, as far as I am concerned, is positive both for road pricing and for car-restrictive measures. But the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are not involved in comments in this context, and I wonder if the Council of State will clarify its view. So we're wondering what state councils are thinking about a possible continuation of the city road towards Flesland – what kind of visions the state council has for a possible continuation. So for this to look at bus as an alternative. I think the Council of State has created even greater uncertainty as to whether it's the city track we're going to have. The Council of State still sees bus as a realistic alternative, and what are the arrangements for proposing such an alternative? And if she suggests such an alternative, who is she supposed to be supporting to establish such an alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e754	Let me start with the Left's policy in this area, on which the representative was here. The left is very concerned about the environment in transport and has pointed to road pricing as an instrument in this respect. In the government we are currently in, road pricing is not at the top of the list of actions you see to be implemented to contribute to the transfer of traffic from car to public transport. There is a wide range of responses — for example: investment in infrastructure or collective action, parking policy is another area, restrictions on motor vehicle use at the centre, pedestrian streets, etc. – which can be implemented to reduce car use in areas where you want to. This is the policy of both the Government and the Left. With regard to the possible continuation of the urban road, it is a question that we have to come back to when the project is clearly proposed for Stortinget and we have all the facts on the table that are needed to make such a decision. Compared to the bus options: No analysis of a solution is complete until we can compare with an alternative, and the urban route would be natural to compare with a bus option. We now have many good analyses of the city track, too many probably surprising good analyses, which show that the city track seems to be coming out very well. I'm sure there's a part that's surprised by that -- some positive, and some maybe not so positive. We're going to work on this, because the urban alternative looks very good, but we also have to take the other options to create a good picture of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e763	I am of those who are wondering about this very last, and I am glad that the Council of State expresses a somewhat more nuanced view of the city track than those who now unreservedly join enthusiastic tribute speeches to an urban runway solution. It is tempting on the basis of proven interim objective No. 3 in the programme — a major part of traffic growth is to be shifted to public transport — yet to ask the Council of State what makes it think that a collective solution for some citizens of a part of the city can contribute well to achieving this goal, rather than choosing a solution that covers the whole city. It may also be that the little skepticism that we now heard in the article also refers to what the Directorate of Roads has said: ‘Although an optimised bus option seems uninteresting for the municipality of Bergen, the Directorate of Road considers that it is necessary to investigate this in order for the Stortinget to have a sound decision-making basis.’ The reason why someone is surprised is that this case starts in Bergen City Council. At that time, the first investigations were clear in favor of a bus-based system, which was thus the cheapest and best social. So I'm raising a quick question number. 2 – it goes on funding. This is a toll program. Is it the case that both the Council of State and the Government are almost unreservedly serving enough bills to the drivers, and back to Norway's second largest city, which has been hard tried for 15 years? They were early on getting an extra driving tax, and they are now serving a solid driving tax, probably both in the first ten and the subsequent ten years. Is this something that the Government makes unreserved, to serve road development bills to road users and residents?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e776	Let's be clear that I see perfectly clear distributions in many places, including in the case of Bergen, with an urban runway solution. Now Bergen is so located geographically that there are a lot of mountains that we can't move on, no matter how much we want to – there's probably someone who doesn't want it either. We have to deal with that. That means that we have an area challenge as well as transport and environmental challenges. It's a challenge for Bergen City, and it's a challenge for us. That's what we have to deal with. That's why the city track is interesting, and I don't want to give up the city track at all. There should be good arguments that there is something else that is better. But I can show you what we talked about here in the previous case, which went on the Ringerix track, where it came to the conclusion that maybe we didn't have a good enough decision-making basis, that maybe there were assessments that weren't on the table. Here it's important to have all the good data and all the information on the table. So for funding, if we're going to send the bill to the drivers unreservedly. Here is a possibility through this package of using only tolls and pesticides, so-called alternative use of pesticides, to a collective solution, given that there are some solutions also for those who drive cars. Because it might do it here, as it does it some other place where we're using this solution. If it is such that it both provides a better solution for those who are going to travel in general, for the inhabitants of the city and for the drivers on the road – because fewer cars are going to be there – then there is a good solution for those who drive cars as well. So it's perfectly legitimate to give them a bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e783	The Bergen programme describes a kind of musical agreement in the order of the projects included here. It is almost such that one should have conducted and said one, two, three, then the construction start on the city track and the Ringveg west should be completely parallel. And I expect the Council of State on the same day to put the spade in the ground for both projects, to underline this musical simultaneity. My concern is that this is going to be a little bit of a fake music. What will happen to the objectives of the Bergen programme to reduce traffic growth, to reduce air pollution and to increase collective shares, if it is so that it intersects with the route, and that the Ringveg west is up to several years before we have put in place an urban runway? I would like to know if the Transport Council has assessed the order of business decisions, so that we could be sure that there was no large amount of road investment that improved the capacity on the road before the collective alternative was in place. I regret that the government fraction here in Stortinget could not stand behind such a provision on order, but for Bergen and for the environment, and not least to improve air and to improve public transport, it would have been a more musical approach than the slightly poetic simultaneousity that lies in the program as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e795	The Bergen programme sets a number of objectives. I think it sets a good framework for the program itself, and it can also be a guide to the job to be done when it is the Bergen programme. So when we say that we want to get back to the Storting in the annual budget proposals and go through the status with respect to the targets, it might be a useful way to see if we're up-to-date on achieving the targets, whether we've started in the right order, and whether we're moving on in the right order. By having such a constructive follow-up with respect to the objectives, and not least a continuous status assessment, we have the opportunity to see if we are on the right track and have the right priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e803	Earlier in the debate there has been a note from the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party where we point out that we believe the construction of the urban railway in Bergen qualifies for the use of the system of alternative use of rickshaws and tolls. The government party is not included in this comment. But in St.prp. No 76 for 2001-2002 there is a section on just alternative use of national road vehicles and tolls, and it is said that ordinary national road and tolls can be used for public transport measures when it can be demonstrated that this would provide a better transport option than if the permits were used for road development, i.e. alternative use. And then it says at the end of the section: ‘This documentation is to be submitted to the ministry.’ My question to the Council of State will then be: Is it so to understand that the ministry of mine – like the three parties that are behind the remark I referred to – makes that this is the basis for using tolls and rickshaws as an alternative? The Council of State was so much involved in the answer to a previous reply, but I challenge the Council of State to step up its views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e810	With regard to the alternative use of pesticides, we have the opportunity when it can be demonstrated that this would provide a better transport offer than if the allocation were used for road development. That means that if there is evidence that there is such a gain on this, there is a possibility of that. We now have good analysis of the city track, but we still lack some of the documentation that we have to have on the table to say that it is a completely correct way of using funds. But the opportunity lies there, and the opportunity is good. We have experience that suggests that there is a gain here – which I used to be in – both for drivers, for residents and for collective travellers. And we might be able to implement projects of a slightly different magnitude and a slightly different form if we have this possibility. We have the possibility. We just have to have evidence that the gain is there, and maybe a will from Bergen to make sure to facilitate that we can also get a transition of travelers from car to public and urban. If we are to achieve this, we shall succeed in increasing the collective share and taking the growth of traffic on the collective side, an effort from the municipality, from the county council and from us is required. At this point, there are probably some questions left in relation to the arrangement that the municipality has in order for us to achieve that transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e819	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e822	The Bergen programme is a major effort on public transport and road development in and around Bergen city. The balanced development of roads and public transport is important in order to achieve a comprehensive solution, and this can be seen in the context of other spatial planning in the areas concerned. Good infrastructure is important both for the environment and for good accessibility. Large-scale use of public transport in and around major cities is important for the Cooperative Government. We have shown that in the collective communication and last of all in the context of the 2003 state budget. It is in the big cities that we have major problems with the formation of cows and again major environmental problems, both in terms of dust and noise. For several days this month, the air in Bergen has been so polluted that it was recommended to keep children and young people with asthma problems inside. Even kindergartens chose to keep the kids in. This says a little bit about the challenges we're facing. That is why I am very pleased that we have this matter under consideration today. What we've seen over time in Bergen is that the growth in car traffic has been higher than in the rest of the country. At the same time, the collective share has fallen. The challenge for Bergen is to reverse the negative trend, i.e. slowing down traffic growth, reducing environmental pressures and increasing collective participation. What we are going to decide today is whether the bomb company will be able to charge tolls for the Bergen programme, and we will look into the rules that will apply to this. The different elements of the programme we will come back to in future treatments. I just want to mention a few of the elements in the program. An important part is the commitment to public transport, where the urban railway seems to be an important and timely single project. Another item is Ring Road West. The Sandsli and Kokstad areas have been expanded over the last 20 years with thousands of new jobs and new dwellings. This has led to a large increase in the transport needs of the area and the result is an overloadd road system and long queues in the rush hour. Weighing west will improve traffic resolution and reduce the number of accidents. The Bergen programme is well anchored in the political system, both locally in Bergen and in Hordaland county. I look forward to implementing the Bergen programme, because this will benefit everyone – both those who choose collective solutions, drivers, the transport industry, soft road users and finally, but not least, the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e843	Last week, the air pollution in Bergensdalen was so strong that from the top of Ulriken it was only possible to scan the city through the mist of dust and exhaust. The combination of cold weather and low wind left a lid of pollution over the center and the urban areas lying between the city mountains. People with respiratory problems, not least many children, were recommended to stay indoors. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations recommended that their members use filter masks if they had to go outdoors. That's what we know from metropolises with millions of cars and heavy industry. SFT calculations show that 140 mountainers die prematurely each year as a result of air pollution. This situation is far from political in nature. Emissions and suspended particulates from motor traffic form an important part of air pollution. Over several decades with one-sided efforts to facilitate car traffic, Bergen has developed a one-sided and backward transport system, with a strong increase in car traffic and a correspondingly strong deterioration in the collective system. The mountain program breaks partly with this pattern, but still doesn't go far enough in the right direction. When the majority of the Stortinget today supports the idea of building an urban railway in Bergen, it is a joyous day. It's 30 years' battle for the track, which in a few years can be crowned with victory. A path will be a modern solution that is superior both to urban planning, communication and the environment. For 20 years, Bergen has been trying to build itself out of the problems of the entryways. New motorways have been the answer every time problems with the queue have occurred. We can today state that this has been the wrong prescription. Track and public transport as alternatives provide us with flexible and sustainable alternatives. Efforts on even more and more roads continue the coercive development towards more and more car traffic. Therefore, the construction of the Ringveg west is a serious error. It represents an obsolete and poor way to solve the problems. Even more serious it becomes when we know that there has not been a proper assessment of the collective options. Ring road west will necessarily have to affect many travel habits in the opposite direction to what is the Bergen programme's declared target of less traffic growth. It is disappointing, I think, that SV has not received support for their proposal to develop a collective alternative to getting the city track priority ahead of Ringveg west in time. It should not have been mentioned in a specific form. The long-term objective must be to achieve a more comprehensive network in Bergen. In this context, it should be possible to create a majority in order to underline the desirability of speeding up the path to Flesland. I am amazed and disappointed that the Christian People's Party, which held a very high collective profile in the election campaign in Hordaland last, does not see itself able to support the comment from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre on this. An important objective for the development of Bergen must be to achieve urban planning that mitigates transport needs. In this context, the construction of the Skansen tunnel is not a good solution. It's a project to relieve Bridge and Square of Traffic, which is important and proper to do, but the tunnel is not a tool that solves the problems of the center as a whole, because it locks traffic to other parts of the center, parts of the center where there are many people living. Organising more people to live in the centre will, of course, be an important part of a policy to reduce transport needs. Providing the city center residents with more cars in the streets hardly contributes to this. It is very good that the programme prioritises the construction of walking and cycling networks. A comprehensive walking and cycling network in Bergen has been a goal for many of us for a long time. It is especially important in a city that is characterized by many hills, narrow streets and large traffic. We who have cycled a part in Bergen know that life often happens as an effort, and that one would like to be driven by strong idealism or have very poor advice about cycling to work every day. The mountain range may lead to different long-term outcomes. This could be the start of a new trend in Bergen, with a focus on environmentally friendly and efficient urban development. But there can also be a legitimisation of an ongoing old-fashioned policy that makes the central parts of Bergen more and more of a crossroads. There are two relationships that will determine what will be the outcome of the process that is now underway. The first is how many other environmentally harmful projects the City Council adopts in the meantime. We know that Ulrikstunnel is still on the agenda. We know that many people are eager to get more parking spaces in the center. The second is how the Bergen programme is implemented both locally and by the Government. There is reason to hope that the leadership that is being put here will ensure that we get a positive development, for the benefit of the mountains and for the benefit of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e862	Today we have been traveling. We have traveled from Oslo and been to the Ring Kingdom and the Honeymoon. That's where we tried a few trajectory choices. It went bad. Now we've moved on to Bergen. The Christmas card is from Henefoss – not with the good news. But now we have come to Bergen, and we hope that we will have more pleasant messages for the mountains, not only for Christmas, but also for what is to come later. The Bergen programme is, as many have said before, a programme with three main elements. It's track, it's ring road, and it's a tunnel, the Skansen tunnel. These three elements are no coincidence. They're not just plucked down. But there are three elements that are necessary to achieve the widest possible majority in order to create something. That means that this compromise requires both the courage and the willingness of those who are going to make a decision, namely that we have to bring something with us to achieve something good. We want a city track, but we have to take a road. We want a subway, but we also have to bring a tunnel. We can't make this a place where you can come in and pick out what's best for you at the moment – you have to see it in context. It's the history of urban development. It's the story of how we've been investing in collective solutions in the big cities. It requires coordination of several different actions. Then it becomes a little special for me to hear that SV now enjoys the majority that is created. There is a majority who are willing to take responsibility for three parts, but SV is trying to limit it all to just the urban runway. To SV I would therefore say: if they really want to fight for the city track, they have to join in fighting for the other, because it's a connection. There's no fixed unit standing there anyway. That unit only lasts as long as we dare to take responsibility for all three parts at the same time. The representative Sørensen wanted to see the metaphor in a piece of music. Then I can tell you the following: one piece of music is orchestrated through several instruments – not all of the instruments start at the same time, and not all of the instruments end at the same time. But the sum of them, where they hit the whole piece of music, creates the whole thing. That's the whole thing, the piece of music, the musicality that we want to achieve also in relation to the Bergen program. In its relationship with Bergen and Bergen's problems and the Bergen programme, the Progress Party has chosen a reasonable original starting point, perhaps because they don't care, perhaps because Bergen is really completely uninteresting in meeting the solutions that are. Then, of course, my comments on what they have said become pointless. But now I'm choosing to assume that they think that's what they're saying. Let me say the following: I am not against the bus! But that's not the theme either. The theme is: what does it take to solve the major collective problems in Bergen? Let's get rid of them by bus? Unfortunately, you might say. Anyway, it's a fact that they can't be solved alone by bus. That's why we're discussing the city track. Can Oslo solve its collective problems by shutting down the T-Bahn? No, they're not going to be able to solve it that way. That's why we're discussing it. Then, of course, the Progress Party can roll and say that they don't know what the city track is. It's not embarrassing for this hall. It's embarrassing for those who say they don't know what it is. Here the Progress Party, if they want to be taken seriously, must say something that is serious. They have to say that they care, or don't care, about the problem in Bergen. If they care about the problem in Bergen, we can't create a different city than what Bergen is. Then they have to take Bergen seriously, take the reality of Bergen seriously. And then the Progress Party is probably left with: Jesus, it's not possible with just a bus anyway. We've got to have a subway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e875	I am very pleased that today's proposals on toll financing for the Bergen programme, and now before Christmas, are adopted by the Stortinget, and adopted with virtually the same content as a broad political majority locally wanted. The mountains have some major traffic challenges, such as cooling, air pollution and poor collective services. The city has an acute and high need to increase the capacity of the entryways to the centre, and in particular in the south of the city and between Laksevåg and Fana. Today's decision on the Bergen programme means a long step further than these challenges. The programme means a historical commitment to public transport. The mountain has a very low collective share, currently at just 12 p.m., and the proportion is falling. Poor collective provision results in fewer people using public transport, which in turn leads to even worse profitability and supply. This is a bad circle, which Bergen has to get out of. The Ringway west becomes a long-distance solution for the south and the Sandsli-Kokstad area. The expansion of industrial activities and housing in the Sandsli-Kokstad area over the last 20 years has been unfortunate by not simultaneously building up the necessary infrastructure. This has created major queue problems. The right has pointed this out for years. It is good that we now see the contours of a solution, even though I think it has gone a little too long. The Skansen tunnel shall relieve traffic through the centre and over Square and Bridge. Those who have been to Bergen know that there is a heavy traffic load in the middle of the city. A tunnel will have major effects on the entire urban environment, not least for Bryggen, which is unique and protective, and which has great wear and tear due to vibrations from light and not least heavy traffic that overtakes every single day. I hope that the Skansen tunnel, which is planned to start late in the program, can be started as soon as possible in view of the situation on the Bridge. The collective effort in the Bergen program is perhaps the most exciting element. The need for investment is unmistakable, but the discussion has gone on and on and on with regard to the choice of collective solutions. The aim is that the collective offer in Bergen should have a trend break, from a steady downward share of the collective share to an increase in public transport. The scope of investment, the expected collective effect and the operating economy of an urban runway require further clarifications, although preliminary analyses, fortunately, suggest that this option has a better cost-benefit ratio than the so-called bus option. However, I think it is very sensible that the government parties stress in their comments that a thorough work is being done on quality assurance and that a collective solution based on busses is being examined in parallel. The most important thing, after all, is to get the most collective offer again for the funds put at the disposal. For the urban railway, important clarifications related to financing and operational responsibilities remain. Bergen currently has very little resources to subsidise the collective offer, and the municipality is in a difficult financial situation. Therefore, clarifying the operating economy of an urban runway and the added food bus system is a fundamentally important issue that we need to know more about before the Stortinget takes a final position on the choice of collective solutions. I think that both the county and the state must look into the financing and operation of the public transport in Bergen in order for this to be carried out economically. As far as progress is concerned, it is positive to point to the benefits of parallelity in the main investments, in order to keep the progress plan. At the same time, the Bergen programme is being adopted today, and it is important that implementation is not delayed in the future. Of course, it is essential to achieve rational progress and rapid completion of the projects in the package. The decision we are about to take today is primarily a decision on toll financing. Toll collection is unfortunately a virtue of necessity to provide Bergen with a usable infrastructure. We like it or not, but I don't think anyone, nor those who are voting against the Bergen programme today, wants the option, namely ever-increasing environmental and accessibility problems in Bergen. With regard to the note from the new red-green alliance on the left, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, on car-restrictive measures in Bergen, this is in practice about road pricing. The signal has been given before from that team, and this theme I think the mountain people should take a stand on in the election campaign for next year. For the Right, road pricing in Bergen is quite out of date. I am very pleased that a broad majority supports this historically important decision for the people and the environment in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e903	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e907	Tolls in Bergen I know a lot about. The traffickers in Bergen, business and private have paid extra driving taxes from 1986. The solemn promise that was given at the time of the lot Right, which introduced driving taxes in Bergen, was: never more, and not tolls over 5 kroner. Now the tolls have for the longest time been 10 kroner, and the Bergen program that Right supports opens up additional driving taxes for 10 years, and perhaps for another 10 years after that again. The mountain program is a toll program. It is time for the state to do its job – build and pay a decent road network in Norway’s second largest city. It is politically impenetrable to adopt this toll programme, where a majority has chosen to add 50 pst. the financing of the population wallets. The mountain program is also an urban railway program. The collective effort is based on a glare of an urban railway, where the urban railway’s eager trailers have done their utmost to produce the urban track for parts of the city – without credibility in investment calculations and in operational calculations – as better than buses for the whole city. The chances of an urban runway becoming expensive and poor are alarming. When the Gardermoban is not able to run financially, we have little faith that a hummingbird between the Bergen Centre and a local center on Nesttun south of Bergen will be able to do it. Toll payers have reason to fear that they will subsequently have to pay both for construction and for operation, and users have reason to fear restrictions on the use of a car in order to ‘create’ customers to the urban railway. For those who have seen the analyses and calculations for the urban route, it is quick to reveal that users are mainly collective users already. Thus, a switch from bus users to rail users is still far from the programme’s objective of increasing the overall share of public travellers. The choice of urban railways rather than the bus-based collective system therefore prioritises parts of the population in the Bergen area. That is probably one of the reasons why the views of the mountains on the city stage are clearly divided, and far more divided than the political picture gives the impression. The Bergen programme provides for extensive toll collection and a course of dubious quality. Both parts should be rejected, and the Progress Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e920	Now there's a lot of mountain people in a row and row here. Well, that might be a little bit interesting too. I see this Bergen program as an overall package that we have to be able to compare with, for example. Oslopackak 1 and 2. The aim is to reduce the growth of car traffic, increase the proportion of public travellers, improve the environment and road safety and reduce costs for business. The mountain program must be seen as a package. It has been a local policy premise that the Bergen programme must be seen as a package and that individual projects cannot be removed without changing the basis of local policy consensus. On 12 June 2002, Hordaland County repeated the decision to pay up to 50 pst. of the frame of Hordaland to other national roads shall go to Bergen. Local tolls and municipal and county estates account for 60 pst. of the financing, while 40 pst. are ordinary State appropriations. The Bergen programme is justified by the strong traffic growth experienced by Bergen. Traffic growth is stronger in Bergen than in many other places. And as has been said earlier in the debate: Traffic growth in the entry years has been between 3 and 6 pst in recent years. Population growth in Bergen will largely take place south of the centre, where the main road construction is not completed, and where we actually have annual traffic ranging from 7 000 to 23 000 passages per day. In these areas of Bergen, where the transport system is least developed, traffic growth by 2015 will be highest. This makes it necessary to extend the transport system south of Bergen. Part of this, of course, is Ringway West, which is absolutely necessary. One must also develop competitive public transport in relation to cars. In addition to reducing environmental disadvantages, noise and accessibility problems, this will put less pressure on road development. Both the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland are in favour of the Bergen programme, and I am pleased that most of those who have spoken in the debate today have done the same. But I'm actually feeling some anxiety about someone saying that they'll come back and watch these programs the next time the Storting gets them treated, because I perceive that this must be seen as a package, and if this package doesn't come, we'll see about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e935	There's room for more mountainers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e938	I confess to both being a mountainer and an object man. In the treatment of the Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment – does it not sound beautiful: transport, urban development and the environment? – Bergen's city council and Hordaland's clear-cut multi-tales have gone in to realize the three main projects, the city track, the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel. When it comes to paying 2.3 billion kroner in tolls, mountain passengers expect these three main projects to be realised, and there will be a real commitment to an attractive public transport service in the city. It is almost unlikely that SV will go in to allow toll collection, but opposes the Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment that a comprehensive package will be realised. It is quite incomprehensible that SV uses environmental arguments to oppose the construction of buildings, among others. Skansen Tunnel. I can inform you that the Skansen Tunnel is an important transport project and, in addition, an important cultural action. The buildings on the Bryggen in Bergen are running day by day during the excessive traffic along the house rails. The politicians in Bergen have now defined which entrances and exits for the Skansen tunnel should be, and in themselves it is well done to reach a local settlement and the basis for the regulatory work has been laid. The bridge in Bergen is an irreplaceable, unique cultural tax both nationally and internationally, and I hope that the representatives from SV can give a clear answer to the question of how they can really dare to oppose the construction of the Skansen tunnel, which will protect the cultural heritage of Bryggen and also make both Bryggen and Square free of car. By realizing the Skansen Tunnel, we can agree to give the Bergen Centre back to the people and pedestrians and steer the cars and traffic into the mountains and under the street floor. In the Christian People's Party, we are proud to be able to fight for the Skansen Tunnel to be built. Anyhow, this project should be taken care of. The important upgrading work that has been done in Bergen in recent years cannot be completed as long as car traffic has a too strong and shaky grip on the center of our city. I am pleased that a majority at Stortinget respects local and regional priorities and facilitates the development of urban railways and is likely to be devoted to public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e956	It goes towards the end of the debate on the most important issue of transport for Bergen since the case of decent behalf in the mid-1980s. That road package and its financing were a success. That's why this is a big day for Bergen and not least for the surrounding country with its 300,000 inhabitants. I want to see the Bergen program in a hordeland perspective, like a sound-hord landing that needs to come to a city with a modern character. The motorways from the south today seem to reject us who are coming to our regional capital. Yes, you can easily feel committed to the 1960s road standard, but with a multiple of traffic. I do not conceal that there are measures on the road network with the Ringveg west, the lower entryway, the airport road and the Skansen tunnel that are closest to my heart. Collective transport is, of course, also important, but accessibility to the road network is very important for out-of-town hordes. Hordaland is the country's largest export country with Bergen as a natural hub and port of transit. For the competitiveness of business, it is essential that we start these road projects as soon as possible. Bergensers and hordeldings have had to endure self-financing through tolls to get something done for many, many years. Now they're lifting up in flocks again for tasks that the state should strictly care about. Therefore, it is gratifying that everyone who has worked for such an integrated package as the Bergen programme is, today is recognised for their work by the Stortinget saying yes to the funding scheme for the Bergen programme and signaling the willingness to prioritise the individual projects I have mentioned, in turn, in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e965	There's something about the Right People who say that public transport is of course also important, which means that I just can't believe them completely. But over to the matter. Southern part of Bergen – that’s what’s shown at the bottom of the map on page 7 of the proposition – has had the lowest collective share in the city, far below the Arna district, which has had up to 50 pst. collective share because they've had their own urban track, and because they've had trains. Uprising politicians will then ask themselves the question: How can we manage to increase the collective share in the south of the city? The answer given by the majority in this room and other halls has come up with, among other things. Ring road west and a city track that will be finished later. I believe the Ringveg west is a major scandal and because of the submitted position in Bergen, I agree with the Right instead of the SV about the Bergen program. And why did they do that? Well, like Ranveig Frøiland, if you're concerned with reducing public transport, you have to bet on alternatives to roads. Then you have to start building the city track, and then several roads come later. The growth in the southern part of Bergen comes in the Kokstad-Sandsli area. Then it's crazy that the first stage of the urban railway is not planned right up to this area and to Flesland right away. Besides, the city track is going to be finished after Ringveg west, which is going to create new travel habits for people. All we know about people's travel habits is that it's hard to get people from car to public transport when they first start driving a car. But the worst thing in my opinion is that the Ringveg west is not consistent with the fact that there should be an urban runway. It is not even certain that Ringveg West would be a socially profitable project if we had got the city track in place first. Then there is good reason to ask the question: why will the majority spend time investigating the use of public highways instead of spending time assessing a real collective alternative to the Ringveg west? The answer is simple. If the council had considered the collective alternative of the city track as an alternative to the Ringveg west, it's my tip that Ringveg west would never have been built. But enough about it. Now we're going to go for this toll financing to get the city track set up. Well, I'm in charge of Oslo, but I'm in charge of Firen. And I promise the mountain people that if the Minister of Transport comes back to Stortinget with a mountain program without a city track, I'll throw her into the Oslo Earth myself. Because since 1993, the same urban railway slogan has been used in each campaign: we want the city track now! I started to wear it in 1993. And the same slogan used Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken during the campaign last. Now it looks like it could be: we want the city track now! I'll be glad to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e976	I'm sure the Council of State didn't take that threat very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e979	The matters we are now dealing with are a very important matter for Bergen. It's about taking the grips that are needed to solve Bergen's long-term communication problems. In earlier times one thought that a solution to the traffic challenges in Bergen was building more and wider roads. And these were built. The collective argument was that buses also need roads to get there. It has been a huge traffic development in Bergen. And when all directions are brought in towards the Bergen Centre, it goes without saying that it's going to be cork and chaos, even for the buses. A few steps have been taken to manage transit traffic outside the centre, and these projects have cost and will cost a lot. Good land-use planning and long-termity are now needed to meet tomorrow’s challenges, and besides a proper boost to bet on public transport and measures to reduce car use. There is often a debate in Bergen about who is the city track's'mother'. The left of Bergen and the left of Stortinget have been fighting to get this project out. The first permits for planning are a left-wing transport minister. We've fought for the city track because we think there's no room in the Bergen Centre for a collective system built on bus transport. And different reports have shown that there's only one bet on the city track that's a real alternative. The question arises as to whether one will increase the number of public travellers when the city road is in place. It can be a few if you have a housing system with a bus to the city track. And there may be a few if one sets of measures to reduce the use of cars to achieve the goal of the Bergen programme. Alternative use of national means is discussed, and there is a call from the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Labour Party directed towards the Christian People's Party and the Left at this point. In the left, we believe that alternative use of national pesticides can be applied to collective promotion measures. But then the city council in Bergen and Hordaland county must also show that they give priority to measures that promote public transport. There may be restrictions on parking, there may be road pricing in the long term, but Bergen City Council and Hordaland County Council must make a choice. When the Government and the Minister of Transport have provided incentives to engage in collective action, I really hope that Bergen and Hordaland counties will take that message and bet on it. Actually, I don't think they've shown it before. What I've said is that they've given priority to road construction rather than collective action. I'm not going to stand here and take credit for the "maternity" when it comes to the city track, there are several who have the honor of it. I also see that when it's about the city track, there's a plurality of this in Bergen, and it's important to listen to that plurality with regard to how we're going to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e996	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1406]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1012	Although there is a unanimous opinion in this case, I would like briefly to explain the Committee's views on this matter. The Proposition of the Government is divided into two parts, and the Committee has chosen to deal with the two parts separately. Part I deals with Norway's participation in the 13th capital restocking of the World Bank's development fund for the poorest countries, the International Development Fund, IDA. In Part II, the Government has made the announced general statement on the role of the World Bank and Norway in its governing bodies and activities. In the light of the negotiations on the 13th capital restocking, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has expressed the wish that the capital restocking be adopted in the current year, a wish a unanimous committee has chosen to comply. With regard to capital restocking, Norway has agreed through the negotiations to increase its share thereof. Norway’s share is now 1.52 p.m., which for the entire three-year period amounts to well over 1.7 billion kroner. The background is that the IDA lending policy has developed rapidly over the last ten years and is now largely in line with Norwegian development policy. Norway has also accepted that the annual indebtedness certificates constituting the Norwegian IDA 13 contribution may be collected immediately after the issue of the International Development Fund. The added value it represents is calculated to approximately 243 million. This will be an important exceptional contribution to meeting the consequences for the poorest countries of the international economic downturn after 11 September 2001. However, there was little time in the harvest session for a sufficiently thorough treatment of the Proposition Part II, which contains a comprehensive review of the World Bank's policies and activities. The Committee will therefore come back with a separate opinion on Part II, which will be dealt with as its own case early in the spring of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1025	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1407]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1041	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1407]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1054	Then the Stortinge will go to voting, and with the goodwill of the assembly this will go well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1061	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4-6, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the Revised Budget for 2003 to strengthen its supervisory and supervisory functions and to balance them with increased reimbursement of supervisory expenditure.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1088	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4, 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to open up drilling in already granted licences as soon as the ongoing impact assessment for the Lofoten-Barents Sea has been carried out and if it does not identify significant and new problem areas. It is assumed that this will be carried out by autumn 2003 at the latest.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample of the oil industry, which is represented, to review the current tax regime in order to improve it as well as to develop tax incentives for niche and tail production.’ Proposal No. 6th sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refrain from introducing petroleum-free zones in the North.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1115	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Upper limit of total investments per year project represents 5 billion. krones. Projects over this cost framework shall be dealt with by Stortinget.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to present as soon as possible a case that strengthens coastal and oil protection in the north.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Storting with an assessment of the feasibility of introducing ethical guidelines for companies with a high State ownership that are engaged in extensive international activity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1156	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an environmental monitoring centre near the Snow White Field in order to monitor the activity of Snow White and maritime traffic in the area in order to improve environmental safety.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1178	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1185	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Eng, on behalf of Mrs Arbeiderparteispælet nr. 4, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 5, from Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the planning and pre-projecting of the Ringeriksbanen and to return to the Stortinget with appropriate proposals, and at the latest in the context of the national transport plan 2006-2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1214	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The work on a new line between Sandvika and Hønefoss ends.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1229	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy agrees that the further planning of the Bergensbanen abbreviation – Ringeriksbanen – is based on the corridor over Busund [[Kroksund]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for appropriations towards the end of the 2002-2011 programming period, as provided for by the Finnish Labour Party. [[2000-2001]] S. No 119 on the national transport plan 2002-2011.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess a combined car/railway bridge over Kroksund to improve the environment in Steinsfjorden.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1260	The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Advance Party wish to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1275	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a real collective alternative to the Ringveg west is developed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1299	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The mountain programme for transport, urban development and the environment is implemented in accordance with St.prp. No 76 [[2001-2002]] Expenditure IncomesSt.prp. 76FrP St.prp. 76FrpMeasurements other national road networks 1 2151 215 State resources other national roads 1 4152 425Measurement of roads 370370 Tribal roads 370370Collective measures 1 270 Tolls 2 280G/S, TS, environment, planning 820820 Municipal resources 150150Measures in Bergen centre 640640 Municipal resources 100100Total 4 3153 045 Total 4 3153 045Amounts in million. crowns’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1441	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-17-2.ana.ud1304e1488	There is no record.
