ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e71	The President would like to welcome everyone back to active work after Easter. We now have a relatively long, continuous session until we have to finish before the summer break. There are a number of issues that lie in the Storting for treatment, so there are going to be many and long meetings in the future. But with good cooperation, I think it's going to be all right. The representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Siri Hall Arnøy, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Karin Andersen, Knut Storberget, Rune J. Krylaaen, Thore A. Nistad, Lars Rise, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Olaf Gédrem, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Gunhild The eye and Christopher Steinsaker, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 9 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Kenneth Svendsen from 9 April until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Ruth Olug Rist, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Kenneth Svendsen, for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representatives of the Nordland County, Tomas Norvoll and Karstein Hansen, are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tomas Norvoll and Karstein Hansen are present and will sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e153	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e158	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e163	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e186	This is a very important day in Stockholm for SV, and not least for me seam as an active district politician. Why? Well, we believe and have ambitions that this should be the beginning of the formulation of a policy to stop the relocation of many rural communities in Norway. We in SV are very pleased that the Government prioritises this by participating in this debate by the Prime Minister – the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs – in fact also in the Chamber. We appreciate that. This is a very serious topic. I'm not going to add up to an acute polemic, but I want to have a serious dialogue with both the government parties and others about how we're going to meet the many calls from District Norway with a policy that can work in the years to come. I've been living in Oslo for six months. What has surprised me the most after I came here in the house and have moved in the spheres around here is that ‘district policy’ is a minus word. I have always believed that ‘district policy’ was a positive word. It's almost perceived as charity. But what is district policy? Indeed, district policy is Norway's policy for areas of widespread settlement, as if we have a urban policy for densely populated areas. But it is clear that a very different and different policy is required because the challenges are so different in the city and in the districts. We in SV believe it is right to spend money and resources on public transport in cities, on the construction of opera in the capital, on urban renewal in the capital, etc. But it is also right to spend money on jobs, maintaining the local store and racial protection in District Norway. For me personally, the nearby store on the extreme naked island is as important as the opera in Bjørvika. So what's the situation in District Norway today? Well, a number of our small communities can't stand to experience the previous 20 years again. If the previous 20 years come back, they will be gone as viable societies. We'll have a weathering and desert spreading that makes them not viable. There will be some scattered settlements, but not viable communities that have the services you have to expect. The Norwegian population cannot passively sit down and watch that we put the rural communities dead because we are unable to put in sufficient policy instruments to enable them to live. We can't sit and watch Norway slip slowly towards Oslofjorden. I have taken 1997 as a random year to look at the relocation from e.g. North Norway. Then it moved a net of 6,000 people from North Norway, i.e. five displacement drawers per unit; day(s) It might not sound that much, but it's Bodø town that in six to seven years is moving out of North Norway, or the whole Lofoten in five years. The Norwegian potion must have a perspective that goes further than from south to south. We must dare to see 20 years ahead: what will happen in 20 years if we don't take any action now? North Norway is not in a special position. We have the same challenges, if not so much everywhere, in the inner eastern region, in the inner Trondelag and in parts of the Western and Southern countries. Over half of Norway’s municipalities have suffered a decline in the population in the last ten years. So what is the reason why we have this formidable centralization? It would take me half an hour to go into a deep analysis, but let me take one reason. I believe that the Storting has for many years given away the tools that a former one had for governing, something that is privatized, and something is separated into so-called enterprises. This has led us to get a bit for bit-thinking where the whole plot is gone. We in SV want to get back this whole blockage. We want back control of the tools, so that we can ‘snare’ a real district policy. Then we can't just sit with the thumb, we have to have back both the saga, the hammer and much more if we're going to get to it. I believe that politicians have too much abdidated in district policy in many areas. There will be too much distance between the Storting and those who live in the districts. We don't speak the same language anymore. That's why I think we need to move more power out to the different areas of the country that know what this is all about, and that feel it every day. I have said this in Stortinget before: the wit is evenly distributed in this country. There's as much sense in More and Romesdal and in Finnmark as it is in the capital. That is why I think we should allow local knowledge to decide more on this matter. So we're going to have to blow a little bit of life into the presidency bill from 1837. I sometimes get the question: Is it now necessary that people live in the districts? Is it really necessary for people to live out there? The question is asked in a way that is believed that we who live there are some sea lodgers. But that's not what this is about. People who live in District-Norway live there because they like to live in District-Norway and they think it's great to live there, that's where you belong. For the nation of Norway, districts are very, very valuable. And here too, it'll be too short to come up with all the reasons why District Norway is valuable, but let me give you a few examples. Much of Norway’s wealth is built up because of our natural resources. They are located in the districts, and it is very important that they are managed in an environmentally good way so that our descendants too can benefit from our amazing natural resources. We must take care of the fish, the agriculture, the forest, the power, etc. But it is required that there are viable societies out there, so that people can live there and take care of it. We can't get any cities where people live in a way to harvest the natural resources. Then it will never happen in a good way. In addition, there are enormous values in many communities today, including: in the infrastructure built up with schools, hospitals, roads, etc. The social costs of moving complete communities to cities are enormous, especially when we know what problems it also causes for cities. I imagine the problems and challenges of moving 100,000 new inhabitants to the capital in relation to public transport, in relation to housing, schools, the land border, etc. It's a huge problem you're putting on the cities with a policy like that. What has to happen now? We in SV want to turn all the stones in district policy. We want an open-minded review of what we've been doing. It also applies to us who live in District Norway. We have to go critically into what we're doing to figure out if we've done things the right way. It's not just about yelling at the state. We have to take the main responsibility seams, but we're dependent on a big deal and a government playing with the districts. We want a Commission to review the overallity of today's policies and promote new non-traditional proposals on how to maintain today's housing structure. I believe that such a Commission should be able to work for two to three years, and that from 2005, for example. has a new district policy to replace the former district policy, in which we have new instruments, a new idea of how to maintain the housing pattern. But that doesn't mean we can sit back and relax for two and a half to three years. We must, pending a completely new district policy, use the means we have today and intensify the work here. As an example, we believe that we need to get more of the SND funds out to the district municipalities. We must not have a weakened local economy. We have to get a service offer in the municipalities. This is unusually important, not least in the small district municipalities. We have to make sure that no more of the small primary schools are laid down. We know last year there were 44 primary schools. We need to increase the investment in agriculture, and for us, organic farming is particularly important. We believe that there is a significant potential in the districts, because this is a market that demands more goods of that type, and there is also a much greater labour intensity in that type of production. Finally, we hope that we will gradually have to have a fisheries policy where more of the fisheries are transferred to the coastal fleet, so that more fishermen are allowed to fish along our coast. I have had the pleasure of following the district policy debate in Stortinget from 1992. It doesn't mean that I've been here since 1992, but I've been following the sideline, and I've registered through changing governments that it's a desire to keep the main features of the housing pattern. These good intentions have not been followed up by the necessary measures. [[The President clubs]] There are many communities that are gone in 20 years, if the last 20 years are repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e214	As the representative Inge Ryan said, ‘district policy’ has unfortunately over time become a concept of a certain negative sound, at least here in the central strata. However, as politicians, we have a responsibility to contribute positively to the future and opportunities that exist throughout the country. The goal of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern has been central, and has had a broad upturn in Norwegian policy for many decades. The representative asks whether we have managed to achieve this goal, and whether the means we use are correct. These are important questions that require more profound answers than what I can find here and now. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs will present the Government's district and regional policy to the Stortinget in his presentation at the end of the month. Personally, I am pleased with the starting point of the inter-pellant, namely a dialogue and willingness to re-examine instruments and not primarily pursue polemics and just be concerned with appropriations for old instruments. Ryan points out in his question that many municipalities experience a decline in population, and that this is due to the use of wrong instruments in district and regional policy. I think he's got a point, even though he might take a hard time. Developments in the pattern of residence have been in a centralising direction, both regionally and nationally, throughout the post-war period. The reasons are complex but closely related to changes in industrial structure, educational communities and changes in residence preferences. However, high birth rates have led most municipalities to maintain the population for a long time despite moving. This situation has now turned upside down. Thus, a central reason for the decline in the population in several municipalities is not an increase in the tendency to move, but demographic conditions. However, if we compare ourselves with other countries in the Nordic countries and Europe, we are able to maintain important aspects of the settlement. All parts of Norway experience growth in the population, and all have more strong and growthable regions. What would this picture have looked like if we had not pursued an active regional and regional policy? After all, I believe we have achieved a lot of positive results. The interpellant raises two important questions: what do we see as important instruments in rural and regional policy, and what means should we use in the future in rural and regional policy? Ryan is proposing a district commission that can look with new eyes on the instruments. I think this is an interesting and constructive proposal. We agree that today's instruments need to be adapted to the major challenges in the future. At the same time, a work has been started to provide us with the basis for the inter-pellant demand assessments. In the autumn of 2001, the government of Stoltenberg set up an expert committee. The selection shall clarify the impact of the different types of State action that have a significant impact on regional development and regional policy objectives. They shall provide the final report at the end of 2003. However, in the autumn of 2002 an en route report on efforts affecting industrial development and the labour market will be published. The investigation shall include both regionally justified schemes and other efforts of importance for regional development and regional policy objectives. The work shall be seen in the context of the evaluation of the instruments in the Finnish and Northern Troms Action Zone and the review of the system of differentiated employer charges. Central parts of Norwegian regional and regional policies lie in the framework conditions for our business and in the decisions we make in heavy policy areas such as transport, primary industries, oil and gas policy, municipal transfers, tax and tax policies, to name a few. Specific regional and regional policy efforts are relatively small in relation to this, but are correctly used to deliver good results. On the basis of the material from this expert committee, possibly including the in-flight report in the autumn of 2002, it will be appropriate to set up a new, broader and policy-driven sample, or a Commission for which Ryan has addressed – in order, if possible, to contribute to a broader political consensus on key challenges in rural policy, including: based on the material of the professional team, this is the so-called power selection. However, it must be stressed that, pending this work, as the inter-pellant also said, we cannot fail to pursue an active regional and regional policy or work on the necessary conversion in the use of instruments. I would like to highlight some of the main lines of the Government's policy of importance for regional development. The Minister of Local Affairs will examine this in more detail in his statement. Firstly, improved framework conditions for industrial activities. Many of the export companies exposed to competition are outside the main urban areas. In the global economy, Norway has to claim to be an attractive location. Business must be given competitive and predictable framework conditions with regard to the level of taxation. We have to have an infrastructure and transport policy that can compensate for remote interference. We will work for clean and simple legislation and efficient and user-oriented public service production. Secondly, efforts to increase innovation. The representative Ryan had a chronicle in the nation 19 February this year called «Can the sunset become sunrise?» I think the chronicle had many good points. In particular, I liked the image that Ryan used of districts like ‘luxury green plants. They must be given good soil, they must be given attention and they must be in a good light." He also pointed out that innovation and innovation culture must be the engine that makes the districts strong, viable and vibrant. I fully agree with that. The government wants to strengthen its commitment to innovation and start-up. We will not least contribute to stimulating the interest in innovation among young people and among women. Thirdly, the development of high-growth regions. In all parts of the country, there are high-growth cities and regions with strong skills and business environments. Further development of high-growth regions and regional value-creating environments in all parts of the country will be effective to prevent one-sided accumulation around the capital. At the same time, it will provide a positive national economic development and will make an important contribution to giving people the freedom to live where they want to. The government will pursue an offensive policy for the location of government jobs outside Oslo. With today’s communications and the expertise available in Norway, few tasks necessarily need to be in the capital region. Fourthly, efforts in areas with specific challenges. Even if we succeed in an active regional policy, there will be a need for specific measures aimed at relocating areas with high migration needs. It's the sum of the things that make people move to a municipality – and not least become residents there – that's crucial. Many district municipalities are dependent on immigrants, for example: to fulfil important tasks in the production of municipal services and in local businesses. Young people in the establishment phase are a central group to ensure such recruitment. I would like to end by stressing that the Government is adding to the great degree of decentralisation of instruments, tasks and responsibilities, both to the municipalities and to the county councils. We will also strengthen the local economy, as the representative was involved in it, we will reduce the designation of state resources and allow municipalities to have access to the gains achieved by improving efficiency. At the same time, we will strengthen the role of the county council as a regional development actor, and we will soon be presenting a key message such as: deals with this. We need an active regional political actor who can contribute to the establishment of committed partnerships for cooperation on positive regional development. We trust that the county councils will take on this challenge and this role. I think that by focusing on the opportunities in the districts, we have the opportunity to succeed in creating a positive development for the benefit of our entire country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e267	First of all, I have to complain that I went beyond speaking time. I didn't get the lamp lit, so either I have to start taking glasses, or I have to go with a little better on the right-hand side here. I don't have a tradition to follow on the right hand side, so that's where I have to tighten up. [[laughs in the hall]] I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is attending and says that he is actually in favour of the main proposal in the interpellation, which is that we should look at Norwegian district policy with new eyes through a commission. We have had commissions here in Norway in the past that have done a formidable job. I remember the Employment Commission, which did an excellent job in its time. I hope that this district commission will get the same status and do a job at least as good as the Employment Commission did. In that work SV wants to be a member of the Government. We are committed to both our competence and our willingness to find policy solutions when we get started with this important job. So we're very happy with the answer to our main question. I just want to comment on two or three of the things that the Prime Minister had in mind. The Prime Minister was concerned that we have been pursuing an active district policy in Norway for many years. And that is correct with regard to many countries. Norway has pursued a better rural policy than, for example: Sweden. We who have moved in North and Middle Sweden, see what the absence of district policy has led to there. This also means that Sweden is currently doing considerable repair work to correct the damage caused by the centralisation done in the past. Both through own resources and significant EU funds are driving Sweden today and repairing the damage done, and I see no reason for us to make the same mistakes here in Norway, so that we have to make significant repairs. This with growth-centre thinking is to the extent a thought that can be offensive. But every regional centre is dependent on a suburb. On the day surrounding a regional centre is gone, there is no regional centre anymore – then it is the outer edge. So you have to work with the growth center in combination with having a surrounding area that works. If not, the growth center is not a growth center. Then I will finally comment on the relationship between city and country. My party doesn't like the city and the country being set up against each other. There are two things that are equally important for Norway. We're going to have a real urban policy in this country that takes care of our citizens in the cities. There is no contradiction between a good urban policy and a proper district policy, where we do the same for those who live in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e280	The President would just like to point out that the representative must also learn to look to the right, otherwise he will become a significant risk in traffic, not just in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e283	Yes, President, unlike the lights in traffic, there's no yellow light here that gives a warning before you get the red. Otherwise, as a center politician, my experience is that in traffic it's wise to look a little bit to both sides, because the dangers can trick both to the right and to the left. In the case of a possible district commission, I said it would be topical, and of course I stand by that. I'm glad that the representative on this issue has a perspective towards 2005, the next big shot, because I think it's right for us to get at least the main material, maybe all the material, from the reduced expert committee, the so-called Effect Committee, so it's not working in parallel here. How to attack the political follow-up after – hopefully – the valuable basic material is available, I think we should give ourselves some freedom to think through. However, one of the instruments in question is, of course, a Commission, and the advantage of this is that, if possible, one can also develop a broad political consensus. It was, among other things, The purpose of the Employment Commission, which was actually signed by the Christian People's Party here in the Grand Duchy, together with the parliamentary leader Kåre Gjønnes, who in his time took the initiative. We were satisfied with that Commission and the result of it. So I have so far good experience with commissions, but then it must be a will to find broad political solutions and not primarily to pursue political polemics, which I may think have been too much influenced by district policy. Ryan is quite right that the wit is equally distributed in different parts of the country, and I think the wit is actually also relatively equally distributed among different political parties, including in terms of district policy. That's why I'm concerned with cross-party cooperation, of dialogue. That's why I also found that I myself wanted to respond to this interview, because I think the interpellant has a very correct and positive starting point, namely that district policy is not just to paint further on all known instruments and primarily to polemise around the allocation of a few instruments. But I think that we're going to recover the settlement across the country, without necessarily having to be exactly the pattern of settlement that we have today, we have to be willing to think new, and that's what I've seen as the main point of the interpellant. I'm glad. I hope that all the other parties will join in, so that the regional policy debate can get a new twist. That is why I think this has been a positive initiative, and I hope that the further debate today, and not least the one that comes after the Mayor's statement on 30 April, will follow in some of the same innovative tracks and not just in the old ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e292	It's an important issue the interpellant addresses. New samples may provide new assessments, and this may be good. But the problem is not primarily a lack of knowledge. We know that we need to develop robust labour, housing and service regions where the population can meet its needs. We know that we need to build up under a profitable and competitive business. We know that knowledge means more and more, and that we need to strengthen training provision in the districts. We know that we need to develop good value creation environments, that we need to apply new technology, that we need to have a conscious government localization policy, that we need a strong public service offer, and that we need to strengthen creativity, but also the identity and relation through an active local cultural life. So the problem is not that we do not know what is necessary for a more active district policy. The problem is that the Prime Minister and his government are doing the exact opposite of what is necessary. Mr Bondevik's government proposed a cut of 350 million in regional policy instruments during the budget procedure in the autumn. kr. The industrial policy assets were cut by a total of DKK 1.7 billion. Where Bondevik I proposed to strengthen municipal nutrition funds, Bondevik's second government proposed to cut all such support. Where Bondevik I proposed a strong commitment to regional coordination, Bondevik II proposed to cut all such support. Where Bondevik I proposed to increase support for the quality of water in enterprises, Bondevik II proposed to cut all such support. Where Bondevik I proposed to cut off all such support. Now we see that the government is moving on. The government proposes steps towards greater privatisation in the school system and a greater degree of private health care. What will be the result of that? Well, the result will be a greater clumsiness in central struts and a weakening of district policy. The Minister of Fisheries will release the universal obligations of trawlers. The result is that many communities that depend entirely on fixed deliveries no longer have the security they have previously had. Therefore, it is necessary to pursue a different district policy than that to which the Prime Minister and his government are committed. I note that the Prime Minister wants agreement on district policy. So does the Workers' Party. But the Labour Party, and I presume the Socialist Left, too, want to agree on a strengthened district policy, not on the degradation of the district policy that Bondevik and the Government have set up. In this way, I see the interpellant's performance today as an initiative to strengthen the regional policy effort, and I hope Prime Minister Bondevik will come back to the vision of the Christian People's Party before they entered the government position, and not follow the line of the Right and Advance Party, as they have done after they entered the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e305	I think both the interpellant and the Prime Minister have had a positive approach to both the interpellant and the answer. I must say that after hearing the Workers' Party's follow-up to this, there is no reason for optimism about making any attempt to think again. You have to do that in this case because the population forecast of the Central Statistical Office for the next 20 years clearly shows that every five years we get a 2-3pst. population growth in this country. At the same time, we will see that in the municipalities that today have population decline, the decline will continue to accelerate in the same negative direction, while the municipalities that today have growth will continue to grow if we do not want to navigate differently. Can an optician visit to Ryan help him to be willing to look and think again about regional policy solutions, I think it would be worth an investment. For no part of this country is more exposed to competition and exports than just those parts of the country that the representative Ryan wants to pay more attention to. Then we can't meet these jobs, which we have mainly located out in District Norway, with every day to give them ever worse conditions of competition. Norwegian fishing industry is holding breath during these days, not just because it has little to fish on, but for competition reasons. Due to the lack of commercial arrangements, it is expected that other bodies will take decisions concerning what we have said to be the new coastal economic locomotive. So we have left to trading blocks in other countries, for example, the EU, to take care of the further fate of our leading export industry. It must be a paradox that there are more Norwegian salmon workers in France and Denmark than in Norway. And if Ryan takes an initiative for innovation in this area, we have brought this debate a level, and a necessary level, further. Norwegian agriculture cannot be the thing that is going to rock District Norway. The number of persons employed has halved in the last 20 years despite increased transfers and increased bets. This trend will continue to develop in the future in the same way. Unfortunately, in 20 years' time, the number of employees in this industry will be halved again. We need to safeguard the interests of export-oriented competitive activities. It's the only solution for District Norway to survive. At least you can't survive what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen left behind, Europe's highest interest rate base. There is nothing to be proud of politically that we are going to adorn the top of Europe. If we can't do anything about these relationships, we've linked our destiny to one community; it's high crude oil price, high gas price, high dollar price and a strong dollar price. It's like a poison for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e318	I agree with the inter-pellant in one area: 20 years of district policy and several billion dollars have not worked. Then we have to think about something new. And to think new in this context is not to think town and country separately. We must have a common policy that promises the whole country. And in order to be able to include the districts in the general policy, we need to look at distances. It's the distances that create edge, and these distances are reinforced by wretched roads and high charges for transport, which is actually the interpellant of increasing. District policy consists to a large extent of transfers without any requirement or requirement. As a result, you have preserved both a residence and an old - fashioned industrial structure. The old notion that everyone has the right to live where you want to, regardless of whether you have a job or not, cannot be passed on. I'm afraid that the interpellant with his commission wants to continue this policy and strengthen it through increased subsidies – that is, increased subsidies by allowing people to get their money back in such a ludicrous way that they think it's a gift. I am afraid that the interpellant is also thinking of using agriculture as an instrument in district policy. Then I will be allowed to quote Ole Gjølberg, professor at Norway's agricultural high school, who says that ‘billion-dollar transfers to agriculture have made it impossible for other industries to get foothold in Bygde-Norway. Some thought that the large transfers to agriculture would stabilise or even activate settlement in Building Norway. In a long-term perspective, transfers have led to the opposite. The forces that are fighting today to pursue agricultural policy from the 1970s are fighting for an accelerated reduction of Norwegian rural areas". And that's exactly what I think the interpellant will continue. If we're going to think again here, as the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen tried to imagine that the Workers' Party is doing, we have to do what the Prime Minister actually had to do, we have to think about tax and tax policies and not least infrastructure. We also need to think about risk capital for districts. The re-establishment of industrial activities in the districts is necessary to maintain a stable Building Norway, not to maintain the old-fashioned Building Norway where people are to live without having a function at all. Otherwise, I must say that I am very pleased that the Prime Minister now concludes that we must think again, in line with what the Progress Party has said for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e336	Much of the conceptual use associated with district policy is interesting. In general, concepts such as ‘subsidies’, ‘transfers’, ‘subsidies’ are used. Some of those concepts are also used in the case of u-help – they are given from those who have initially created values to those who have not created them, in order to be able to subsidize or support someone who is in an emergency. That perspective is also shaping our district policy. From such an understanding of reality, it might be interesting to make a thought experiment: let's imagine that you put a fence around Oslo and a fence around my own state, Finnmark, and said that now you're getting ready as best you can from the resources you're given, and then we'll see after a while what we're going to do about it. If you think you really did it in such a perspective, that means you must have turned off the light in Oslo the same day. In Finnmark, it is clear that the diet would have become one-sided, but one would have been able to live off the fishing resources so long that after a certain period of time it would be reasonable to imagine a development where more people might have come from Oslo, because it was cold there, one would have turned off the light, to Finnmark to exploit the fishing resources. A similar thought experiment could be done for a number of Westerners. They would have been very good themselves, and they would have strengthened the possibility of a future settlement, while in Oslo a relatively rapid emergency would have taken place. But the starting point for the vocabulary we use in terms of district policy is that we think that the values taken from the districts and moved to the central eastern region come there because it's quite natural that it's where the values finally belong. When they are then taken out again after they have been picked up in the districts where the values were created, they are called subsidies, transfers, subsidies. It is clear that if we continue to pursue policies in this country, namely that we think that the usual policy is the policy of the creation of value in the central eastern region, and we also have something on the side of what we call district policy, which is about transfers, subsidies, grants, the development we see will just continue. An example of how it will be strengthened is the nature of the fisheries policy that the current government has set up. When Svein Ludvigsen says that there is a greater need to invest in the sea fishing fleet and, to a lesser extent, in the coastal fishing fleet, it reinforces the image that I have now drawn, namely that the regions, the areas that could have created the values, are being defused, and, instead, are being set to carry the values further and further away. That means that some of the first government should address is its own fisheries policy, and that the first settlement the government should take is in relation to its own fisheries minister if one believes something relative to focusing on another policy that can give hope for the future in Norwegian district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e347	When the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen approaches a negative trend that has remained for 20 years, with a criticism of the budget for the current year, it is mildly untimely. If we know all this that Schjött-Pedersen claimed, why does the government of Stoltenberg put down an expert selection in October just to look at the effects of the tools in the district policy, both the narrow and the broad? No, in district policy we also need new ideas, and that is what we intend to do. Norway is a piggy country, and it will always be. But along our coasts and our fjords enjoy an important and lucrative business. If we empty District Norway for people, for youth, we also lose entrepreneurial income, entrepreneurial income that creates currency and future. Norway can't afford it. Key future industries such as fisheries, aquaculture and tourism depend entirely on viable rural areas. If people move, school is closed, and services are lost, neither can those who drive the vital business stay there. In fact, it is not that Oslo and central struts support the districts. The West has 20 pst. of the population and 40 pst. of export income, excluding oil and gas. Many district municipalities have a large net transfer to central districts, without having the road standard and the infrastructure that businesses in the municipalities are in despair of missing. I just visited Fusa Municipality, a small inland municipality in Hordaland. They're subsidising the central strike by 2 million. SEK in week all year round – 100 million. kr per year. So it's a surplus municipality, but the rich are far from it, and they have the way that foreigners most have never seen. There is still no car passing except in meeting places. Enterprises that create millions of surplus are losing every day on a miserable infrastructure, and the managers of words are naturally despairing. We need a district policy where the districts can keep more of what they create. I am in favour of a district commission, with the framework outlined by the prime minister, and I hope that the mandate will be such that one not only takes on things to reverse the movement stream, but also gets the true picture of the stream of money and the effectiveness of the large sums of money that we still have, which are called district funds. Large parts of District Norway do not ask for subsidies, but to keep a little more of their own value making, and it is a good economy in good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e365	Norway has a living countryside. The center party thinks it's an advantage both for the city and for the village that we have it. The Bondevik I government took important steps and power to brake the moving current. New optimism in agriculture, business, women’s and youth’s activities are examples of this. The Bondevik II government came into the fall. The weakening, in part, of key regional policy instruments in the 2002 budget was an important observation. The Central Party proposed an Inland Commission in the present year's budget. We think the initiative taken today by SV is very positive, we want to support it, and we also think it is gratifying that the Prime Minister will evaluate it more closely. But when the Prime Minister now meets here, he had the opportunity to give more concrete signals to those who want to bust in the districts and who want to vary jobs as a basis for it. When it comes to the measures taken by the Government so far, there is no particular assurance that the Prime Minister is standing here and telling the Government to think again. For the government's innovation so far has, with one exception, the relocation of jobs, unilaterally entailed a weakening of public efforts and the public involvement of an active district policy. The Prime Minister should reply: Should agriculture still be a pillar for living people? What role should my Prime Minister's coastal fleet play in our country? And what about industrial policy tools? Would you like to increase or decrease the amount of effort they are currently working on? What about the municipalities? Should the smaller municipalities also be secure funds according to their tasks, or should the municipal minister's alarming signal be followed up? And then we have transportation, which is fundamental so that people can live in the whole district. Broadband can soon help to ensure that business in different municipalities consists of an A team and a B team, depending on where they settle down. Does the Prime Minister want the public to make an effort there? Will he bring up the racial protection plans, which may prevent many insecure parents from rushing into school because they are concerned that the young will not be able to get to school? Many business leaders also consider relocating their businesses due to a lack of presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e372	I would like to comment on many of the comments, but I agree with two or three comments. The first is for the representative Ivar Kristiansen and concerns Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture has undergone and is going to undergo significant changes both in structure and in other things. But Norwegian agriculture will always be one of the main berries of Norwegian district policy, because Norwegian agriculture has so many tasks. One task is to get us safe food. Another problem is that we're going to have a food preparation in this country. And a third important task is to preserve a cultural landscape that allows us to be proud of our country, so that it doesn't grow again. So while Norwegian agriculture is both going through and going through changes, there will always be a main pillar of Norwegian rural policy. So to the representative Per Sandberg, who says that district policy is transfers. I'm very provoked by that kind of statement. Think of all the transfers we make to the capital! Think of all the transfers we make to the capital with taxpayers' money in terms of trams, railways, public transport, theaters, operas, etc.Oh, my God! I think that's right. We're going to transfer a lot of money to the capital. But there is nothing worse to transfer some money to racial protection and important nutrition measures in District Norway. You have different needs in a big city and in the districts, and both are based on transfers. We pay taxes to this society, and then it's the Storting that decides how we're going to spend the tax money. And that it's a four-word when the transfers go to the districts and a plus word when they go to town is incomprehensible to me. At the end of the day, I am very pleased that many people have taken a positive view of the Prime Minister's agreement to set up a district commission. I think that suggests that the Storting, like SV, does not want the previous 20 years to be repeated when it comes to depopulation of Building Norway. I am very pleased, and I hope in the future that we will have a constructive and good cross-political debate on how we can solve this problem together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e383	I have also noted and felt that there were many interesting contributions to what we have now heard, in the further debate on district policy. I thank the interpellant for the initiative, because I think this was a constructive approach. But it obviously didn't help either with his or my appeal to the other parties to show will to dialogue and think again, because the Labour Party's main spokesman went straight into the ditch and ended up in a pure polemic, stuck against SV's approach. It shows once again that SV may become a slightly more constructive interlocutor, not to say a partner, than the Workers' Party is currently. Schjött-Pedersen said that the problem is not primarily a lack of knowledge. Then I wonder if it was just the government he was in, who set up an expert committee to get more knowledge about the effects of the regional policy instruments. So here's something that doesn't match the Working Party in position and in opposition. Schjøtt-Pedersen believed that the Co-operation Government is responsible for a reduction in district policy, and that there is concern about it. Yes, Schjøtt-Pedersen remembers well when he himself was in government. It was when the so-called district uprising began in Finnmark and had real strength. However, I must remind you that the Cooperation Government, without further driving the polemics forward, has strengthened infrastructure and communication both in terms of roads and air prices. We have strengthened and improved the conditions of taxation and taxation for the labour market. That we have a strong business life is the backbone of the whole district policy. And we actually had a better community economy than the Stoltenberg government laid down in its draft budget. But enough about it – back to the more forward-looking. Although we are going to think about a new approach to regional policy, I think it is quite right, as in particular. Ryan was inside his last post, that the primary industries, among them agriculture, still have to be a backbone in many parts of Building Norway. We will also take that with us as we go into the spring farm. Where we may have the highest growth potential is in the coastal industries – the marine industries. The government prioritizes it. We have just set up our own government committee to lay down the lines for a forward-looking policy to further increase the value creation of our marine industries, not only in traditional fishing, but also in farming, fishing and aquaculture in a broad sense. That's where I see a lot of opportunities. I think that the representative Ballo had an interesting and correct approach when he pointed out that very much of the value creation in our country is happening in the districts, and that it's going to be a bad picture if you think that central strokes subsidize the districts. We'll have to think completely, and I'll invite you to the dialogue that Ryan set up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e396	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e410	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e419	Norway has had laws on target use in public services for 70 years. Even though the laws have worked well in the near future, they have nevertheless worked positively and were one of several necessary premises that the neo-Norwegian script culture has the position it has after all. For many of us, neonormous is more than a language: it's also about collective identity. Still under pressure. The debate around – and the resistance from the individual towards – the mandatory secondary education in the school is a frequently recurring theme. I'd like to offer sincere commendation to the State Council for the great news of public service target use in Haugland. Here there are several targeted measures that testify that the Council of State really takes seriously that we have two target forms in Norway. The majority of the committee, all outside the Progress Party, supports the message and the objectives and actions outlined. Since I only have five minutes of speaking time, it is not advisable to enter all the areas supported by the majority committee. However, I would like to point out that after the state took over the hospitals, the debate on whether hospital workers should follow targets or not, has gone – and is going – in many countries. The Council of State itself made it clear in its letter of 23 January 2002 that the target law should be followed, but at the same time expresses a desire for a rapid clarification of the issue. This also applies to other enterprises, e.g. The post office, the NSB, the road offices and the Swedish Aviation Agency. A minority – SV and the Central Party – want the Government to change its target law so that any doubt about compliance with the target law is removed. Proposal No. 1 will unfortunately not get any plurals. I will nevertheless encourage the Council of State to take this task seriously and give it a high priority in the ministry. The size of the population has, in several respects, underlined the importance of state intervention in the field of cultural policy when it comes to the development of neo-Norwegian software. Should the newnorth have a safe position both as a live usage language and as an equivalent official writing language alongside book goals, common computer applications must be available on both target forms. I would also like to ask that the Ministry’s work on assessing how market power can be used be given a high priority. Only 12 out of 78 laws came out in new Norwegian in the period 1997–2000. A minority – the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party – think it should be a goal that the legal text itself leads to both forms of goals. This may be labour- and resource-requiring, but I still want to challenge the Council of State and ask whether it might consider considering a testing scheme where e.g.: a minimum of the legal texts can be found in both new Norwegian and bookkeeping. The message clearly indicates that it is far from 25 pst in all states. Nynorsk. The majority of the Committee argued that, within three years of the completion of the notification of the investment project, the target use rules should be met. The minority, from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, think that if this has not happened, a review should be made of laying down internal instructions in all national bodies on how to use the target use law. I would like to address a question to the Council of State: What action can the Council of State plan to take, if in three years' time the use of new technology is as low as it is today? If the measures and measures in the message become more than words on a paper, this can lead to a lifting of the newnorch. For 70 years we have had laws on target use in public service. Nevertheless, common computer programs are in the case of new drug shortages in state administrations, and new healthcare agencies refuse to comply with the target laws. Message-pending actions require prompt and concrete follow-up. It both needs and consumes the new nostrils. In the end: I find it in my place to quote Blessed Ivar Aasen and leave his words a guide for the neural work ahead: ‘Let it be marked in more words than in words that we keep that legacy in order that when the fathers see again on earth They shall know their people and their land." So I just want to put forward proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e465	The representative of Sollied Superior has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e468	It's been 70 years since the Stortinget first passed a law that would regulate the target use in the public sector. Much has happened since then. In 1980, it was decided that the Government would present at least every four years a big message on the theme of target use in the public sector. This is very important in order for the Storting to keep up-to-date on the situation with regard to the use of nynostic and bookkeeping in the public sector. The aim is to prevent a development towards just one writing language in this country. The news must remain a living language of use and an official writing language alongside books. It is gratifying that both the Norwegian Goal Team and the Lion Hill Goal agree that the big message we are handling today contains a lot of good reading. Nevertheless, we have to say that the target law still has some weaknesses. This is probably a result of developments in society in general, where technological development and all internationalisation also affect us every single day. Our language is our national identity and is very vulnerable to external influences. Recently the Committee in Spain was, and there was great concern about the Spanish language, so this is not a phenomenon just in Norway. In fact, the problems are bigger down in Europe than they are in us. But we have to be careful, because if the language is to be maintained, it must be used actively. All mobile phone usage and the font language developed through SMS messages worries me: individual letters, pictures, abbreviations and the use of English words help to reduce the Norwegian language. Both book goals and new ones need to be protected and strengthened. I am pleased that the Right – Progress Party I do not expect help from – is now in the majority opinion, together with the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, where it is emphasised how important it is to strengthen the Norwegian language, so that both nynosic and book goals can exist as full use languages in all parts of society. It was not as clear from the right during the work with Innst. S. No 174 for 1997-1998. A lot of things change, even for the Right, in a coalition government. It is also gratifying that the entire Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agrees that compulsory secondary education at school is essential for the full implementation of the rules on target use in central government. I think it's right that we're now spending $3 million. kr in the next three years to improve attitudes towards languages in general in central government. Hopefully, this will give a broader view of the importance of also new Norwegian as a language, and that this must be used actively if we are to make progress in the use of new drugs in the state institutions. One important thing about getting up interest in newnorse is active use in the media. Here, NRK district offices play an important role. Here, we're getting out both of the nine Norse and the dialects. This affects people's attitudes, and we get a more natural relationship with languages and dialects. Unfortunately, the section of the statement that computer programs to be purchased by the country should contain both target forms did not receive a majority. This regrets the Workers' Party, as we believe it is of great importance for new Norwegian language that the vast IT field is involved in stimulating the development of new Norwegian versions of computer programs. With regard to the use of languages in former management companies which have now been released, the Workers' Party wishes to wait until the Ministry comes back to this matter in connection with the work of a sample on the issue. The same applies to the issue of the target use in our new health businesses. Finally, I would like to point out that we must not get so narrow in our eagerness to distinguish between nynorrhea and bookkeeping that we do not have the ability to accept the use of words and expressions in different ways. Example of this is the word face, where one can also use the words face, face, face and gut. – We need all these ways of expressing ourselves in different contexts, where they of course get their own opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e494	Language policy in our country has the tradition of being an area where the temperature is rapidly rising in the discussions. Over the years, the language debate has brought together many emerging agendas, such as questions about the national profile, social conditions or sub-national cultures, which have not followed the life of the language that has lived in the population. Language requirements in the form of spelling rules or mandatory target forms have unduly provoked and made language use a conflict area. Language is an important part of our personality, and unjustified impositions across the natural languages of the individual will be perceived as a restriction of integrity. Language use is one of the strongest cultural policy-based means of power that anyone can use, and a real freedom will always include the right to choose a language. These are important recognitions to include in the language work. A good language policy must find the right balance point, where spelling rules and targets are felt to be natural, well-founded and appropriate. Such a policy will give a constructive attitude to the language of the population, rather than that the language should be a source of conflict. It is therefore with satisfaction that we can see that the policy in this area has fallen in many ways and that, in this matter, we see that there is a great deal of agreement on the arrangements in force. The public seems to have found good practices in relation to the public, and the impression is that the target use is practiced with good sense. However, it is desirable to strengthen the use of new Norwegian in relation to the percentage of documents produced within the public in this language. Therefore, the right supports the measures proposed by the Government to achieve the targets we have set, by 25 pst. nynorphic rate. As the issue of cross-target education has been raised in the debate, I would like to mention that there is an area where the Right does have some reservations. We don't find any reason to stress that point right now, just because it's not part of this case, but this is probably an area we should look at in the long term a little bit more closely in relation to what is an appropriate approach to make the growing generation thrive with both of our two languages. Right-wing believes it is a progress that there is no longer any goal in itself that we should seek a development towards one Norwegian writing language. Neural and bookkeeping must be able to live side by side and each have its own stand as a space for natural development. Mutual respect and sensible use of instruments and regulations are a good starting point for us to move forward in the work on Norwegian language – more important than an endless debate on the conflict between two forms of language, where both people understand very well. In the future, a more important issue than the question of novel or book goals will be the issue of Norwegian at all, balanced in relation to the English influence we are facing. The meeting with the international community and modern technology means that we know that English is going to apply in a completely different way in the Norwegian everyday language. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. But we should bring the debate over from whether we are going to have a conflict between book goals and new Norwegian, to how we can view our two writing languages as a common resource, and as a wealth in relation to how we are going to meet developments in the English-speaking international community. That's an important point, and I hope that the language debate can gradually get on the track that the conflict search can be put down in the relationship between bookkeeping and new Norse, and that we will rather look at the amazing total resource we have in our two writing languages to meet tomorrow's development. Of course, in the case of state companies or institutions, the right-wing government's input into that matter is waiting. But we want to emphasize that it is important to deal with the language issues with ease and with a good portion of healthy public health. Conflict is none of our two forms of language served, and use of power leads to conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e511	As the last speaker pointed out, the Right’s position on optional page targets has been part of the debate. We, who took part in the campaign last autumn, registered a number of right-wing politicians who went around Norwegian secondary schools and said that the Right was a guarantee that there would now be freedom of choice in the secondary education. The fact that you are now running from this election promise is alarming, but it is also one of many election vows from which the Right is running. Enough about that. As we see the objective of the target law, it is essentially to protect the right to use the target form that falls naturally, or as a choice, and to prevent discrimination against a target form. The Progress Party believes that the right to the choice of the target form must be a matter of course. We are opposed to any form of coercion and regulation that intends to force people to use a particular form of goal. So volunteering is the key word for us. Target form must result from individual human choices. At the same time as being able to choose one's main objective, one must also respect the equivalency and justification of the other. Norway is not alone in having more official languages. Take, for example: Belgium, Switzerland and Canada have two or three official languages which are very different. This is not the case in Norway. We have two "versions" of the same language. In practice, any normally equipped Norwegian has the ability to understand both target forms. And that's what's at the heart of the matter: communication. We don't think it will be possible in the long run to keep two target forms alive through coercion, control and regulation. It must be done through voluntary use of the language forms. We have set the two objectives against each other for too long by a policy that creates conflict and negativity. We have forced public case handlers to write in a form they do not control, and we have plagued young people by forcing them to write page targets that they do not need. We have also spent a lot of public money on subsidising measures to strengthen one of the objectives. This serves no purpose, nor has it worked. The use of sneezing has been reduced. I guess it sounds like I'm very negative to neuron. It's actually wrong. We are all aware that neo-Norwegian script culture has added more valuable taxes to the Norwegian cultural heritage, but this is in the form of individual involvement and not state overgovernment. There are not numbers and percentages that determine the viability of a language, but whether people use it voluntarily. We have recorded that the current government has been concerned with improving the efficiency of the public sector, claiming to want to cut down on unnecessary bureaucracy. If this is true, you have to start showing this in practice. You have to cut out unnecessary rules that only create more work and plunder. Take, for example: the target of a certain percentage of the weakest target form, of 25 pst. This, of course, is rigid, restrictive and bureaucratic. It imposes on the public unnecessary and bureaucratic, delaying link, which reduces the efficiency of the administration. If something really is meant by modernising and improving the efficiency of the public sector, it is appropriate to remove such provisions. The Progress Party has also registered that the majority of the Culture Committee will introduce its own language policy in order to control the employees of the State. When we can establish such things as this ‘language consultant’ service, as it should be called, there can be no lack of money in Norway. We also believe that State companies that have changed their form of operation, preferably to share companies, should be exempt from the regulations of the target law. To conclude, it is clear that the Progress Party is opposed to all measures aimed at increasing the scope of a target form by means of legislative regulation. We believe that government officials should be able to use the target form that falls naturally. Enquiries to a branch of books must be available in a new language if it is the official's target form and vice versa. I would like to take up with this the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e534	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e537	Ninnorph users are subjected to enormous pressure from both book targets and English, and it is easy to see dark in the future for the language. It is therefore important to bear in mind that today’s newnorm is a strong and vital user language with well over half a million users. From the neo-Norwegian communities, especially in the West, it is reported that the neo-Norwegian population is safe and even going to be dominant in the local business community. The telemark assembly adopted e.g. before Christmas that the new Norwegian language should still be the administrative language of the county, because the new Norwegian language gives the county a distinctive character and is a resource. So the New Norse have a lot to care about. Nynorsk is not a language of sotteseng! This makes the contrast great to the picture we see at national level and in the capital, where there is still too much old-fashioned language oppression to see. Ninnorph users today face a strong private book-keeping power, whether it is the large-scale Akersgata that prohibits journalists from writing novels or businesses that refuse to let new Norwegians into marketing and out-of-date use. The Storting report shows that there is not much better in some governmental bodies that are subject to the requirements of the law, even though it has been more pleasant after the Norwegian language council was given responsibility for the supervision of the law. The biggest obstacle for new drug users and newcomers is that more and more language powers, both in the media, in the private and in the public sphere, are being collected in the book destination city of Oslo. Some of the most effective things that could have been done for new jobs in the state are, therefore, to move government jobs from the Oslo area to new-Norwegian municipalities or cities with new-Norwegian surrounding areas, as the Landssaman accession of new-Norwegian municipalities has suggested. For LNK paper No. 2/2002 the Minister for Culture said: "If conditions so permit, several of the State workplaces in question should be added to active nine-norths." Is this view followed by the Council of State, so that there is now an interest in the Government's work on the relocation of state jobs? SV major the government's three-year project to meet the goals of the goal, and hopes this will make everyday life easier for newcomers who turn to the state. We have faith in the project and have, therefore, raised the question of linking sanctions to the target law. But we stress that if the three-year project is not closed, one must not hesitate to use stronger tools, and in the first place, we believe that regulatory requirements for internal language procedures in government agencies will be enforced. For SV, it is very important that the fundamental issue of the field of action of the target law is cleared up quickly now when the reorganisation of the state and the release of the former state agency are speeding up. The outsourced businesses play an important role in society, where it is very important that the newnorth is used and where he is already in use today. The goal promise must therefore be changed as quickly as possible so that it is the function of society and not the formal form of ownership that determines whether or not a target debt is committed. Actually, this is just about the goalloving thing to apply to the areas where it actually broke before. The government writes in the target notice that ‘distinguished companies and other bodies where there is legal doubt, as far as advice is concerned, follow the corresponding principle of its use as those on which the target law is based’. SV expects the Government to follow this up when the Post, NSB and other enterprises are now to be converted into a limited liability company. I would like to remind you here that this will not, at any rate, discriminate between state and private companies that may compete in these fields, since the State can easily use its concession image to set the same language requirements for private companies as for its own companies. We have gladly registered that the Minister of Culture of the LNK newspaper has said that it should be included in the Statute of the Post e.g. that they should comply with the laws of destination. SV will also stress the importance of speeding up the legal requirement that standard computer programs purchased by the country should lead to both target forms. Here, the state has a unique chance of seeing a breakthrough for new-surgery as an IT language by using its own market power, and without extra costs. It's too defensive to wait until the cultural message goes on with this matter. The IT revolution is going on, and there is already a good new Norwegian application for the Linux platform. Let me finally give credit to the Council of State for the personal commitment she has shown in this matter, and for a great deal of credit. SV fully shares the principle of public language policy and, not least, we are pleased that the Government is behind the principle that all elephants should have mandatory training in both new and book goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e561	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee, all outside the Progress Party, have joined in the analyses and actions presented by the Ministry in the message. It's good to have this to show when we're going to start intensifying our work. Because it is absolutely necessary to take a force, so that we get all the departments and other government agencies to take the goal seriously. In addition, we are working intensively on questions relating to the scope of the law. The situation of healthcare professionals thinks we can be clarified without changes in the law. In some areas, more extensive work will be required, but we are trying to find solutions that are of a more temporary nature. We'll all get back to the problem in the alert message. We have stressed in the message the purpose of the goal that the state has imposed on itself by law and regulation. And that's better than what I want to use my speaking time for. For percentage and control is not important in itself, it is only part of the travel tool that is needed to ensure linguistic justice for all who come into contact with state action. The goal is to keep both of the official variants of our writing language alive. And ultimately, the goal of the goal is to keep the linguistic soil in our country in claim. It requires that the newnorse also slip into the public space, that it is well visible. We who have a new background also need to find support for our writing goal, especially through what we read, but also through what we hear, for example. on radio and television. This may prevent more and more of us from actually being forced to interfere in the bookcase, and that the new nostrils are gradually drowning in the bookcase. We want to avoid young people with a neo-Norwegian background being subjected to language coercion, which is easily followed by such uniform dominance of one target form over the other. There is of course no bridge to a bookcase in this case. We just don't want it to be one target form alone. We're becoming so much poorer as a cultural nation, we're missing out on a multitude of long roots in Norwegian history and Norwegian tradition if we let the new Norwegians get through on their own. If we're careful to talk about novels in poems and songs, and say that new Norwegian is equivalent to book goals, we also have to draw some practical consequences from it. It costs a little bit, both money and effort – yes, call it a target line! We must not be so enchanted and enchanted by words as modernising and improving efficiency that we throw waste on achieving sectoral objectives through cross-sectoral instruments by making certain demands on our public language, on how government administration and business use Norwegian language. It is not possible to pursue language policies as a sectoral policy alone. Language policy must permeate the entire administration system, as the language itself permeates all social life. There is no strong interventional and coercive policy. We have stated in the message that there are clear limits to the extent to which language and language development is something that can and should be conducted by public authorities at all. However, it is not unreasonable to expect our public servants, most of them with a long academic education, to prepare themselves to write both forms of goals. It's a long tradition in our country, and it's based on the language training that's going on in school. Public service providers have a service role. It is those who should show linguistic respect for those they communicate with, and – no less important – for the language situation in our country. Should we not be able in this country to take care of our language – also to keep alive the cultural heritage that the language represents – if so, who would be in charge of such a task? Today, the dominance of bookkeeping and reach is great enough as he is. Then we cannot allow the state to fail a cultural responsibility of the highest order, because the language is our foremost cultural bearer. Norwegian script culture is both a novel and a book destination, and Norwegian cultural policy is to keep this script culture alive. Then we don't just have to place the newnose in the museum, not just bring it out at the feast and party. The struggle for new language and culture is part of the struggle to protect and strengthen Norwegian language and culture as a whole. Other countries, too, are currently engaged in developing policies to protect their national languages and to take care of language-based legal requirements. It is only one week since a parliamentary commission presented a comprehensive statement on the position of the ‘Swedish language’. So language and language policy are on the agenda of our neighboring country. The scheme is that the State should commit itself more strongly than before. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e590	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e593	As I said earlier, this message is very good. But there is one thing that is disappointing in the setting, and it is that the government parties do not see the need for computer programs purchased by the state to be available on both ends – and that with a government council that is a neo-Nordic user! The Government’s Communication highlights the importance of access to computer programs in their own way, both at school, in government, in the workplace and in private. So this is just going to be nice words. In particular, young people and young people with newnorms as their primary objective will face major obstacles. The Stoltenberg government started work on getting special computer programs for the school in both forms, but now it looks like the Bondevik II government has put this case to death. Is it so hard to follow up what the previous government had started? And what does a culture minister with a newfound objective intend to do to make common computer programs, purchased by the state, available on both target forms before the notified cultural message has been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e602	I can promise the representative, Pedersen, that this case will not be pending death. Clearly, this is something we want to address. Maybe we can come up with a result before the cultural message is produced, but I can't promise it today. There are a lot of things that have to work out before we can say that the state will require all computer programs on both target forms. One thing is that this can be almost free for the state that requires it, but there are some others who have to pay the bill. So it's important for us that we have all these different details in place before we go out clearly and say what to do. However, it is obvious that getting data products in a new language and book goals available to everyone is something that we will continue to work with. The cause is not dead. There is either a solution in the culture message, or the solution comes first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e609	When it comes to the relocation of state jobs, I have recorded that, in an interview with the LNK newspaper, the Council of State has stated that if the situation so permits, several of the State workplaces should be added to active new jobs. Can the Council of State confirm that she sees such a way of thinking positively? So notify the government in line with the message that the ministry will come back to the question of the goal laws and state health care agencies. I mean, this is urgent. And the signal that Telemark Goal Team is now considering voting Health South in for the court if they don't change their decision on hospital names, confirms this. Does the Council of State see here that there is a need for a rapid clarification, so that we do not have the debate that is going on, whether or not hospital workers are going to follow the goal? In the media, I have otherwise recorded that the Council of State will use carrots rather than whips when it relates to the use of nynorrhea in government agencies. But if there is no progress in the use of new funds in government agencies after the three-year bet period is over, what will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e618	First, this with state-owned workplaces. For my part, and for the Ministry of Culture, it will be one of the factors we take with us when we are going to assess where the state workplaces to move out are to be located. Of course, there are a lot of other arguments that come into that discussion. If you look at what has been done so far, Leikanger, as we have chosen, is an example of the fact that the argument with a new municipality is also a basis for my assessment to support Leikanger. I'm going to have that argument with me in the evaluations for the places to move out to. It will not mean that all state workplaces will be moved to the new Norse communes below, but it will mean that it is part of the assessment and part of the criteria that I from the Ministry of Culture will focus on. Then there were health professionals. There I have a dialogue with the Ministry of Health. Health professionals will be regional government bodies at the end of their term of office, thus making it a little easier for health professionals themselves to achieve their goals. It's natural that health care services west are very neural, while some of the others choose book goals, and maybe it's also about having a neutral goal form. Then you will be able to use the goal laws as they are today, in relation to these health professionals. There we are in a dialogue with the Ministry of Health, and of course we should be involved and influence, so that the goal-setting is maintained, also in relation to health professionals. So that's right, as the representative says, I'm more positive about using carrot than whip. Saying what I'll do in three years if we don't get what we want, I think I'm incredibly defensive. I'd rather evaluate that in the future. I want to follow developments, and then I want to see what needs to be done. An option, as a minority point to it, may be using the laws. It will of course be assessed in this way, but I do not want to point out today what to do if we do not reach the goal. I want to wait until we see what results we get by using carrots, as we intend to do, and so it's done well in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e627	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e632	I want to start by commending the Government for a good and thorough growth message about target use in public service. As a leader of Løvebakken Mållag, I am also pleased that there is a broad majority behind the main lines of Norwegian language policy. At the same time, the message shows that before the state achieves its own objectives of using new Norse language, and that Norwegian languages as a whole face major challenges in the years ahead. The future of new Norse language as a minority language, and of bookmaking and new Norwegian as a language of use in the future require us to be able to create a more offensive and actionable language policy than today. The most outrageous is the Nine Norse language, and it would be a tragedy for the whole nation if the Nine Norse font culture were weakened. The development of our entire language heritage and our language situation has had a decisive impact on the development of new languages. The rich new Norse literature we can all enjoy, depends entirely on the fact that neonorsk at the same time becomes sure of good terms like usage language and everyday language. The future of all languages, including the new Norse language, will be determined more and more by whether they get a foothold in the digital world. The government itself points to this in the message, but it has no more offensive objectives than to come back to the subject in the cultural message next year. It's been ten years, which is a long time in the IT field, and the Labour Party thinks it's high time to get some progress on the issue of developing new Norse versions of computer programs. I would like to remind you that there is now a complete and fully-fledged newnormous option for Linux for the most-used applications for Microsoft, which is only available in book target version. Another issue that has gone through several target use messages and settings is the relationship between the target and exempted states. I am concerned about a development in which the goal laws get less and less to say because former states are organised as own legal entities outside the target laws. I would like to stress the importance of the Government coming back to Stortinget as soon as possible with a clarification on the scope of the target promise. I am pleased that the Council of State, which is also a member of the Løvebåkken Gållag, has stated that she should be valid for the Post and NSB, which are now to be converted into a limited liability company. I expect that this view will also be present when the Government presents these transformations to the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e645	The pressure in Norwegian language and culture in the wake of globalisation and technological development is great. For the Christian People's Party, it is a language policy goal to prevent a development that in worst cases ends up with only one scriptural goal here in the country. We want cultural diversity, including linguistic diversity. I believe that today we have come to the conclusion that book goals and new stories are perceived by most as integral parts of a national common culture. In order for a language not to die out, it must be used. Nynorsk is particularly vulnerable, simply because it is the least widely used target form of nynorrhea and bookkeeping. This was some of the reasons why the Christian People's Party took the initiative to grant a start-up grant to the establishment of a neo-Norwegian children's book club during the treatment of the 2001 state budget. We in the Christian People's Party regard this as an important cultural measure, because in many places in the country it is difficult to get access to new children's books in the bookstore. The proposal for the Christian People's Party got a majority, and I'm glad. A living language depends on children and young people getting a natural and confidential relationship with their language from the very beginning and that they use it. The launch of the Ninorsk Children's Book Club is an example of positive tools that can be used to strengthen a vulnerable target form. There are many other measures that are also important. Let me briefly outline what I think we need to pay particular attention to in the future. Firstly, I believe it is essential that positive instruments are generally emphasised when Norwegian languages are to be strengthened. Here we should build on the precautionary principle instead of a little more defensive language protection. Secondly, the goal is and will be a decisive instrument in achieving the overall objective of language policy to strengthen Norwegian languages as a living language of use in all parts of society. If we also want to have two equivalent target forms in the future, we also need to use neo-Norwegian to the extent that the language is clearly visible in the public space. And whether we like it or not, it turns out that there has been a marked increase in the use of new drugs in those periods and in those areas where supervisory work in relation to target laws has been most active. However, although the supervisory work has shown good, concrete results, it is probably most important that good and stable procedures are implemented, so that each state body, and in particular the individual departments, performs its linguistic duties without outside control. To this end, it is positive that it became the majority of the Ministry of Culture’s strategy and plans to establish a language consultancy service. The use of both target forms, including in data, is important for the Christian People's Party. We will, as the Council of State said, come back to this. We haven't closed the door again. We know that it is important that the new technology also uses both types of targets. In the Christian People's Party, the use of both forms of goal will always be active, as we have both a party leader and a parliamentary leader who is very good at guarding his goal form.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e656	After listening to the Council of State's comments and replies to replies on health care professionals and the use of the target law, I note that there is a willingness to act here, or as the Council of State said: Goallova should be maintained in the claim. I think it should happen soon, but I have faith in the Council of State's will to act, and I do not want that proposal No. 1 is going to be down. That is why I ask that this proposal be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e661	Eli Sollied Överaas has made proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal. It will be taken into account. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2167]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e679	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e686	Anyone who will try to form a picture of what the proposal in Document No. 8:51 should include the following background information: The Fund for Performers was established as early as 1956 to provide performers with some compensation for performances by secondary performances, i.e. sound recording of their performance. And the fund's funds, which were built through a levy on such recordings, were to form a support scheme for performers like musicians, singers, actors, dancers, conductors, stage directors and others who, through their art, perform works of art. This is what the law says for the fund. The scheme was collective in the sense that the aid should be distributed mainly upon application by artists who live and work here in the country. The Fund for Performing Artists was established by a separate law, the so-called Fund Act, after which it was subsequently managed. This fund law has undergone several changes over the years, but two years ago, the Stortinget made two legislative decisions that substantially changed the nature of the fund, from being a sort of compensation scheme for recording carry-overs, to become a pure cultural fund. So in the spring of 2000, the Stortinget made two parallel decisions. One was the extension of the copyright law, which was, in fact, an adaptation to the EU rental directive. It meant that performers and producers would henceforth be entitled to remuneration for their performances under the copyright law, and now not only for broadcasting but also for all public performance of protected sound recordings. The amendment thus granted individual remuneration rights to performers and producers from all over the EEA territory and countries associated with the Roma Convention. Thus, the concept of ‘protected’ admission refers to the admission of artists from the countries associated with the Roma Convention. The remuneration was to be collected and distributed by the organisation Gramo established, among others. to this end. The second law was that, in parallel with the introduction of this individual remuneration scheme for all protected music under the copyright law, it was decided to maintain a levy for the public performance of so-called non-protected sound recordings. Non-protected recording means mainly the recording of American artists' performances from different genres. The reason for this was cultural policy to prevent a distortion of the music repertoire in disfavor of Norwegian and European music, i.e. an attempt to stimulate the use of in the first series of Norwegian, but also European, performances, by ensuring that American recordings would not be preferred for economic reasons at all. However, even if the fund's revenues from now on were mainly to be derived from a levy on American recordings, the target population of the fund's funds should be maintained as before. The funds were to continue to benefit Norwegian operators and producers. However, it is important to point out that the change made in spring 2000 eliminated the direct link that had previously existed between the fund’s income base and its target group, which are Norwegian performers. Today there is no such connection. The fund is a cultural fund. It shall be managed as a public administration system. Under the law, it is the King who appoints the board of directors and the Ministry who lays down detailed rules for the management of the fund. The law does not specify who should sit on the board or how large the board should be. An overall committee has in the setting of Document No. 8:51 also underlined that the Governing Board should have overall responsibility and ensure that diversity and breadth considerations are taken into account in the management of the Fund’s resources. It should then be taken into account that the Committee makes reference to the opinion expressed by a majority of the family, cultural and administrative committees at that time in the context of the above-mentioned legislative decisions. The majority, which at that time consisted of all parties other than the representatives of the Workers' Party, expressed their opinion that: ‘Funds for performers should endeavour to reflect the interests of artists and that the board of directors, which currently consists of four persons, should be extended in order to better meet this objective’. The representatives of the Workers' Party, who then sat with the government, took a separate note away from this view by claiming that the issue of the right of representation of certain groups over others should continue to be a regulatory matter and that it should be rejected by the Committee. «some leads in respect of the representation of directors in a fund financed by a public levy». However, the present state councillor Ellen Horn, from the same party, took the glove from the committee majority and said that she noticed the majority's view, and that the board would be "supplemented with a representative of the practitioners". In this light, it must be allowed to express some wonder about the activity of the Workers’ Party, and in particular Trond Giskes, which has been carried out only half a year later, in order to ensure that the performers are not only one more representative but two more. This is completely contrary to what the Workers' Party believed when they were in government. It is possible to claim that there is a material reality in this difference as to whether to collect three or four directors from the exercise. But for outsiders, this has to shine like a storm in a glass of water. However, it shall not be taken into account that, as a result of a budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, an overall committee during the last budgetary procedure took up the representation of the Executive Director in the Fund and, inter alia, in the Fund. stated that it was important that this ‘extended significantly’. The question in this regard was whether ‘essential’ should mean one or two representatives. As long as this was not further clarified, it had to be understood that the Department and the Council of State were still granted a certain space of action to make a discretionary assessment of something for which the Ministry and the Council of State have been entrusted under the law. Probably the Council of State also had other considerations to take care of at the same time, as that the board must have a functional size, in other words not be heavy-headed, nor be unnecessarily costly. The last thing would also mean that it would be less to distribute to the artists. Of course, the Ministry and the State Council of Reply City Haugland came to the conclusion that an extension with one representative over two was sufficient. But going to the step of instructing the Council of State and the Department on a matter that does not have greater dimensions seems to be an overreaction. It can best be compared to shooting sparrows with cannons. It is also interesting to note that the majority of the practitioners’ own organisations in their hearing opinions to the Ministry’s proposal to extend the Management Board by one member, supported by the Ministry’s proposal. I refer you to a letter from the department to the committee attached to the vote. Several representatives of the executive organisations have also supported the management of the ministry in the media and by other means. As rapporteur, I note that the draft document has a majority in Stortinget. I also note, however, that the proposal as it finally stands is much more moderate than what was pre-imposed by the media. Among other things, there is reason to note the majority’s clarification that: ‘setting-up rights do not mean that the members of the Governing Board perform with a mandate from their organisations, but that they provide with a special competence combined with general confidence in their environments that will contribute to the Board’s common base of competence’. That's something quite different. This must include, inter alia: is taken to indicate that something has happened during the process. There's a reason to be satisfied with that. Now we hope that work will be given to those who will care for the fund's resources, so that it can give a sorely needed vitamin spray to Norwegian performers, for the benefit of Norwegian cultural life. The members of the Committee from the Government Parties, together with the representative of the Central Party, have tabled a counter-proposal to express their continuing belief that it is the responsibility of the Government to determine the size of the Governing Board. I am addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e738	The representative Lånke has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e741	This Document No The 8-proposal, this debate and the decision that the Stortinget is going to take today should actually be unnecessary. This whole process, including a multi-month delay in the appointment of a new Board of the Fund for Performing Artists, could easily have been avoided. This would have happened if the Minister of Culture had simply followed unanimous comments from the Committee on Culture, had followed what the members of the Committee on Culture have stressed in the debate here in the Chamber, and simply followed what she knows is the will of the Storting. Fortunately, it belongs to the rarest units that Storting must pass through such rounds as today. In most cases, government councils follow what Stortinget says. It has not happened in this case. In setting up the Culture Budget for 2002, a unanimous Culture Committee states that in appointing a new Board of Directors of the Fund for Performing Artists, it is important to extend substantially the representation of the practitioners in the Fund and to give their respective organisations the right to appoint members of the Board of Directors. Neither the substantial extension nor the suspension right has been followed up by the Council of State. In response to the questionnaire on 23 January of this year, the Council of State rightly claims that an extension by one person is a significant extension. It's hard to expand a fund board first, to do it with something especially smaller than a whole person. It is also interesting to note that in the letter from the Ministry of Culture in connection with Document No. The 8th proposal writes to the Council of State that an extension of the Board of Directors by one additional member, as the proposal states, involves a very small amendment to the regulation adopted by the Ministry. The Committee was already aware that the Council of State had proposed to extend the artist representation by one person. When we chose the term ‘substantial’ expansion, it was to say that we wanted a larger extension than the proposal that was sent out at the hearing, without we saw it as necessary to say an exact number. It was also noted in the discussion about the budget that there was also an understanding from the government parties that a significant expansion meant more than one member. It was even asked whether the Minister of Culture was in agreement with that, and we received a confirmatory response from the Council of State's own party. In the same Question Time, the Council of State also claims to have followed up the right to vote by writing letters to the organisations asking for members of the board. However, there is a significant difference between a formal right of cancellation, where the Council of State must choose among the proposed persons, and the possibility for all organisations to write letters or call the department and make recordings at any time. We must therefore note that the Council of State has not followed up the comments of a unanimous Committee on Culture. These comments were also part of the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the government parties when it came to the cultural budget. The procedure of the Council of State is therefore not only a breach of unanimous comitology but it is also a breach of the budgetary agreement of its own party with the Workers' Party in the Stortinget. The Fund for Performing Artists is an important instrument in cultural policy. The Fund responds to the recognition that market forces do not always provide the best social outcome. It is an expression that, as a community and society, we must also take responsibility for the art and the artists for which there is initially no market for which to buy. That's how the fund is a married child of social democracy. Therefore, it has also been important for the Workers' Party to secure the fund. At the same time, when the Stoltenberg government ensured that rules were in place to guarantee artists their legitimate compensation for the public performance of works, we provided for schemes that ensured the income base of the Fund for Performing Artists. Yes, in fact, the fund will receive more funds for distribution in the years ahead than ever before. Together, it provides a huge increase in the total resources of performers. For many artists, the fund is very important. In many cases, the fund is crucial for the visibility of different projects and valuable art. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of the Fund as a cultural fund. For the Workers' Party, it is important that performers themselves have a decisive influence on how the funds are managed. We're doing the best we can by making sure that they're well represented in the board of directors of the fund. At the same time, the Committee stresses that the Management Board should have overall responsibilities and ensure that diversity and breadth considerations are taken into account in the management of the Fund’s resources. However, although artists are not to be representatives of their respective organisations, it does not matter who sits on such boards and makes decisions. Of course, the artistic vision, the experience and knowledge of the members will influence their assessments of the various applications. It is therefore important that the Governing Board be as comprehensive as possible in terms of both geography and artistic expression. With more artists' representatives it will be easier to achieve it. It is also important to ensure that all candidate artists actually feel that they are legitimate actors. I expect the future appointment of a new board of directors of the fund by the Council of State will take care of this. A formal right to set-aside gives organisations greater influence on who should sit on the board. Although not all relevant organisations can always sit on the board, it is important that those who actually sit there enjoy high trust among the artists. Such a process also provides equal opportunities for all organisations to make proposals, irrespective of more informal contacts and networks. I record that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee writes: ‘If, at the time of each appointment, the Ministry has to give priority to organisations, this may lead to constant concerns about the composition of the board.’ The Council of State must already choose today, but more in the hidden. The right of adjustment will not lead to more concern about the composition of the steering system, but to more transparency about the composition of the steering system. It is also interesting when the Council of State writes in its letter: ‘The selection of proposed candidates by the Ministry may exclude the appointment of good, unorganised candidates.’ To that it is two things to say: firstly, I assume – and I am absolutely convinced that will happen – that the organisations will propose good candidates to the board of funds. As there are many organisations that will propose and the Council of State can only choose few, it will be very unwise for an organisation to propose candidates that are not competent or good. Secondly, what is written in the Council of State's letter is a direct error. It's wrong. The recruitment of their members by organisations does not exclude good unorganised candidates. On the contrary, Document No: The 8-proposal that it is free for the Council of State to decide for itself how many additional members the Board of Governors should have in addition to the minimum number of representatives of the practitioners currently instructed by the Stortinget by the Council of State. In this matter, the Committee has been closely consulted on a part of the scepticism and fear that exists between different artistic environments. This fear and skepticism lead again to barriers that weaken the overall cultural life. Much of this, in my view, is due to unjustified suspicions and misunderstandings. It must be our task as cultural politicians, as the task of the Council of State as Minister of Culture and as the task of her cultural bureaucrats to bring down this fear and these barriers. Among other things, we can do that. by ensuring that the different environments meet in different forums and have to cooperate. Such a forum is the Fund for Performing Artists. Therefore, the Council of State would do a service to all the environments and to all the cultural life if, in the appointment of a new government, it really ensured that the different environments were represented. I'm sure a majority in this room now expects that to happen. I do not know what is the reason why the Council of State in this particular matter has chosen to ignore what a unanimous committee has said. It may sometimes be right and necessary for a Council of State to state its position and take a conflict with the Stortinget. This could be done, for example, by: because a case is important for the principles of the distribution of responsibilities between government and enlargement, or because it is of particular political importance to the Council of State. It is difficult to see that this matter is of such a nature as to affect the principal aspects of the responsibility between accumulation and government. We will then remain with the possibility that the Council of State believes that it is a politically very important matter for her to prevent performers from being given the right to vote and more than three members of the board of directors of the fund. I guess it's this, and not pure arrogance towards the Storting, which is behind the government's election. Of course, state councils are free to choose their political blows. She is free to choose which issues she believes are of such political importance that it is important to go across a unanimous culture committee. But if she is receptive to good advice, my clear view will be that both the relationship between the Council of State and the Committee and the relationship between government and greatness will be served by her limiting this procedure to the major and important occasions. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e796	The representative Lånker says that with this document no. The 8-proposal we're shooting with cannons. But for the Progress Party, this is about a unanimous committee that has laid down some leadership that the Council of State should have complied with. Whether the matter is large or small, at least for the Progress Party is subordinate. It is unbelievably surprising that a unanimous decision at the budgetary procedure in December 2001 is no longer unanimous. Government parties no longer agree with themselves whether it is important for relevant organisations to have the right of suspension of the Executive Fund Board. The Progress Party would go much further in its specific remarks on budgetary procedures in democratising the Fund for Performing Artists, but we were alone on this. We joined the subsidiary solution, which gave a unanimous comment from the Committee on the Extension of the Governing Board and the right to vote. When I looked at the budget procedure in Stortinget, the Council of State asked if it was her intention to follow up this remark from a unanimous committee, her answer was that it was, but she did not like it. This answer becomes very clear when we see that this comment has been completely translated into further work. And then it's in its place that we clarify what we mean, through this Document No. The 8th proposal. Indeed, the majority of the Committee’s wishes are simply that the relevant organisations should be placed on the man or woman whom the organisation itself considers to be best placed to sit on the Executive Board of the Fund for Performing Artists. Then it's up to the Council of State to put together a government that has the necessary width to give a representative picture of the performers. That this is going to create as much noise as it has done so far, I don't understand. After all, it is not just a good and democratic organisational principle and to maximise the breadth of the Fund for Performing Artists. The fact that organisations that are already represented in the board of directors of the fund should hear that they do not want the right to set up is, to put it mildly, quite alarming. Had this been at the negotiating table when it was about the same organisation's wage negotiations, I think the pipe might have got a different sound. It might seem like you're afraid of letting others go. If the proposal contained in Document No: The 8-proposal, adopted, we now expect it to follow up on the intentions that have been set up, and that we will release another round on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e813	Sometimes extra rounds are necessary. In this case I would like to be extra rounds in addition. But here we are, there are new rounds and new clarifications to take care of the intentions of the comments of a unanimous committee in the budgetary procedure. Now we have to move on, now personal prestige, private feuds and suspicion of other people's motives have to give way to a new government as soon as possible. I am pleased to note that the opening up of our proposal for the selection and composition of the fund's board has increased all the way in the process, late from the Dance and Theatre Centre, formerly among others. by the Musician Joint Organisation. The discussion, as I see it, has mainly gone into two aspects. One has been the number of members of the board and how many to represent the artists. The other has the right to set up the practice organisations. Firstly, the Committee was unanimous in its call for the ‘significant’ extension of executive representatives, from two to three or four, one extra or two more. Some thought that three were too small, while others thought that four were too many. Even I have always been incomprehensible to all the feelings that have been put on this question. I think the fund could do the job with three executives, but also no problems with four, cf. the wish for the widest possible composition to ensure that the Board of Directors of the Fund reflects the breadth of Norwegian cultural life. Lånke talked about that the board has to have a functional size. I believe that the board of directors of the fund will not lose its functionality even if it goes from three to four executive representatives. Secondly, the right of setting: some did not want this for reasons of principle, while others were satisfied with the appointment as it has worked. Not surprisingly, these other mainly people have representatives of groups who have been on the board or who sit there themselves and are satisfied with the appropriations that have been made. If the process that we have now been through has led to something good, I believe it is just at this point, namely the clarification of how the right of adjustment is to be understood in this context. With the right to set up, I do not think of the letter that the Council sent out, which I consider more like a letter to a friend and nothing to do with the right to set up. What we have made clear is that all applicant good practice organisations are encouraged to sign up for their candidate or their candidates, alone or with others. Among these, the Council of State picks out four people on a free basis — well to mark among the candidates that the organisations themselves appoint — in order to give the board the widest possible composition in terms of artistic expression. It is also important that the Governing Board as such has overall responsibility and ensures that diversity and breadth are taken into account in the management of the Fund’s resources. It is also worth noting that although the representatives of the practitioners are nominated from individual organisations, the rules and intentions of the fund are general. The practitioners do not object with a tied mandate or the like from their organisation, either. They provide special expertise in their specific fields, combined with general confidence in their environments. In this way, an expanded exercise representation will ensure that the Board of Directors of the Fund reflects the breadth of Norwegian cultural life. And to Loan: In what was a unanimous committee position when we dealt with it – where we from SV went to sleep because we thought it was too strict – we have now received all the other moments, moments that I cannot understand that Loan does not see a clear improvement in relation to the proposal that we first agreed to. In this way, I wonder that – with the improvement that Lånke also believes is there – one cannot endorse that proposal and the clarifications that are now there. So to a problem when it comes to this with the right to set up. It's a little – what to say – inconceivable that a lot of those who now have the right to vote have double membership, i.e. that they can apply through several organisations. For example, the Norwegian Artist Association may be a member of Gramo, and they may also be a member of the Music Joint Organisation. And this doesn't just apply to this group. Almost all groups have some kind of double membership. That's what we've chosen in this game not to problematize. But I think that until the next board should be put together, maybe it should be a clean-up round to figure out how to do this with the right to set-up, so that you can't get into three or four rounds. What's this about? Why do we have this conflict? I can see that it's an old conflict. The practitioners in pop/rock have received money, as I see it. They have from the allocations that have been made, nothing to soothe at all. And I have also not seen any significant objections to how the fund has been managed. What this has been about is that representatives of this kind of culture have never been found worthy of a place in the board. I think the most important thing here is that also these groups, i.e. a representative of these cultural expressions, now enters the board of directors of the fund – not only for the sake of money, but also that they are allowed to sit at the table and show that they do, that they also have a view of cultural expressions other than their own. We agree that it should be a general cultural fund. And there has been little or no criticism of past allocation practices. And – as Trond Giske says – the good thing is that the fund will now receive more money, there will be more money for culture. Now get together a government that everyone feels is representative, and where everyone feels at home and accepted! It's the most important government council can do. I believe that with the right of adjustment and the size of the board, which, as Trond Giske also says, is not locked – it would have to be extended for my part, but there are limits to how large such a board can be and at the same time be manageable – there is now an opportunity to do something and to put in place the conflicts and suspicion that have been. I think IdaLou Larsen says well in his summary of the meeting that the Music Society had: ‘This does not mean that popular musicians should not sit on the board of funds. Do not delete. In fact, it is very likely that from their point of view, they will be able to enrich the Governing Board’s assessments with important, useful and healthy views.’;» And she goes on to say, ‘However, the impression is that the contradictions are deep and that the dispute is far from settled. The solution may just be the new governance model of the politicians: when the old enemies sit together in a government and have to act responsibly and thoughtfully, at least the wisest thing they can do is bury the battle quest.’ I think we should all do that. We must wish the fund happiness for further – and we must work for culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e853	In 2000, the fund law and copyright were amended in the context of the implementation of an EU directive that strengthened the rights of performers and record producers. The Fund for Performing Artists was then converted into a pure cultural fund. From the Fund for Performing Artists was created in 1956, it has been legislatedly added to the department to establish the closer rules of the board. It has been decided by regulation that two members of the board shall represent the performers, one member shall represent the producer side, and one member shall be appointed on a free basis. There has been no right to set up an organisation, but there is no right to make proposals for the assembly. The Family, Culture and Administrative Committee has expressed its opinion on the management of the Fund, first by lawmaking in the spring of 2001 and later in the context of the budgetary position. The Committee has not given leadership in favour of a specific number when it concerns the extension of the board. In the debate on the amendment of the law, the late Minister of Culture Ellen Horn informed that she wanted to expand the board with a practicing artist. There were no comments on this. When a draft new proposal was being heard last autumn, a large majority of the hearing authorities supported the proposal from the Ministry to extend the board by one member. Proposals have now been made to extend the Board of Directors by another member. For me, it is important to take care of the governance of the fund. And because this is so close to what's already agreed, I don't mind doing this change, even though I think the change is completely unnecessary. The Board of Funds has had four members all since its establishment in 1957, and an extension now, with one member, should be sufficient. In the budget configuration, the Committee stated its plurality that it was also important that the 'interests of musicians are strengthened by the right to vote of their respective organisations'. For me, it has been important to give all the organisations equal opportunities. Music organisations, like the other organisations, have been able to make proposals for membership, but still have the final word in the ministry. This is the way organizations act in a way that gives the ministry the freedom to think whole-heartedly about the composition of the board. Now I just have to note that a number in my committee are going to be bound to choose from among those that have been proposed. However, I am pleased that the majority in the Committee has now made it clear that they believe the right to vote should apply to all relevant organisations. The fund was established in 1956. The initiative came from the Norwegian Musicians' Association. The scheme was introduced because at that time it was difficult to apply an individual fee for performers. The Fund scheme has been continued even if the perpetrators have now received individual rights under the copyright system. She has been continued because the scheme has an important cultural policy function, including: by providing support for innovative and less commercial measures. I think the board of the fund should reflect that the fund is a cultural policy arrangement. When the proposal on changes to the fund law was discussed in Stortinget, the working party members of the committee went against Stortinget to give leadership on the extension. In the configuration, these representatives oppose the submission by the Committee of any guidance concerning the representation of the board in a fund financed by a public levy. I cannot see that the representative of the Labour Party who had the word here today explained the change that has occurred in the Labour Party since the previous setting, because the Labour Party has turned in opposition. I can't see that the whole reversal is based on professional reasons. This has created a lot of control and trouble, has been said by the pulpit today. I'm not going to interfere with why this has created a lot of trouble and control, but I've noticed that those who have had the word are blaming the state council for not following up a consensus position from Stortinget. The assessment of the word «substantial» is quite interesting here. An increase in a representative of a large government of 15 or 20 is not significant, but it is a significant increase in a government that previously counted two-three. It's actually a pretty substantial increase in my comprehension. And if we had said an increase of two, that's to four, it would have been a doubling. If this option is checked, the Size option could be applied. It has also been said that I can only increase the number of new representatives on the board. But it is important that this selection is composed in such a way that as much of the resources as possible goes back to the artists, and that we do not red tape the work too much. So I don't want to go in there to mention even more than that Size says I'll mention. In fact, I have always used the Storing's remarks – despite the fact that some representatives say I haven't – as I have understood them, and as I have defined the word «essential». In translating these notes into rules, I have focused on creating good, flexible rules that can be followed in practice. I have also noticed that the majority in the committee believe that it is not necessary to send the draft to the hearing. I agree with that, because when the instructions are there, it is not necessary to send them out on a so-called hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e889	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e892	There must be something wrong in the posts of the Council of State. She said that she sent out the instructions at the hearing, and that there were no objections to the number. Yes, it did. The objections actually came from this room here, which is her employer on political issues and overall body. In the budget debate on 14 December, Mr Woldseth of the Progress Party said: ‘My question to the Council of State therefore becomes: Will the Council of State ensure that the majority opinion of the Committee is followed and that the Norwegian Association of Artists is given the right to vote?’ So the Council of State says, ‘Of course, the answer to the question is yes.’ But in her actions was the answer: seafaringly no. In my article in the same debate, I say the following: ‘My final point is the Fund for Performing Artists. A hearing opinion has been issued from the Ministry to extend the exerciserepresentation with one representative. We think that's too weak. That is why we have received a comment saying that it must be ‘extended materially’. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken note of the fact that organisations should have the right to set up." It might have been a little unwise to say by me at the time, but we expect the result to be a significant extension. We didn't want to go into a specific instruction, but we expect the Council of State to take those signals. The Council of State then spoke later in the debate without any reservations about what was said, either in the comments or in the post. My question is, can we take the words of the Council of State for good fish now? We obviously could not do that in the budget debate on 14 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e916	Yes, I've been following the settings from Stortinget. Of course, I had a dialogue with the government party in relation to their understanding of the comments and the decision that was taken, in what I sent out on the hearing, and which I have followed up. Then I have realized that it has not been enough for the majority – SV, the Progress Party and the Labour Party. So I have to follow it up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e924	We hear that the Council of State claims that the organisations have had the right to vote and that they have been able to bring their candidates. But not all organisations have received this enquiry and questions about candidates for the Board of Directors of the Fund for Performing Artists. The Council of State believes that not all organisations, such as Norwegian Association of Artists, is it relevant to sit on the Board of Directors of the Fund for Performing Artists? Or is it forgotten that these organisations have not received the contact that the organisations that the Council of State considers relevant for sitting on the board have received?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e929	When the Norwegian Artist Union is now established, it is clear that it is quite natural that they are also taken into consideration when it comes to who is to sit on the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e934	One of the points in my first post was that through the treatment of the case we have seen that there is a lot of suspicion and misunderstanding between different artist environments. It must be our task to contribute to the building of that suspicion and fear. It will strengthen an overall cultural life. One way we can achieve this is to get the different parties to meet, to discuss, to get to know each other, to see that there are no hidden motives and hidden agendas behind the different organisations' positions, but that they actually have as common goals to strengthen the overall cultural life of Norway. On the one hand, we have artists who are afraid of the fund, because you fear that a reduction in the fund will take away their livelihood. They're totally dependent on the fund, and they're afraid that if there's more to share with, there'll be less money for them. On the other hand, we have groups of artists who are also legitimate applicants for the fund, but who feel that they have always been excluded from the board of directors of the fund and have not felt like legitimate actors. I believe it would be essential to ensure that the various parties meet on the board of directors of the fund, that the different positions can be met, and that one can find out that one actually has common interests. This means, for example: that there is also a need for popular artists to have a place in such organs. My question to the Council of State is: Will she reach when she is to appoint a board according to the guidelines of the Storting, ensure that it reaches the maximum possible width, so that we can achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e954	Yes, of course, we should make sure that the board gets the maximum possible width – it should just be missing. What amazes me in this discussion is: Why in all the world does Trond Gish not ensure that former workers' party councils have chosen people from these organizations to sit in this selection? If it's been so crazy, one can only imagine how many years the Labour Party has had the government power and has actually handpicked the people in these regimes for all these years. There has never been any involvement from Trond Giske in this matter in the years that have passed. But now all of a sudden he gets engaged. It actually surprises me pretty much. I can promise we'll create width. Of course, I can't tell you today who I'm going to pick out. I do not even have an overview of the names currently entered. But those who have dealt with this work before have been representing the Labour Party for very many years. If Trond Giske is not happy with what has happened historically, I thought he should take a specifier in his own row.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e963	President, line up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e970	The representative Trond Giske has had two lines and has no occasion for any more. Several have not asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e977	It's not so important how to get the word, just to say what's on your heart. It is quite obviously wrong when the Council of State says that the Workers' Party has not had an involvement in this matter before. On the contrary, it has been the Workers' Party that has been a driving force for better representation of the performers to be taken into consideration, and that groups that have traditionally not had that place in our cultural policy, namely the popular artists, rock musicians and others, will also have such a place. We are the ones who have been in charge of this matter all along. As for my personal commitment – just to clarify it as well – I was actually the Council of State on the question of the Fund for Performing Artists and the introduction of compensation rights for the artists. I had meetings and consultations with the various organisations, including the popular artists, and came up with a result that actually brought together the different organisations, and made sure that everyone was well satisfied with the results, unlike what has been the case in dealing with this matter with the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e986	I had not intended to do so much more out of this matter. I will not go into this duel between the Council of State and the representative Giske. But the representative Giske said something that I do not think can be quite contradictory, and that is that what has happened through the follow-up to the budget decision is a breach of the budget agreement. I can't admit it. There has been a discussion about what should be included in the term ‘essential’. The council has expressed what she thinks about it and how she has understood this concept. This was not further elaborated in the budget negotiations or the discussions we had, other than verbally. And what's going on in verbal communication isn't that easy to look after in retrospect. I remember that this was affected, and personally I just have to state that I had no strong opinion on whether there should be three or four executive representatives. I think of it as a purely pragmatic question. That this was also aired, I can confirm, but it was not at all clear what it meant in concrete terms. And that's precisely because the law says that this is the responsibility of the Council of State and the Department. It is the law that regulates this, and not a budget agreement in Stortinget. We wanted to respect that, and that's why they said nothing more. That is why it is far beyond the line of the representative Giske to claim that this was a breach of the budgetary agreement. So to the representative Lund Bergo, who asks why the government parties can't support what applies specifically to paragraph 2 of this proposal. I will admit to the representative, Lund Bergo, that as it now appears, this is not a big problem. We don't see either term one or term two as a serious problem in principle. For us, it is natural to allow the ministry, as the law says, to continue to have authority to regulate this and to decide how many to sit on the board and from which organisations to obtain proposals for members. And with what has happened now, I'm pretty sure that both the Council of State and the Department are keeping their heads cold and know where to turn. I do not think it is necessary for us to contribute to the dictates of the ministry in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e995	I would like to stress that when it comes to interpreting the word «essential» and how one should follow up the decision in the plural setting, I also have to the extent to which the Labour Party has referred to this matter earlier. Of course, I have also had conversations with the government party here at Stortinget. It's the one. The second is that I absolutely do not doubt Giske's commitment to both the one and the other music group. But I notice that the exposure has not led to these groups being represented in the board before. That's what I'm wondering, and that's what I'm so bold to point out here from the pulpit, when this thing has now got the dimensions that she absolutely doesn't have to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1002	It's incredibly interesting to hear from the representative Lånker that you can't trust what people say, but that you actually have to have things in writing to make it an agreement. And that the representative Lånker does not remember a budgetary agreement they concluded with the Workers' Party is also quite striking when this is the background for a unanimous remark in the Committee. Initially, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party had a comment, and it was rewritten and adapted, and it became a unanimous comitology. Then I think it is incredibly striking that the representative Lånker does not remember it. In terms of substance and not: several times in the debate was clarified what was essential, and what was the basis for this. Then I think it's strange that you should enter and interpret in this way as the Council of State does.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1015	It surprises me a little bit that the representative Woldseth from the Progress Party is trying to clarify what happened between the government parties and the Workers' Party in conversations where the representative concerned was not present at all. I didn't say I didn't remember. I remember it very well. I also said to me that it was as far as possible with four representatives, I agree – three or four. But for us, it's important to make it clear that it's the Department and the Council of State that evaluate it. There may have been differences of opinion about what was appropriate, and – and I stand by that, it has nothing to do with remembering or not doing – it was not clarified or elaborated in any way that there were four representatives. If it were, we would have written it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1039	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1048	The Financial Committee has examined Document No. 8:34, proposal to exempt Norwegian national broadcasting from VAT. The background to the proposal is that the NRK is currently exempted from the general VAT obligation covering broadcasters. This means that NRK’s competitors are subject to the general VAT legislation and thus have the right to deduct input tax. VAT on purchased programmes means that for NRK there is a significant difference between self-production and the purchase of programmes. A zero rate or scheme operating in the same direction as a zero rate if licence income and other conditions are maintained will improve the economy of the NRK. Document No 8:34 suggests giving the NRK a zero rate. We have in the discussion of Document No. The 8-proposal also assessed other changes to the VAT rules that would increase the NRK’s ability to compete with parts of the business and that could enhance software production outside the NRK. There have been two open hearings in the case. Furthermore, there is a range of schemes relating to public broadcasting channels in several European countries. Government parties believe it is important to strengthen the NRK as a non-commercial public broadcaster, with good quality and a wide range of programmes for the whole population. The NRK must be given an increased level of income that is stable over time. For the parties to the Government there have been three important aspects in this case: Firstly, NRK's ability to purchase externally produced films or programmes. We believe that it is desirable to remove the price barrier between self-production and purchased programmes.Furthermore, it is desirable that the NRC should be able to rationalise and streamline its own operations through competitive outsourcing. In order for this to be profitable, the VAT barrier must be removed. Finally, reference is made to the presentation by the Council of Culture on 28 February to improve the economic situation of the NRC, where she said: ‘There is a clear willingness in the Government to provide the NRC with a stable and good economic environment. As I see it, we have three options: to increase the revenue of the NRK directly through an increase in the broadcasting fee, to reduce the costs of the NRK through changes in the charging system, or to give extraordinary concessions to the NRK over the state budget.’ The parties to the Government believe that it is positive that the economic situation of the NRC can be strengthened at the same time as removing the price barrier between self-production and today’s purchased programmes. This could strengthen the independent production of Norwegian programmes. We believe that it is most appropriate that this be done either through a VAT refund scheme for example. programme production, or by including NRK in the VAT system. Our conclusion is that we are in favour of a change that removes the price barrier and opens up the possibility of strengthening the NRK's economy. I want to refer to the setting, where we go in for: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the 2003 draft budget, to incorporate a mechanism to remove the price barrier between self-production and external production, either by means of a reimbursement scheme or by introducing NRK into the VAT system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1090	The NRK is as a media enterprise in a special position. As a general broadcaster, the institution has a task that goes beyond that of all other Norwegian media. The NRK has a separate commitment to its listeners and viewers to fulfil a role of cultural policy and also of our people's rule, where the requirement of breadth is stronger than for any other media. The second thing that distinguishes the NRK from other Norwegian media companies is that the NRK’s revenues are determined politically in this room, where commitments have also been made. From time to time, we experience here in the hall that it may also be difficult to control the desire to go even more detailed to work in the management of this special institution. It is against this background that the Workers' Party considers it important that, as far as possible in a policy-driven system, the economy of the NRK is determined in such a way as to provide the institution with stability and long-term sustainability at its level of income. This is what will give the board and the administration the best basis for an operation that can meet both the requirements we set for a public broadcaster and will provide the basis for the NRC to follow up on developments, technological, media and cultural policy. Because although the NRC is not economically dependent on its viewer and listener figures, a public broadcaster with fewer and fewer viewers and listeners will not be able to fulfil its media policy and cultural policy tasks. The NRK should, as also pointed out by the rapporteur, have a stable revenue base which allows for the long-termity of the operational base, development and planning. This does not mean, of course, that the NRK should be protected against the need for changes and the requirement to house strictly with its resources. The approach demonstrates a political consensus that the NRC’s economic foundation is not sufficient today to enable the institution to move into digital technology while maintaining its obligations as a public broadcaster. That consensus embraces all parties in this room, except the Party of Advancement. There is also a broad consensus that the economy of the NRC should be given a boost through other interventions than a significant increase in the broadcasting charge. That is gratifying, because such a solution would undermine the possibilities of natural and normal income growth in the years to come. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that the simplest and most tidy approach would be to allow the NRK to benefit from the value added tax system, but with a zero rate scheme, so that the licence is not subject to VAT. It will provide a necessary level of revenue and stability for this level in the years to come. If this is the solution, the institution may plan its investments and operations accordingly, without being too closely linked to changing political attitudes in this room. A good alternative would be a VAT compensation scheme that would have a similar effect on the economy of the NRK. This scheme will also remove, as pointed out by the rapporteur, the current barriers to the purchase of services from outside, because although the NRK now appears to have strengthened its revenue base, neither will it or will it provide any protection against continued efficiency and renewal. There is an obstacle in this work that the use of own employees is 24 pst. cheaper than purchases of services from others. This also has a cultural policy dimension. By removing this customs barrier, the NRK, through the purchase of programme productions, can contribute to the strengthening of Norwegian production environments in film and television. The proposals of the parties to the Government seem to restrict the refund of VAT or the VAT system to programme production. However, it may not be appropriate to remove the price barrier on the purchase of services for the core business, so it should still be cheaper to provide pure support services with its own employees rather than external use. However, on the part of the Labour Party, we will support this subsidiaryly, as it is a better solution than no solution. The Progress Party also supports such a solution in a subsidiary way. But when we look at the party's comments, it's quite clear that this party is not really behind the desire to strengthen the NRK's economy. When designing the proposal to come back to Stortinget in the next year’s state budget, the Government will also have to consider which support players it wants to use to ensure what the government parties are clearly behind in the vote, namely a clear willingness to provide the NRK with stable and good economic conditions. I will end by mentioning the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1109	Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1112	In Document No: 8:34 it is proposed to exempt NRK from VAT through a zero rate. The background is that the NRK has been behind it for several years with deficits and a weakened economy. The NRC Board has now taken responsibility for the economy of the company and has decided to implement a number of savings measures. Savings measures are rarely popular, and for the NRK, the interest in the transition has been high both among politicians and the public. The reason for this interest is the important role played by the NRK as a leading Norwegian TV channel, as a credible source of news and information and as a defender of important values such as freedom of expression and democracy, cultural and linguistic diversity. Document No 8:34 has been promoted to improve the economic environment of the NRC. The proposal means a tax subsidy on the activity of about 200 million. kr. The proposers claim that, in other words, all media companies other than the NRK have a zero VAT rate scheme and that therefore the NRK suffers from discrimination against competitors. This description of the NRK tax regime is misleading. The correct thing is that the NRK is in a favourable situation with respect to the VAT system. NRK's licence income is not subject to VAT. On the other hand, commercial broadcasters are normally subject to VAT and must calculate VAT on all revenues. In addition, if the NRK is granted full deduction of VAT on expenditure, this will enhance the tax advantage that the NRK has in relation to its competitors. Unfavourable treatment of NRKs cannot justify a VAT subsidy on NRKs alone. With regard to the economic situation of the NRK, reference is made to the Minister of Culture’s presentation to the Stortinget on 28 February 2002. There it was pointed out that there is a clear will in the Government to provide the NRC with stable and good economic conditions. Three options were outlined: to increase revenue through an increase in broadcasting charges, to reduce costs through changes in the charging system or through exceptional budgetary appropriations. This implies that the Government is working on the NRK framework conditions. The amount of tax subsidies proposed in Document No 8:34, is so big that the proposal directly interferes with the framework conditions of the NRK. This is, in my opinion, at home in the treatment of the state budget. In Document No: 8:34 the distortion of competition between internal and external production is also addressed as a result of the exclusion of the NRK from the VAT system. As with other activities outside the VAT system, there is a significant price barrier to external purchases. These are distortions of competition which the cooperative parties in general wish to eliminate. The Government has reduced a sample, the Rattsø Committee, which is to assess solutions that ensure equality between public self-production and external purchases of services. The NRC, for its part, has a significant need to rapidly transform and streamline its activities. The price barrier is a barrier to conversion. Therefore, the cooperation parties are prepared to find good solutions that will rapidly remove the price barrier for the NRK. The proposal of the Parties implies that the Government is asked, by the latest in the 2003 draft budget, to incorporate a mechanism that removes the price barrier between self-production and external production. This can be done in a number of ways that, in isolation, may have different effects on the economy of the NRK — theoretically both positive and negative. Thus, the proposal does not lead to the overall economic framework for the NRC. It is gratifying that the Progress Party has announced its subsidiary support for this proposal, thereby ensuring a majority. This is a good news for NRK's conversion work. The NRK needs good and stable framework conditions, and this side of the case will receive a comprehensive treatment, as outlined by the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1135	In SV we are pleased that the Stortinget today takes a decision that will strengthen the NRK's economy, because that is what is the reality of this. We would have liked the Stortinget to go further, but we are nevertheless satisfied that a majority – in fact all the parties in the Stortinget with subsidiary support – wants to give the NRC better financial opportunities. This is important because the NRK is in a special position. The NRK is already in competition with others, but at the same time it imposes many obligations on the NRK that are important for a small cultural nation. This is in language, it's in special programs, and there's a lot of other things that make the NRK in a special position. In addition, the NRK is facing major challenges related to digitisation, but also related to regional offices and to competition in general. The decision that the Stortinget will take later today will mean a significant strengthening. I noticed that the previous speaker from one of the government parties tried to minimize this, and I was not particularly pleased about that. That is why I hope that the rapporteur's articles form the basis for the further work of the Government. I am also pleased that the government parties here at Stortinget have defeated their own government. The government was initially strongly opposed to what Stortinget is now doing, and I am pleased that the government parties here see that the NRK is in a different position than the government has seen. What this means is that the government has to come back with a proposal at least in the order of 100 million. kr related to tax relief for the NRK. If this had been the case, it would have been possible to accept the proposal which, among other things, SV and the Working Party were behind, it had a relief of 170 million. However, both the majority in favour of this, and the intentions contained in the remark, would suggest that at least there should be a strengthening relative to approx. One hundred million. kr. I notice that the government has spent a lot of time arguing that what the Storting is doing today is not possible. I also notice that the government has had to go back to most of what it has written to the committee. Initially, this matter was handled very unwisely by the Government by the fact that a government council that was obviously incapacitated had a hand in it. This has been recently cleaned up. Nevertheless, we see that after the new Council of State came into place, much of what was written had to be withdrawn. What has been argued about is that this is not legal in relation to the EEA Agreement. At the same time, we see that many of the countries around us that are also obliged by the same agency actually have different arrangements that provide the public broadcasting channel, that is, the non-commercial state channel, opportunities that other commercial channels do not have. We see this in England, where we have a compensation scheme for VAT, and we see it in Finland, where YLE – the state-supporting channel – has 8 pst. VAT on licences, while retaining the full right to deduct input VAT. We also see that our neighbouring country Sweden now wants to put in place such a system, and letters have been written to the European Commission with the wish to get a system that goes in such a direction. The reason for this, of course, is obvious. Public broadcasters across Europe face the same challenge, namely that they have their own commitment by having their own non-commercial idea while competing with commercial channels. I am pleased that the NRK is now getting better financial opportunities, but I have to say that it is with great amazement I notice the way the government has argued, which was obviously wrong. If you assume that the Storting has in principle the possibility to strengthen the NRK's license as much as possible without this being distorting competition, while not having the opportunity to provide a tax relief because this is distorting competition, then everyone will see that this is obviously illogical. It is illogical if it was competition that was essential. Norway is not obliged to comply with the Sixth EU Tax Directive. So it took many letters from the Government before the Government finally had to admit that this was correct. The only thing that could conflict with EEA law is the competition rules, and so the competition rules are this paradox that I recently presented to the Stortinget. We're glad that the Stortinge is now moving towards what we want, to give the NRK a better financial opportunity to make good programs. That's the starting point for our Document No. Eight proposals. We want the NRK to have the opportunity to make good programs, and that requires money. Quality costs, and the only way the NRC can manage to maintain a good programme profile with the commitments the Stortinger imposes on the institution is to have money. Increasing the license is an option, but it's limited to how much you can increase it. Today, the licence is about the size of the price of an annual subscription for the Evening Post and should lie around it. There is a pain limit on how much the license can be increased. That is why the approach proposed by SV to the Stortinget, and to which Stortinget partly agrees, is a good move to strengthen the NRK. It's also been the starting point for SV's involvement. We would have liked to go further, but, like the Workers' Party, we are providing subsidiary support for the proposal promoted by the government parties in the UK. We are pleased that the government parties in Stortinget have defeated their own government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1158	The NRK is currently exempt from the general VAT obligation covering broadcasters. This means that they do not calculate the fee on their sale, in this case the broadcasting fee, but also that they do not get deducted from the in-depth fee. All NRK competitors are exempt from the duty on production and editorial content, but are also fully entitled to deduct the input tax. The main reason for keeping the NRK out of the VAT system was that it would not charge the broadcasting fee. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. However, the consequence is that a large part of NRK’s support services, production equipment and programme production are effectively protected from external competition, because external purchases involve a surcharge of 24 pst. The NRK shall not be deducted. This hampers the necessary rationalisation and makes the outsourcing of support services and programme production unprofitable. This is the same problem both for municipalities and municipalities in relation to putting out parts of their business and there is a major problem in public activities in general. The Progress Party believes that this is unfortunate, both for the NRK itself, which has a strenuous economy and even wants to rationalise its operations, and not least for the viewers, who finance the operation of the NRK. The proposal to include NRK into the VAT system at zero broadcasting charge would allow NRK to purchase services externally without a VAT barrier. At the same time, however, it will provide the NRC with considerable resources. We believe that the NRK should be able to perform its tasks within the current economic framework if opportunities are given to streamline and rationalise operations through competitive outsourcing. So the claim that the Progress Party does not want the NRK to be able to strengthen its economy is not correct. The Party of Progress has a different starting point and believes that the NRK, through the necessary reorganisation and efficiency, which they are just given the opportunity to remove the VAT barrier, will be able to do just that. So the Progress Party wants to integrate the NRK into the VAT system at zero rate for the licence revenue, but we believe that such subsidisation through the VAT system should not be due to the NRK and thus reduce the need for conversion and rationalisation, but that the money should benefit the licensee by a corresponding reduction in the licence fee of an estimated DKK 100 per year. I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party, which has been put forward in the vote. Should this proposal against all presumption fall, the Progress Party will provide subsidiary support for the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Left and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1171	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1174	NRK is our most important cultural institution. The size that owns has a great responsibility for reaching our high level of ambition for the NRK. Then, of course, the economic resources and financing of the operations of the NRC and the investment opportunities are the main challenges. An increase in the licence beyond what is done each year during budget management is not the way to go. I don't think that's going to be accepted by the licensors either. The NRK as the main cultural operator and the institution to carry out the obligations of general broadcasting must be ensured an increased level of revenue that will be stable over time. This will allow both operations and investments to be planned in a defensive way over the years to come. This was the reason why the Senterpartie proposed to exempt the NRK from VAT during its budget management in the fall. Since the proposal was not intended to have a majority, it was withdrawn, as Storting's Rules of Procedure had not allowed this to be re-examined before the autumn of 2002 if it had been downgraded. The VAT exemption for the NRK would have improved the NRK’s economic situation by nearly 200 million. kr. At the same time, it would have created a similarity between the Norwegian competitors of the NRK and the NRK. But the management of Document No. The 8 proposal considers that there is a broad political will to strengthen the economic position of the NRC. It's positive, and it emphasizes that the NRK has a strong position. In particular, the Senterpartiet wishes to implement a VAT refund scheme for NRK’s operations which is currently not covered by the VAT system or to include NRK in the VAT system in a way that has the same effect on the NRK’s economy. As I said, this had given an economic boost of nearly 200 million. kr. This does not get any plurality, therefore the Center Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Coastal Party. I would like to stress that it is positive that the entire Storting through voting will strengthen the NRK's economy. It underlines the role of the NRK as an advertisement-free licence-funded public broadcaster, and hopes that the NRK will continue to be a quality provider, that the development and maintenance of the district offices could continue, that a cultural institution that the Broadcasting Orchestra could survive and that the development of the digital ground network could begin. This will also ensure almost all full access to NRK2, which is important for the Centre Party. As I said, the central party will subsidize the vote, and we are looking forward to what the government will present in connection with the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1189	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1193	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has explained in an excellent way what is Right's view in this matter. But as a complement to this, I want to underline an important cultural policy perspective that is in force and that may not have been so focused, namely the role of the NRK in the development of a national film and TV environment. The technological developments we are facing are going to face major cultural policy challenges in relation to the need we have to have a large production of image-based media material, in short what we are talking about that goes online content. The environment that we will need in the future in this area will emerge from the environment we currently have in film and TV, and it will be incredibly important that we in the future manage to strengthen the production environment, which is very little in Norway. In the future, we're going to have to have a large volume and a high quality if we're going to have a cultural policy, so we're going to have a sphere on the Internet that's Norwegian-produced, a sphere that Norwegian consumers will feel at home. This is an argument the NRK itself has raised on some occasions, and it is clear that a giant such as the NRK could be an exciting engine in the national picture in terms of the development of these professional environments. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of it, because I think we will come back to it on later occasions as well. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that if we come to good arrangements where the price barrier is being built, yes, then we will follow the NRK in the future and make sure that they really use the opportunities provided here, and that the NRK is conscious of its responsibility as the deciduous largest and heaviest engine in the development of this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1202	I take the floor for the second time because I record that the Council of State is in the Chamber, but that she has not taken the floor in this debate. And when you listen to two of the posts from the government fraction, they're essentially different in content. The representative of the Christian People's Party, who is the Advocate-General, emphasises the positive potential of the NRK in this respect, while the Right's representatives almost minimize this and later as if it would not have an economic significance for the NRK, almost that this is a system of minor importance that the Government is given an authority to move away in some way. The proposal for a decision which will be adopted later today has therefore opened up two possibilities. The proposal for a decision states that ‘establishing a mechanism to remove the price barrier between self-production and external production, either by means of a reimbursement scheme or by introducing NRK into the VAT system’. Both of these options are, of course, present after this decision. At the same time, it would have been more than interesting for the Storting to know what the Government actually thinks, and what the council thinks about this, especially given that the contributions from the government parties here in the hall have been very different in content. It would also be interesting to get an assessment of this precisely because the government parties in the Storting are of a completely different opinion than the Government. The government has therefore, throughout this process of the Financial Committee, tried to do everything possible to ensure that the Storting should not make the decisions that the Stortinget is now fortunately actually making, and therefore it would also be interesting if the Council of State could give its opinion on the matter from this interlocutor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1209	The Council of State has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1212	In response to the strong request, I will then clarify what the Government believes about the matter. Firstly, I want to say one thing: I think the representative of Djupedal's description of both what has been in the correspondence, and of the government's attitude is somewhat flawed. He forgets to mention the important second element in this matter, namely that the Minister of Culture has made a statement and actually explained what we want to do with the government's economy. The question I as the Council of State have had a relationship with here is how we might do it, and how we would fit this into a charging system. The question of strengthening the NRK's economy has been answered by the Government through the Minister of Culture's presentation, where she has clearly said that the Government intends to do so. But we haven't chosen the means, so as to follow up the decision taken by the Storting today, we're going to seriously investigate the options, go through what's most appropriate, and then we're going to evaluate it in relation to the budget as to how much the NRK's strengthening will be in the future. But I would like to remind you that there are two different issues here: one is the economy of the NRK, and the other is the question of creating a neutral charging system in relation to their own production. We have said that it is okay that we should go through and create a neutral system in relation to our own production. There is something the government is otherwise generally concerned about. This has meant that we have reduced the Rattsø Committee, as in other cases. will look at this in relation to the local government sector, but which will have an extended responsibility for this in terms of self-production in relation to government and business. We see that after the introduction of VAT on services, there is an extensive pressure on various agencies to take back activities that have been outsourced in the past, because now you get higher costs because of this barrier. This means that the introduction of VAT on services in general means that we need to have a review of the issue of what barriers we have to place things on the market or to have things on our own production. So to the attempt to say that there is a great division between the government parties and the government. So the government has given one signal about the strengthening of the NRK's economy, and it's given by the Minister of Culture within her remit. What we've been dealing with in relation to the financial committee are the tax-related issues. The underlying here is that the government has already told the Storting that we want a strengthening of the NRK's economy. Of course, how large it will be is an assessment that the government has to take into account many other areas where you want to have a strengthened economy. Compared to the technology here, it is important that we ensure that we make the best possible system to meet both the needs of the cultural policy issue related to self-production and the purchase of services from elsewhere. But in that respect, I must draw attention to, as I also said in the open hearing of the Financial Committee, that here we need to have a neutral system. If we were to choose a compensation system, for example: As the BBC has, only in relation to self-production and Norwegian-produced programmes, we know that we would probably get into a situation where this would have led us into a state aid problem. Therefore, we need to have a neutral system in relation to different types of purchases of services. But we're working on different parts of the theme. We're going to follow up on what's going to be the Storting decision today, and we're going back so that the Storting gets an opportunity to see the relationship between the strengthening of the NRK's economy and the changes we're making in the charging system. But I want to distance myself from the interpretation of how these proposals are to be interpreted. I assume that no special interpretation has been included here. I don't see that the amount is 100 million. kr, as Djupedal among others has mentioned at some point the extent of any reinforcement or the design of such a system. We are very close to signaling the amount of this reinforcement, because it is both a question of how we make things work, and, of course, a question of how strongly we believe that the NRK economy will be strengthened in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1226	I have two questions for the Council of State. I must first say that on the part of the Progress Party, we are quite satisfied with the work undertaken by the Council of State in this matter. She has taken good care of the matter and handled it well in relation to the committee. In the vote, however, the Progress Party has a proposal such as: assumes that the NRK may benefit from a change in the VAT system through a reduction in the licence for users. Is there a problem that the Government will assess at all as they address a change in the VAT system for the NRK? The second question is not related to the substance of the matter itself, but to much of the process around it, namely the conflict of viability, which has marked a great deal of the Committee's consideration of this matter. A letter to the Committee of 8 February from the Prime Minister makes it clear that the Council of State of Solberg will be the Council of State in matters where the Council of State of Foss will be involved in this context. Does the Government now have a clear relationship with this issue, so that we do not risk more difficult demarcation areas related to future viability? Is it now that the Government has prepared this in other similar matters for the future, so that we do not risk getting into this mess in time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1237	Yes, the Government has a clear relationship with the appointment of signatories in the Council of State as the Set State Council for all matters relating to NRK/TV 2 issues in the years ahead as long as this government sits or does not choose to appoint a different Set State Council, or the Minister of Finance would have a different privacy from what he has today – which has been the background to it. The problem with the problems of stability is that people's situation can change. This means that there may well be new issues for some government councils, a little dependent on, for example: job changes related to the person you might be married to, cohabiting with, or living in partnership with. That's life. The world is changing, outside this house in particular – perhaps more than in here. I can't promise that we won't get up in a border country where we haven't thought through all the problems of stability, but we're working hard to make sure we don't get into those situations. So the question of reducing VAT. If you select a system where we, for example, If we introduce full deduction rights into the VAT system, it will, of course, be a piece of time, because we have said that we will assess the amount of potential strengthening in the NRC's economy. If we were to choose a model where there's going to be a complete introduction into the VAT system of the NRK, of course, it's not just going to be adding 24 pst. VAT on top and expand it. That's one of the issues we're considering, because we're assessing both the economy and the system in different areas. But there are some of the models that make this an irrelevant question. If you, for example, choosing a compensation model, one will be able to dimension the compensation question in relation to how much you want to strengthen the NRK economy. I think it's important to say that there are two themes. There is full freedom of choice in terms of how strongly you will go into both issues if you go into a compensation scheme. All you have to do is make sure it's neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1244	Let me first correct the Council of State on the following: After SV had submitted its proposal in Stortinget, the Council of Cultural States asked to come to Stortinget with a statement on the NRK. We appreciated that. But it was after our proposal was dealt with in Stortinget, and that's where these signals of strengthening the NRK's economy came. I think what the Council of State has been doing is an explanation of what the decision says. You try to say here that in a way you stand completely free, that you have freedom of choice as to how this decision is to be understood, and that makes me very worried. So the point of progress here is in a line, so it's downgraded. The proposals of the Progress Party shall be limited to the support of the Advance Party. That means that a corresponding cut in the license does not have the consent of the Storting. I hope the Council of State remembers that. So what the government is promoting is that one wants to “remove the price barrier between self-production and external production, either by means of a reimbursement scheme” – a reimbursement scheme will therefore mean 24 pst. cut, to remove the price barrier between self-production and external production; that means that the price barrier per. Today, VAT is per person. date is 24 pst. – ‘or by introducing NRK into the VAT system’. The introduction of NRK into the VAT system means that NRK as an institution will receive 24 pst. deduction of input VAT. So, of course, it's a question of whether you can put VAT on the license. This will be possible when the NRK is introduced into the VAT system. The value added tax coating of the licence is the way you do it in Finland. YLE has 8 pst. VAT but full deduction. I want to warn the Council of State not to put VAT on the licence. The licence depends on general approval and should not be alarmingly high. But I must nevertheless be allowed to challenge the state council again. This defamation and the explanation that the Government is in principle free, almost not to strengthen the economy of the NRK, as it will be adopted later today, I must strongly warn the Council of State against persecuting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1257	I listened a long time to hear where Øystein Djupedal and I really said things that were going to contradict each other. I said quite clearly that the government's commitment to strengthen the NRK is given in this hall by the Minister of Culture in her presentation. So it's a theme that we've given a commitment to. The question of the extent of the reinforcement and the design of a system within the framework of the decision we are about to take today, comes back to the Government in the ordinary reading of the budget. If what is adopted here today would amount to 100 million. In that case, those who decide must go up here and tell them that that's actually what's behind it. I don't understand that the decision that's here suggests that it's going to be 100 million. kr, as the representative of Øystein Djupedal mentioned. But we are going to follow seriously both the commitment given by the Minister of Culture on behalf of the Government in this Chamber and the decision taken on how we develop a system. And if we are to introduce NRK into the VAT system, VAT on the licence will also be a topic that will have been assessed. In my opinion, that will be quite natural. If they are not introduced into the VAT system, VAT is VATed on outgoing services and deductions on incoming expenditure. I think that would be a natural assessment, without saying that's where we're going to come, because we're going to do a job to remove this price barrier. So the size of this, we're going to get back to. And then the Storting will also have the full opportunity to decide on the different choices in the ordinary budgetary procedure, and whether or not the price tag can be seen in the context of a number of other cultural initiatives, as many in the UK have said, is very important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1264	The Council of State said in its statement that she considered that the representative of Djupedal was exaggerating the scepticism that lay in the exchange of letters with the Committee in relation to the Government's willingness to contribute to the adoption of this proposal. I believe that there was considerable scepticism, particularly in the exchange of letters related to EU legislation, and nothing particularly has been affected here today. And as the Minister of Culture said in his statement that the Government assessed four alternatives, licence increase, zero VAT for NRK, full VAT and a VAT refund scheme, I assume that that issue is so clear that there is no problem in the follow-up to the decision made later today. When the Council of State in its reply here also points to the fact that VAT on licences is one of the alternatives to be considered, I don't think it will be easy to get the Workers' Party's support for such a decision, which will mean a significant leap in the license, and which will also deprive the possibility of a necessary price adjustment in the future, which will also be necessary if the strengthening we are now giving the NRK's economy is to last longer than next Christmas. If you come back with a VAT refund, I hope the Government also remembers that it has made a policy for a simpler Norway, so that the reimbursement is reasonably easy to practice, as well as giving the NRK a promise that is a contribution to bringing the NRK into a new technology and an operational basis that is sustainable in terms of obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1271	The last thing I agree with. It must be a purpose for these arrangements to be simple to deal with. This is also one of the reasons why, in the area of the municipal sector, we have reduced a sample that hopefully also finds simpler arrangements than the VAT refund system we have today, which is complicated and which takes a long time before the money is returned. So the question related to the EU system. Yes, we need to ensure that all of our arrangements are sound on the issue of state aid in the EEA territory. Some of the schemes that have been launched may create problems, a little depending on how they are organised. But I think the general position is that we should be able to find a system that can be implemented without being attacked in the State aid field, if we choose a reimbursement scheme. But it is quite clear that the simplest technical approach will be a form of introduction into the VAT system. Let me then say something about the introduction of the VAT system and putting VAT on top of the licence. If people experience an increase in the license, they'll depend on how much money the NRK will be left with. You can pay exactly the same amount as today for the licence, but you can pay VAT, provided that the NRK is not left with any income. So you can gradually increase it relative to that. It is fair in a system to show what you actually pay for the services you have in a public broadcaster, rather than indirectly conceal it through special charging solutions that do not equal the charging solutions that apply to your competitors. In this way, I think it's neat in relation to the political choices, too, to show what the costs are. Only a tax relief decision by introducing into the VAT system e.g. a zero rate will have to be paid in any case, and it will be financed from the State budget in competition with other tasks which are also given priority in this Chamber. But freedom of choice is possible. The introduction of VAT at the top does not mean that the licence cannot be adjusted in the future. It depends on how much you want to strengthen the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1281	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1299	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1308	In general, the members of the Financial Committee and the various fractions have referred to the treatment we had of the long-term programme in the Netherlands. S. No 230 for 2000-2001. There is one issue that the Committee has addressed during the examination of this, and that is the appropriateness of the treatment we now have: first a preliminary examination and then a final examination after a new choice. This is, of course, a process that has evolved over time, but there is every reason to take a closer look at the appropriateness of continuing this process, and the Committee is in the process of doing so. As you know, there have been two major events since the adoption of the provisional setting-up of the long-term programme. It's been a big decision, and it's been a government change. In addition, the comments of the various committee fractions have not changed significantly. The course is the same, the political content is the same, and the desires for the future are also the same. I want to point out a few things on behalf of the Advance Party because the whole purpose of the change of government – at least with our eyes – was to get a whole new course for politics. That was the basis of the Sem Declaration, which was also the basis for the dialogue that was held between the government parties and the party's largest group before the formation of the government, where we wanted to clarify what was to be the government's policy in a number of important areas in the future. It is a pity to note that the new course shines with its absence. So far, the Progress Party does not record any significant change in course of policy. On the contrary, we record on a very large number of important issues – not least in economic policy – a rhetoric on the part of the government parties that is very much in line with the Workers' Party when they were in government. In this respect, not much has changed, and we have not seen much of a shift in the main pillar of policy, namely economic policy, where tax and tax issues, in particular, were to be an essential part of the government's policy. So for the time being, the solutions are shining with their absence. This is an area the Progress Party is going to pursue very closely in the future. And without now starting a difficult and comprehensive debate on a number of policy areas that are likely to be mentioned in a long-term programme, I just want to point out to the government parties that the Progress Party is very concerned about following up what was the basis for the Government being born in its time. And we're counting on the Government to be conscious of its responsibility and to do this, because it was actually with the support of the Advance Party that the Government got to see the light of day. In addition to that, I would recommend the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1327	I'm not going to interfere with the birth-helper or earth-killing debate that Siv Jensen, the leader of the committee, suggests. We have discussed the long-term programme before, as the case-speaker said. I would just like to comment on some of the new economic policy guidelines that existed in the previous long-term programme. It was a very broad deal when the government of Stoltenberg presented this proposal for new rules of action for a moderate escalation of the use of petroleum revenues. It is important to bear in mind that this rule was followed up both by the government of Stoltenberg, the government of Bondevik II and the majority of the population when we used it for the first time in connection with the state budget for the current year. But even if we have a rule of action that we are agreed on, this will not reduce the traditional policy dividers, because it is still the case that we want equal opportunities for both taxation policy and the distribution policy between the right and the left in Norwegian policy. But I still want to warn against a policy that gives the impression that all good purposes can be solved with more use of oil money, such as oil money. The party of progress makes itself a spokesman for. A rapid and sharp increase in the use of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy can increase prices and interest rates and lead to rapidly increasing unemployment in industry and to large conversion costs that we will face for many years to come. In the Labour Party, we believe that the most important challenge in economic policy is to exploit the resources of society, our labour and capital in such a way that we have the capacity to renew both the public and private sectors, so that they can be better and deliver the best possible results both for well-being and for employment. The Labour Party emphasises that the new rule of action is aimed at spending more money on strengthening well-being and that, through tax and tax incentives specifically aimed at taxing labour, we should strengthen the competitiveness of business. The Bondevik II government, on its one hand, has stressed that the extra space should be used for tax havens. This is, in my opinion, traditional right-wing policies – tax incentives rather than better Community solutions. The current state budget has given large tax credits to those in society who have the most, with the result for example. regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional The Labour Party will not turn the policy to the right with tax incentives to the rich and the reduction of Community solidarity solutions. We will use the wider space for action to increase well-being and create better Community solutions. It is important to stress when considering the long-term programme for the second time today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1346	This final setting for the long-term programme marks the political map as it looks after last autumn's selection. Parties that make up a majority in the Storting wanted a shift, and we've got the Cooperation Government. The cooperation parties depend on and want good cooperation with the parties in Stortinget. The party of progress wanted a change of government. It will therefore be natural to cooperate with them in a number of cases, while cooperation with the Workers' Party or SV will be more evident in other cases. I note that the Workers' Party notes in its comments that the Government has «changed the political course». Of course, they warn that this does not have the Workers' Party's support, while the Advance Party in its comments, and also Siv Jensen in its contribution, calls for a new course. I can reassure the chairman of the committee, Siv Jensen, that the government and also the cooperation parties here in Stortinget are conscious of their responsibility. I think I agree more with the representative Ranveig Frøiland on this particular issue, namely that the government shift last autumn involves a change of course in Norwegian policy. Now taxes and taxes are being cut, the investment tax is being removed, the seat charge is being removed, the top tax on income less than NOK 320 000 is being removed, and gradually there is going to be fewer paying top taxes, the house tax is being reduced and must be completely removed, the alcohol tax and the electricity tax are being reduced. The focus is now on diversity and quality in education, teacher training is re-established, students are given more lessons in Norwegian, it will be easier to establish fresh schools. After a decade of structural reforms, there is now a focus on school content and quality and a more offensive environmental policy. After the elections last autumn, the Workers' Party has created considerable uncertainty about its own policies, not least economic policy. Within a few months, the moderate and responsible Labour Party has changed to a play-out and spending party. Billions have rolled in every direction and at a great pace. It is of great importance that we have a broad political majority who have operated within the same economic framework. It creates stability. I am therefore pleased that both Jens Stoltenberg, Hill-Marta Solberg and now also the representative Ranveig Frøiland have put their feet down and clearly stated, both in the comments in the setting and in the post, that the Workers' Party is standing firm when it comes to phasing in the oil revenues in the economy. The consensus to stick to the rule of action is important. Nevertheless, as the representative Ranveig Frøiland also stressed, there is a disagreement between the Labour Party on the one hand and the Cooperation Parties on the other hand as regards the use of the enhanced space for action on the other. We place greater emphasis on reducing the level of taxation, increasing the emphasis on structural changes and modernisation in the public sector. It clearly has a more positive impact on the economy in terms of both supply and labour and industrial competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1357	Let me first say that we in SV agree that this way of dealing with the long-term programme is not necessarily appropriate. The fact that we have a long debate in front of the big-time elections, and that at that time, half a year later, the final vote on the long-term programme is a way to deal with the long-term programme that we might think is wise to look at at at once more. This debate and this position are essentially due to the fact that this is an obligation exercise that the Financial Committee must carry out. The proper, serious treatment of the long-term programme that the Financial Committee had last spring is an important document, and it is asked whether it should not be the final release as well. In particular, because there has been a growing choice between — and that is the procedure — and the decision-making process ended with a change of government, this is also marked by the fact that there have been major political changes on the map with regard to who is in the government, from the start of the long-term programme. But leave it just as a general remark about this. It may well be that in four years' time, more people also see the appropriateness of our choosing to deal with this in a slightly different way. What has happened from the long-term programme was discussed in ours, is that we have got a new government. This is a bourgeois government, a right-dominated government. This is what we are looking at in the Storting, and we are looking at a number of very active state councils that have had the drawers full of proposals that they have long wanted to present to the Stortinget, and that go on taxes, which go on structures, which go on major differences between peoples, and which go on building down what is the welfare state. I must say that I am very concerned about this government. It is a weak minority government that requires support in the Storting, but if you listen to the debate so far, it is obvious that the Progress Party is ready to push this policy even more to the right when it is necessary. It makes the Christian People's Party, which is the party in the Government that initially has a more decent profile related to these questions, easy to fight down. That means that I'm very concerned that this government will in four years do great damage, especially related to structural issues and related to what is a fair distribution of the good in our society. In structural matters, we already see a number of proposals which are ideologically conditional: the sale of the property of the state and the privatisation of businesses currently owned by the community. This has been done for ideological reasons, not on the grounds that it is more appropriate. It means that I have to say that I am very concerned about what can be done by destruction over the course of these four years. With regard to the future of the welfare state, it is clear that we are talking here about the modernisation of the welfare state. But what is really being talked about is a commercialisation of the welfare state, where more and more of what is the community's services are to be offered. This is also done for ideological reasons, not necessarily because it leads to better quality or better service production, but because you want to build up what is the responsibility of the community, i.e. the municipality, county and state. From the point of view of SV, this is also very worrying. If you look at the first government budget adopted by this government with cabinet issues – supported by the Progress Party – you will also see tax policy going in the wrong direction. Here, 9 billion kroner have been adopted in the annual impact of tax relief, mainly to high pay and business, i.e. to those who have the most from before. The social profile of the tax regime was very obvious. According to the tables presented to the Storting, it was quite clear that one with a very common average income did not receive tax relief at all, but its higher income was, the greater was the tax relief given by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. If this image is to be drawn further in the future, it will be very worrying. This will mean that the differences in Norwegian society will increase over this period. And that would mean that the cosmetic suggestions you make for those sitting at the bottom of the table can't at all compensate for this. The money given for tax relief should instead have been used to strengthen the welfare community, to strengthen the conversion of the Norwegian society that is needed, away from the black oil economy and over to the green knowledge industry, which this country will live on in the future. SV has pointed to seven main challenges for Norwegian society during this period, and let me just briefly refer to: The welfare state needs to develop further.Children and young people are the future. So it means a bet on kindergartens and schools, on quality for our youngest. The freedom of foreign policy to act outside the EU must be used. It is a great advantage for Norway not to be part of the European Union, and the freedom of action we have here should be more active, both in environmental policy, in security policy, and not least in aid policy.We want a sustainable environmental policy. This also costs money. It means a change of policy on the environment. However, we must give commendation to a very committed and active state council, which in many questions has surprised us in a positive direction. We want a switch from the black oil economy to the green knowledge economy.We want, as I had before, a fair distribution of the goods, which means that we have to eliminate poverty, and we have to allow those at the top of the table to contribute more.We don't want at least a more tolerant Norwegian society. So that means that Norwegian society has to be multicultural and multicultural. This is what SV welcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1403	In the course of this long-term programme, the Christian People's Party had joint comments with the Centre Party and the Left. This was the expression of the three central parties' willingness to continue cooperation and for the political basis of such cooperation. The 2001 elections did not provide a basis for a government based on these three parties, but the general election on 10 September last showed that the voters wanted a government change. In this situation, the Christian People's Party together with the Right and the Left took on the formation of the Cooperation Government. This government focuses on a policy that is characterized by values that are important to the Christian People's Party. This applies, inter alia, to: respect for human dignity, protection of the family and emphasis on administrative responsibilities. The following policy areas are: The last fall was through a budget that provided the basis for a reduction in interest rates. This alone has resulted in households, businesses and municipalities saving hundreds of millions of dollars in interest expenditure. Managing responsibility also imposes on us a responsibility for the environment and for our use of resources. At the same time as we have a responsibility to use resources for the benefit of people and countries, we also have a responsibility to do so in a way that takes care of the environment where we are to live and stay. I am pleased that far beyond the government's remit, it is confirmed that the Cooperation Government demonstrates both the ability and the willingness to pursue a responsible and offensive environmental policy. This year it is 50 years since the first development aid was given from Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to look beyond borders and think globally. This is also part of our trustee's responsibility. Solidarity must extend beyond Swinesund. It is therefore gratifying that the u-help now equals 0.92 pst. of GNI. The cooperation management aims to increase this to 1 pst. of GNI at the end of this electoral period. The Christian People's Party has always maintained that the family is the most important entity in our society. New times, however, require a new approach to family policy. Current Keywords here are optional and flexible system options, so that parents themselves can organise their everyday life in the way that the individual is best equipped with. We are therefore pleased to note that the cash support has come to stay, and that in Stortinget there is a broad deal about full child care coverage. Voluntary teams and organisations have long traditions and represent an invaluable and irreplaceable social effort. We are therefore very pleased that the government received 200 million. kr for VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organisations in the fall. This is 100 million. kr more than the working party had in its budget proposal. In addition, the Co-operation Board is focused on other strengthening measures for the voluntary sector. Among other things, the Sem Declaration states that one is in favour of a strong raising of the ceiling for gifts with tax deductions to voluntary teams and organisations. It has rightly – and especially in the election campaign last fall – been a strong focus on the great inequalities in our country. It's a paradox that so many fall outside our welfare community. This too is about human dignity and trustworthiness. Thus, the government started rather early in adopting a strong increase in poverty reduction measures. Norway is a great country, but at the same time we have a demanding geography. Fjords and mountains make distances longer and communications more difficult with us than in many other countries. Many of the resources and much of the value our country is building on are located in this challenging geography. This means that regional and district policies are and are an important political area in Norway. It is also for this government, which is not least the interpellant debate that has been highlighted earlier today. It is the business community that provides income to keep up with the development and development of our welfare systems. In the Christian People's Party, we are therefore concerned that business should have stable and predictable framework conditions. Not least through work on the new tax system, this will be a red thread. We also need to be on the verge when it comes to levels of education and competence. The objective is to step up Norwegian research efforts to at least average OECD level by 2005. These scattered examples show that the Collaborative Government's value profile is more than just words. The government takes responsibility both nationally and internationally. The government will take care of the weak in society and want to further develop society for the benefit of both individuals and for the social networks we live in. Examples also show that the co-operation government is focusing on actions that promote value creation. And last, but not least: the government has shown that this can be combined with a responsible and offensive environmental policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1429	The very extensive provisional suspension of the long-term programme was characterised by a near-for-coming decision-making process. The final setting is very modest to the extent. The content is characterized by the fact that we have got a new minority government, and that it is now only the Center Party that accepts the very comprehensive comments of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left from last spring. Our special comments before the elections were on a whole 33 pages, as well as common notes under most of the 15 headings of the Long-term programme. I think many voters have reason to feel cheated when it turns out that the practical policy of the Cooperation Government is so far different from what the Christian People's Party and the Left defended in the Storting four months before the elections. I would like to mention some of the areas where the central policy has been abandoned. In the provisional setting we wrote: «By means of fiscal, fiscal and income policies, the living conditions differences between groups and parts of the country shall be evened out.» The cooperative government did the opposite in the fall. 4 out of 5 billion DKK in tax relief for people were given to them with income over 300000 DKK, while they – over 80 pst. – with lower income received the last billion. All the most was given to well-born male millionaires in the most central strata. The center part had the opposite distribution profile because we had promised the voters. We gave the most tax relief when it came to the pay levels dominated by women. The centre party also wants to contribute in the future to increased net pay for those who earn little, also to motivate them in part-time to work more. We believe that it is more effective than importing labour. In today's attitude, the government repeats that the target is DKK 25 billion in tax relief and tax relief, but the distribution is said to be nothing. But how will you strengthen people's ability to survive on their own income when only crumbs will go to those who have the least? The central parties were strongly critical of the government of Stoltenberg's district police, which we thought was too passive. We agreed to strengthen the regional role of SND. Now the Christian People's Party and the Left have responsibility for cuts in the billion-dollar class for SND, full stops in the allocation of municipal food funds, removal of freight subsidies on gasoline throughout the country, and on milk and green to North Norway. This is contrary to what the two parties promised before the elections, and the consequences are dramatic. The municipal food funds have been particularly useful where there is a greater need for new jobs. The central government was very concerned about ensuring better agricultural conditions. Last year, the three center sections wrote: ‘These members will further develop small-scale agriculture by providing income opportunities to ensure the recruitment of the industry.’ Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim has now announced extensive structuralisation, not least in milk production. It has to mean, as we see it, that the average usage just has to go down. The cooperative management has opened up the transformation into AS for the savings banks. Before the elections, the resistance to the same thing was an important battle cause for the three centre parties. Now run the necessary decisions to open up to AS through in Stortinget at record speed. Where has it been of the importance of local ownership, local decisions for the benefit of small businesses – and where has there been the fear of further purchase and later deflagration that we talked so much about in the election campaign? I also remind myself of the earlier strong and common resistance to the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. Exactly in that case, the voters should be able to feel safe! It was the first time a government was called upon to deal with an environmental issue. Now a strong polluting gas power plant has been set up for the rapid start-up of the Snow White plant. Natural force is free from fear of losing the highly controversial concessions that could have been lost, and that we would probably have fought together that would have been lost if we had still been in opposition. Less than a year ago, the plans for the new defence were a joint project with which the centre parties worked intensively. The right was just an observer. Together, we believed that the Labour Party's plans would frustrate the defence and weaken the defence of Norwegian countries and Norwegian sea areas. We made it clear that a commitment to international operations should not be a threat to national defence. Now the government has removed all these principles. At the top of it, contributions to the Voluntary Sagittarius shall be removed from the Defence Budget. For the time being, the protection of the home shall retain its strength – on paper. I think that is a very unforgiving turnaround. There's reason to believe that the list of total reversals is going to be much longer. So what's the value of what's written in a long-term setting? And another question: Is it strange if the political demise is increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1465	The co-operation management will soon be able to celebrate its six-month anniversary. During this period the government has pointed out a new political direction for Norway. We have been given a more offensive environmental policy, a better social profile focusing on the fight against poverty, and we have been given a more positive industrial policy. This is a policy entirely in line with the priorities of the Left. The new policy course appeared in a number of areas, mainly through a much more offensive environmental policy than the former Labour Party government led – it is the case of Sellafield, climate policy, the work on pollution-free gas power plants and the development of public transport. The 2002 budget of the Co-operation Board totaled 105 million. kr more for environmental purposes than was provided by the worker party organisation, inter alia. more money for the energy fund, energy savings and clean energy sources. The Environment Fund was doubled, from 1 to 2 billion kroner. The co-operation regime has been the driving force for a negotiated solution under the Kyoto Protocol in Marrakech, and for Norway to ratify the Kyoto Agreement quickly. We will introduce a national allowance trading system before the Kyoto agreement requires it. The government will stimulate the construction of CO2-free gas power plants, including: in support of the corresponding exemption from the electricity charge for environmentally friendly solutions. We've had a positive impact on increased collective effort in the big cities, such as the city. The Oslo T-Bahn, the Bergen metro, and more funds for youth and student discounts. The co-operation administration has also increased Norwegian efforts to stop the radioactive emissions from nuclear installations in Sellafield. The government conducts a more business-friendly tax policy with the liquidation of investment taxes and dividend taxes, improvements in option taxation, increases the tax relief on R & D and the removal of air passenger charges. All of this represents important improvements in the company’s framework conditions. The tax will be reduced, and there will be additional deductions, especially for those who think the least. The government has already implemented tax reliefs for over 12 billion dollars, while room for important welfare efforts has been found. The co-operation administration has reduced the Skauge selection, which looks at the reform of income and wealth taxation, with a shift towards flattening taxes and a simpler and fairer tax system. Government proposes modernisation, efficiency and simplification of the public sector. The work on regulatory simplification and reduced form fields has been intensified in line with the ‘Simplify Norway’ project of the Left. Future societies will be multicultural. Increased labour migration will provide the Norwegian community with more diverse skills. The co-operation administration is continuing the work on increased labour migration. These include: simplified rules to facilitate the faster and easier recruitment of specialists from outside the EEA territory. Solidarity is a high priority both nationally and internationally. The aid is increased from 0.89 pst. GNI last year to 0,92 pst. in the year, and the proportion shall be increased to 1 pst. during the landfilling period. Efforts for the poorest have been strengthened, including: increase child support, supports and minimum deductions. Some of the most delayed and forgotten in society, drug users, have finally been properly lifted, with increased treatment capacity and more low-threshold services. Cultural opportunities are high in the 2002 budget and the efforts of voluntary organisations have been reinforced by an additional 100 million. kr. The organisation life in Norway is making invaluable efforts through voluntary work. No one gets as much activity out of each krone as the volunteers in Norway, where most of the work is voluntary and unprofitable. An active organisational life is also an institution for a living democracy and a local community with strong social networks. The government strengthens its efforts to increase security, both in the fight against international terrorism and by increasing its efforts against power, especially family power, which particularly affects women. Women exposed to violence and threats shall receive more rapid assistance and protection. There will also be increased efforts to combat child and youth crime — all important actions, in line with the Left’s programme. Incorrect statements are no longer true because they are often repeated. This applies in particular to the claims made by large sections of the opposition that the nation is about to go under in some kind of extreme right-hand-hand experiment. Of course, this is not right. Anyone who wants to see it. For example, the 2002 budget gave more to those who have at least already, more to the fight against poverty and more to some of the things I have already framed. It is worth noting that the government's policy is being severely criticised by both of them in politics: the party of progress on one side and the Labour Party and SV on the other. The Progress Party will have more right-wing policies, the Labour Party and the SV think it's too much. Such a strong criticism from both wings signals that the Government is leading a balanced policy that manages to bring business, environment and workplace concerns and to an active welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1514	In several areas, the government has set up a course conversion which has been supported by a varying majority in the UK. The chairperson of the Financial Committee started the debate by saying that the fiscal policy solutions ‘smile with their absence’. Now it's a little difficult to say what the solutions in tax policy, in a certain form, are -- that is, a kind of idea of finding out the absolutely ideal tax system. I think maybe I want to dampen the expectations of that kind of finite solutions. However, there is an ongoing investigation into the revision of the tax system, in which the mandate has broad political support, and which also provides for considerable relief both in corporate taxation and in the taxation of persons. This government has also started its first year with over 12 billion kroner in tax reliefs. It'll always be those who think it's too small, but it should be possible to see the difference in the direction of 12 billion in tax austerity and 12 billion in tax relief. Otherwise, I registered with interest that the Government's modernisation statement, which drew up the principles of modernisation of the public sector, met with broad political support, yes to some extent cheering, from the Progress Party. I have also registered that they have notified changes to the laws in the case of fresh oils, and have met the same party's enthusiasm. The same can be said of the conversion of government policies in the civil sector, with a stronger emphasis on support to non-governmental organisations. When the Government has also announced a work for the privatisation of state ownership, a state ownership which in Norway represents some of the highest share of the stock exchange in Europe, it has not met the same degree of jubilant membership of the Advance Party. There I have to say that I am not sure who has changed, but at least we are taking a course in this area that is recognizable: not privatisation at any price, but as part of appropriate industrial solutions for state companies or partial state companies to find a composition that gives a more demanding ownership. The representative Frøiland warned against believing that all problems could be solved with more money. It's a warning I value. I also hope that it reaches all the states of the Workers' Party. I am currently registering wave motion in this area. On the radio the other day, I heard a party representative say, "They're more irresponsible than us." I should not have commented on that, except to say that the amounts are without contact with reality. And I record that a former finance minister is also involved in some of the same thoughts, even after dancing through an annual meeting. I know how demanding it can be! I just want to say one thing in the end, and that is that it's a crazy representation of the government's policy to say that we're going to use the increased space of action in economic policy solely for tax relief. This government proposes that the increased space for action, resulting from increased withdrawals from the petroleum fund and from other measures capable of cutting some areas of expenditure, rationalising etc., be used both to strengthen the welfare state in important and priority areas and to tax relief. In the future, one might disagree with the arrangement of these, but I note with interest that there is broad support for giving the private market, to say the like, increasing confidence that the Government is pursuing a predictable policy regarding increased withdrawals from the petroleum fund – but nevertheless after a predictable line. I'm going to get back to the head of the finance committee and say that in conclusion, one might think that a rule of action that increased the deployment of the Petroleum Fund would lead to the satisfaction of those who have spoken for a long time for increased withdrawal from the Petroleum Fund. But the theory of policy's relativity may not be exactly like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1528	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1531	I think perhaps the Minister of Finance should be a little careful with his quirks related to the rule of action, because one of my questions is just related to it. If the Minister of Finance and the majority of the population are so concerned about dealing with this so-called increase in the withdrawal of oil money along the ‘foreseeable line’, I could well plan to deepen this somewhat further. Because what's happening is that in budgetary terms, the Storting decides a level of what seems to be acceptable withdrawals, that is, how many billion dollars of so-called oil money you're going to spend. And then this is revised throughout the year. The consequence of that was that last year we didn't spend a single penny of the so-called oil money, because we got more tax revenue than expected – and there were a number of other ‘good’ reasons, at least with the government’s eyes, because we didn’t have to spend these oil money anyway. And then the next question is, how do you do it in the next round, if this phase-in that basically means the rule of action, means you're going to use a little bit more every year? If ‘a little more every year’ means that it's zero, because we didn't use anything the year before, it might be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's statement about the level at which you're going to start next year's budget – if you're dealing with that kind of numbering, which really means that you're going to end up with not using anything. So it would be tempting, because it wasn't access to a line on the other speakers – but now the Minister of Finance also represents the Left, who from this pulpit was very busy pointing out how much the Left had achieved – to consider if you could perhaps be a little more interested in how much the voters got through. And what the voters at all didn't ask for through the big shot was to get the Left on the Stortinget. That's what the voters said they didn't want. Nevertheless, the voters have been given three left-wing councils. It might say that you're more concerned here with profiling the games than with taking into account what the voters are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1542	Very familiar was there no referendum last year on whether the Left was going to the Storting! Then one might well say that the voters have had a significant influence on the situation we are now facing, because, as the representative of the Central Party explained long and thorough from the pulpit earlier, it did not become a government formation entirely as it stood in the setting of the long-term programme before the elections. The 33 sides were not ruled by, and I guess you can be sure that it's at least because of the voters. So the voters have had influence like that, I guess that's right to say. But it's clear that the Left has influence in the Government even though it's the smallest party. It is in the nature of cooperation. In some areas, the Left has similar views with other parties in advance, in some areas they have negotiated solutions they would not otherwise have obtained. That's a cooperation, and it's interesting, I think, to look at it also with the eyes of the Progress Party. If it is that I was perceived to be eerie in relation to the rule of action, it is a misunderstanding. That's not what I was -- it wasn't the address, to say it like that. If you're wondering what the rule of action meant last year, you don't have to ask about it, because it didn't apply. It is from 2002 that the Stortinget has ordered us to follow a predictable rule of action. It is linked to the budget deficit and the budget deficit is also affected by economic factors other than the real yield of the Petroleum Fund. Therefore, it will vary. So the representative, Siv Jensen, asks the question, what's next? The next round has been revised national budget. Then you will see that there is also an attempt to follow the same rule of action and adjust what can be taken by the Petroleum Fund, in relation to forecasts of economic development. With regard to 2003, we will also explain in more detail the revised national budget, but I can well point out that the rule of action will then also be affected by the amount of the petroleum fund to be taken out of the real return of 4 pst. off.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1557	I think the exchange of lines between the head of the finance committee and the finance minister was very interesting, in the light of the contribution made by the finance minister, because the contribution made to the finance minister was, after all, an offer to cooperate with them in the Storting, was the Progress Party. That was actually the message in the Minister of Finance's posts. And that's okay -- they're part of the parliamentary basis of the Government. Then, as we heard, came the debate on the rule of action – this is the first year for which it should apply. I think it was good with that clarification from the Minister of Finance. But here, there's a fundamental difference. On the right, together with the Labour Party, and a broad majority of the Stortinget, have agreed on the rule of action. The party of progress has said that it does not accept them. It's another economic policy. It would then be very interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's assessments when he is going to enter into budgetary negotiations with the Advance Party for the autumn. The Minister of Finance now indicated in his statement on the long-term programme that with regard to the budget, it is the Progress Party they are going to go about, while the main economic key we have adopted, with a broad majority of the Storting, is the rule of action. I would like to hear the Minister of Finance assess that situation when he has that estimate in economic policy. In addition, I thought it was alarming that the Minister of Finance in his speech did not at all address any of the main challenges we have, namely how to distribute, and the distribution to the weak and those sitting at the bottom of the table. Here it was one-sided tax relief and tax relief, but nothing really went in the direction of the big challenge we have, namely to promise in common for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1564	There are many ways to see my review of the Progress Party in my main post. I am not sure if the representative Siv Jensen will perceive it equally comprehensively – I also commented on a few political dividing lines. But it is a fact that the Advance Party wanted this government to be born, and we will loyally seek to follow up not least the answers given in correspondence with the Advance Party prior to the formation of the government. It's natural. Collaborating on the budget may also be a source of conflict. However, I think it is important to say that the rule of action is not a rule that binds the content, but the framework, and there will be considerable disagreement about how to use the framework. We have been committed by the Government to providing a balanced economic structure that is such that tax relief is given to people, or companies are given, retained and not taken back through increased interest rates, and therefore it is important that there is a balance in the financial system. I actually used large parts of my post, which was short, to talk about the welfare state. And the welfare state is, of course, the security network that is supposed to secure us against poverty problems. Not all distribution challenges are poverty problems, but part of them are. We are concerned about – and this is what this government has actually put on the agenda, and got quite significant praise for it from many teams – just the following issue: how can a good welfare state like the Norwegian have a network that is so that someone falls completely through? There's no simple answer to, in the real world at least, but we've tried to give some of them, and we're going to follow up in the schemes that come. But I must also say that I will probably warn the Workers' Party a little against going too far out here, for the question of taking care of those sitting at the bottom of the table, did not show up when this government joined, there has been an unresolved problem under several governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1571	Differences in Norway have been strong for many years. We know that from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s, Italy was the only country in Europe with a stronger difference than Norway. This does not seem to have gone unnoticed by parts of the government’s representatives in this debate. I find it interesting to note how the representatives of the two government parties Christian People's Party and the Right emphasize very different things in this debate. The Christian People's Party's representative speaks of the fight against differences as an important challenge for the Government. The right-wing representatives – and the finance minister last but not least – seem to have more than enough to applaud the tax bill provided to the Government. The experience gained during the harvest and the State budget shows that this last approach has been given the most weight by the Government. The benefits of the changes that were made by the tax havens that were made were directed towards those that had the most already. To the extent that the State budget contributed to redistribution, it helped to reinforce differences, not to slow down differences. Right-wing representatives now promise more of this new course, as the representative Sanner calls it, while the representative Sørfonn promises to fight against differences. The question then, of course, becomes how this new course is compatible with the Sørfonn's promise to take differences seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1576	It is not only compatible but necessary. For the main cause of poverty and differences in a society, there is a shortage of jobs. Anyone who is long without a job is weak in a society. It is a recognition that has had broad political support in the Grand Duchy in previous discussions. Our tax policy is designed to help secure jobs. Then you can discuss whether to support the enterprises by taxing not more than abroad, at least the owners of the enterprises, or whether to provide the same owners with DKK 1 billion through public funds. It is in a way more systemic, but I note that there were many who wanted to add significant amounts to the same people through the SND loan and grant schemes. As regards the development of differences in general, I would like to remind the representative that statistics on differences have been significantly influenced by a single major factor, and there are capital incomes and differences in capital income. In years of good exchange development, i.e. high capital incomes, differences will be seen to increase. In periods of lower capital income, where things are bad and everyone is worried about it, the differences are reduced — at least on paper. I want to warn you a little bit about the kind of use of statistics. Because it may give false images that the differences have decreased because of the poor handling of national and international exchanges. But in the real world, for most people, who are struggling to keep the economy, and for those who are struggling with real poverty problems, the world does not experience differently even if the stock exchanges go down and the so-called differences decrease in a society. That is why I am committed to focusing on poverty problems and how to address them through general and more targeted actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1585	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1601	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1610	The Financial Committee has examined Document No. 8:35, proposals for measures at equal fuel prices throughout the country. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a self-financing freight balancing fund and has proposed that the document be annexed to the Protocol. The minority in the Committee, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, with slightly different proposals, are in favour of a self-financing freight balancing fund. On behalf of the SV, I would like to argue a little for our minority proposal. The majority of the population removed the cargo refund scheme for petrol and automotive diesel with effect from 1 January 2002. The argument for this had a background in an opinion that the best way to bring down fuel prices was to facilitate increased competition. This is unsatisfactory for several reasons. Firstly, it does not create a level playing field, but rather reinforces price differences – because, naturally, the opportunities for increased competition are greater where the market is the largest. Secondly, it would mean that the only way to limit fuel prices in the districts is to work for a general fall in the price of petrol. Such a policy is not desirable if, at the same time, we want to pursue a credible environmental policy that facilitates the reduction of car use in key areas. A high price of fuel is necessary to limit greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, other forms of regulation are desirable to ensure that the price of fuel is as similar as possible throughout the country. If there is such a political consensus as we saw here earlier today on the need to maintain a scattered pattern of residence in our country, there should be a similar consensus that it is then necessary to reduce some of the additional costs that fall on those who live in and operate in those parts of the country. In order to achieve this, the authorities need to be willing to take action to facilitate access to resources and infrastructure for people on the outskirts. A self-financing freight balancing fund would be cost-effective in such a way that all consumers are charged the same contribution to the recovery of freight costs, irrespective of where in the country the fuel is purchased. In this way, we can make sure that shipping costs are not a factor that determines price differences. There are already signs that the conversion we have received has consequences. Gas stations and pumps in places that were particularly well-suited under the old system are at risk of closure. This is how price competition in these areas is further weakened, and we can expect a stronger difference in price. The majority of the Committee on Finance has said no to this is an opportunity to stop such a development. There has been a discussion about how to design such a freight balancing fund most appropriately. The Labour Party has stressed in its comments that they agree with us that such a fund should be available, but it believes that it should be financed from the State budget. However, in our view, the abolition of the old scheme shows that such a scheme will be much less stable than a self-financing fund. For this reason, it would be most appropriate to seek predictability and long-termity in regional and industrial policy to go ahead with a case of a self-financing fund. With that, I would like to address the minority proposal, No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1636	Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1639	The Bondevik government proposed and the bulk of the population decided to remove the anti-fracture regime in the treatment of the state budget of the year, and it means relatively more expensive petrol and diesel prices in the districts around Norway, and more expensively one lies away from the oil companies’ depot. The Labour Party wanted to keep the stripping, and it was also inside our state budget. Because if we want to keep up a scattered construction and a competitive business in the districts, the means of communication are crucial. There are always extra costs with long transports. And then it's also bad that private people and businesses out in the district pay more for the fuel. Therefore, it is very regrettable that the bulk of the population cut out this scheme. I now see that both the Government and the government parties refer to, with reference to the Competition Authority, that competition, including local and regional competition, has the most to say for the price of fuel. Yeah, that's right, but one doesn't get away from the fact that when a petrol dealer has to pay more for fuel in, the price point before competition is higher. So the sale price is going to be any higher than if you had a segmentation. It's going to be a strange explanation of the very fact of showing that there's competition that matters the most. One sees that many branches miss one offer after another. They're entering a negative circle, and as the Lighthouse was inside, gas stations are now falling. Many of them could recover by passing through, especially during the tourist season, filling gasoline and diesel. Now they also miss that traffic, because they don't have the power to keep up competitive prices. Another factor is that collective provision is very miserable in large parts of Norway. It's actually going to seem worse and worse. NSB is a good example of that. This makes both business and private people totally dependent on a car, but they still have to pay more for the fuel. We meant and we believe that we should have a anti-fracture system funded by the State budget. The government also states that a State budget defrosting scheme could be a better system than a self-financing anti-frosting fund. This avoids the administrative costs associated with operating an own fund. We didn't think an additional tax on petrol and diesel that makes this more expensive, as with the accompanying administrative costs, is a good way to finance the anti-fracture. That's why we're on top of what we've been saying before. We want a defrosting, and it should be financed from the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1656	The party considers that fuel prices in Norway are a problem both for individuals and for businesses. The relatively small price differences in different parts of the country must be marginal in relation to the generally high price level of fuel generated by sky-high State charges. It must be relatively uninteresting for people in Hammerfest if the fuel price in Oslo is 50 cents lower than in Hammerfest. What matters, of course, is what people in Hammerfest have to pay when they're going to fill the tank. When the State charges amount to approximately 70 pst. of the pump price, it should not be difficult to see what it takes to do with the problem. For many years, the Progress Party has proposed a system of flexible fuel charges that will be reduced as oil prices increase, and vice versa, so that we could have stable fuel prices, and not as now with wide variations over a short period of time, and perhaps dropped the most paradoxical one, namely that when revenue from petroleum activities increases due to increased oil prices, the tax revenue increases at the same time and users are hit twice. There is also a report from the Competition Authority that shows that a freight balancing system is not a suitable instrument for achieving equal fuel prices across the country, with the price differences between the counties being relatively modest, while the differences within the counties are often significantly greater. The key to balancing any price differences is competition from vending stations, price awareness and customer mobility. A self-financing fuel balancing system will also provide additional costs for some consumers who are disproportionate to the impact of the proposal. Thus, in the view of the Progress Party, it is not the relatively small price differences between different parts of the country that are the problem, but the fact that Norway, which has large transport distances and is at the same time one of the world’s largest oil exporters, has fuel charges at all levels. It also seems quite strange, at least from my point of view, that precisely those batches that in this setting are the most concerned about the relatively small differences in fuel prices, usually show no interest in lowering charges, which will benefit all consumers, including those who live in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1667	For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to balance the differences between the districts and more central districts, among other things. Because we have a country with difficult geography and long distances. A wish in this way has been to balance fuel prices. It is still Christian People's Party's wish that one can find measures that can contribute to this. When we do not vote in favour of the proposal for a self-financing freight balancing fund, it is not because we are opposed to the intention of the proposal, but because we cannot see that exactly this is a good solution to achieve the goal of equal fuel prices between the districts and central lines. There are essentially three reasons for this. Firstly, the consequence of this proposal is that consumers have to pay the price. Consumers have to pay an extra charge to get cheaper petrol. We're afraid that this doesn't just sound illogical, but that the gain too many will actually go into the spin. This is also related to my second point. It is true that in such a system as is outlined in this proposal, oil companies will be in control of the collection and administration of the freight balancing fund, and not the state. Then we are afraid that the self-interest of the oil companies can be more governing of what is happening than the consumer interests. Thirdly, we have had a similar system until 1 January 2002 which has provided us with important information on how such a system will affect price formation. Unfortunately, this scheme has not been a guarantee for balancing fuel prices between districts and central districts. This shows, among other things: a report from the Competition Authority of 28 November 2001. The report shows that the main factor of low fuel prices has been competition between oil companies, and such a scheme as has been proposed may weaken that competition. In this context, it is worth noting that this report shows that price differences have been stronger within regions than between regions. These three points make it impossible for the Christian People's Party to go into a self-financing freight balancing fund. So what do we want to do? There are two points in the comments of this document that say something about it. One is that we believe a better arrangement for more cheap chains to establish themselves in the districts, can be one way to go. Then we'll get a stronger competition there as well. The second is that the Minister of Finance will engage in dialogue with oil companies to find new ways to balance fuel prices. We believe that in such a dialogue, new ideas will emerge on how to get lower fuel prices in the districts. The Christian People's Party maintains its goal of equal fuel prices between districts and central struts, but we can't see that this is the way to achieve the goal. That is why we cannot support this proposal for a self-financing freight balancing fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1686	Most political parties have programmed a goal of maintaining the main features of our housing pattern. If this is to succeed, it is a prerequisite that living conditions do not become too different in different parts of the country. The centre party believes that one of the main means of maintaining a decentralised society is to reduce so-called distance costs. In this context, fuel prices are of great importance. Prices of petrol and automotive diesel are currently significantly higher in districts than in more central areas of the country. It is unfortunate both from a policy of distribution and from an environmental policy point of view. Price differences on a krone and usually significantly more per cent. liters are not uncommon. For each household, and not least for industry in the districts, this is unacceptable. The large price differences in fuel are mainly due to three factors. One is the freight costs, which we're talking more about now. Then there is a price competition between the oil companies and between the individual dealers, which is primarily located in urban areas. And then it's the negotiators' margining. The majority of the population – the government parties supported by the Progress Party – decided to remove the freight balancing scheme. It contributed to an increase in petrol prices of more than 50 000 litres in some districts just after the new year, while oil companies are now alerting that gas stations on the outskirts can be closed down. – this is because people choose to buy fuel when they visit the centre if the price difference is big enough. In particular, the trucks, with the tanks they have, can take advantage of this. So the fact that the freight balancing system has now fallen is helping to reinforce an already significant price difference, such as: This is because competition is less distant from the cities you come. The removal of the flotation system is reduced by the majority of the Committee and also by the letter from the Ministry. The centre party believes that the removal is dramatic, because both people and businesses place great emphasis on these prices when they choose where they should be, but not least because there is a signal that the Government and the majority of the Storting don't care. At the same time, those who live and run the most out of business are begging for better conditions, because so many powerful forces contribute to centralisation. The removal of the freight effusion is perceived as dramatic because someone who called himself district friendly in the election campaign is not. Speakers from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party share the view today that it is entirely okay for people in the districts to pay more for the gasoline than people living in cities or in urban areas. The party of progress has always meant it, but not said it very loudly. Today they say 50 more cents is just a trifle. The Christian People's Party is now opposed to a proposal in the district policy for which they were previously in favour. What is being presented is a copy of what the Center Party and the Christian People's Party were all about and fighting for in the Storting for quite a short time back. This is particularly interesting because Prime Minister Bondevik in spontaneous Question Time on 19 December 2001 replied to questions from the President of the Central Party, Odd Roger Enoksen, about the government’s principle of offsetting distance costs, that distance costs should generally be offset. Yes, the Prime Minister even went so far as to refer to the proposal that is being discussed here and that the central government has previously promoted, and said that ‘the majority unfortunately rejected this proposal’ last time it was up to political discussion. This case involves a pattern in which district policy is not a matter for which the Christian People's Party prioritises or fights. This has also been confirmed later by Bondevik, since district policy is not one of the issues he has mentioned as a winner of next year’s budget. That's what people in District Norway will notice – and that's what they should notice. Throughout the election campaign, we, together with the Christian People's Party, stood to reduce distance costs in district policy. In sum, the distance constraints are significant too many. Now the Christian People's Party has abandoned this part of the policy and left price formation at the distance costs to the market. To point out the possibility of improving conditions for the low-cost chains Jet and Rema to establish themselves in the districts in order to create increased competition, I think it is weak. In that case, you should say what measures you are looking at. Such measures are hardly available. Finally, I think it is a pity that the Workers' Party will not participate in subsidiary solutions, when they are very concerned that shipping costs on the outskirts should not be as large as they are. I would like to address the proposals on which the Central Party is associated with the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1718	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1721	The left divides the objectives that there should be reasonably equal fuel prices across the country. We are some in the intention of the proposers, but I do not think the proposal is a good measure to achieve this goal. It has been shown that the anti-sampling scheme has not given the results we wanted. The Competition Authority's report on fuel prices shows that freight smoothing has not acted as a particularly accurate price-smoothing tool. The price differences between the counties are relatively modest, and the differences within each counties may often be greater than between counties. Much of the anti-price means went to central strips as a result of tighter traffic. The system meant less to the districts. Price differences are also greater than those resulting from freight costs alone, mainly because of lack of competition. There, among others. vending stations have established, competition has increased and prices have been reduced. A new anti-sampling scheme will also not give exactly the same fuel prices across the country. Equal prices are probably only possible through direct price regulation. This is also not a good solution. At that time, local competition will fall away, offering higher prices and a poorer supply to consumers. Such a scheme would also reduce competition for companies which have a monthly part of their operations in the districts, with possible closure of district refuelling stations as a result. So the result of good intentions is fast the opposite of what we want. The left divides the objectives of a high level of equal fuel prices across the country. The report of the Competition Authority makes it clear that competition in the fuel market is the single factor that can contribute most to the smoothing of fuel prices between different areas. The government has announced that it will initiate a dialogue with the oil companies to find solutions to this with different fuel prices for different negotiators. We believe that this can also help us to get more equal fuel prices across the country. Then I can't push myself: the representative Rudihagen is talking about the fact that the collective offer in District Norway is not so good. And we can be a few of them about that. But when he talks about the NSB, I want to remind him that it was only in 1998 that a start to increase the effort of the NSB, because we had actually built down the Railways and the NSB for many decades. We might be a few that maybe that's what we're going to bet on, but I think the Labour Party should take a look at its history and how they handled the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1743	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing: see page 2169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1759	Document No 8:49, that investment in and operation of public infrastructure in fairways and ports is treated as equivalent investment in the road sector under the Value Added Tax Act, focuses on the value added tax rules of the port sector. The starting point of the proposer is that public road and rail are primarily exempt from VAT by means of their own regulations. The proposer considers that maritime transport infrastructure needs to be equated with road infrastructure in order to ensure a level playing field. The case has been referred to the Ministry of Finance. In a letter dated 21 February, the Minister of Finance pointed out that special rules in relation to the public road were adopted in 1972 to prevent distortions of competition between public offices and private operators in the performance of public road works. The purpose of the exemption is the same as that of the 1995 Law on the Compensation of Value Added Tax to Municipalities and County Councils for the purchase of certain services from registered traders. This consideration, which concerns price barriers between public and private production, does not apply equally to port activities. This means that it is not appropriate to introduce the same legislation for port activities, as document No. 8:49 Add up. The consultation of the Financial Committee provided information from the Norwegian Harbour Federation on the charging conditions for municipal ports. The problem is that municipal ports are defined outside the VAT law on the majority of their activities. Private ports, on the other hand, are normally subject to VAT. This leads to distortions of competition between municipal and private ports. For municipal port activities, it is a significant disadvantage not to be subject to VAT, as a result of VAT obligations providing for the possibility of deducting VAT on investment costs. In a new letter from the Ministry of Finance, reference is made to the opinion of Ot.prp. No 2 for 2000-2001 on the placing on the market of the right to use real estate for the collection of, inter alia: port charges may be suitable for VAT purposes. The Ministry of Finance further states that this issue will be further examined and that the Tax Directorate has been asked to examine the legal aspects, including the scope of any VAT obligation for this type of service. This reply was based on a majority of the Financial Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. This majority writes in a note that the ministry is asked to return in an appropriate form to the Stortinget with a briefing on the status of the investigation of port VAT obligations. As regards Document No: 8:49, the same majority proposes that the minutes be annexed. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party also agree to the inclusion of port activities in the scope of the VAT Act, but would like to make a direct proposal to that effect. The members of the Committee from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have also reached the same conclusion on port activities and VAT obligations, but want clarification in relation to the revised national budget for 2002 or the State budget for 2003. I would also like to mention that the cooperation parties and the Progress Party are united on a note that the VAT law should be neutral between private and public activities. The fact that no more parties could adhere to this general and good principle shows that there are still lines of Norwegian public policy. I think the Committee in its work on Document No. 8:49 important conclusions have been reached in relation to the infrastructure for maritime transport and the framework conditions of the VAT system. This may have an impact on future investments and thus improve the framework conditions for maritime transport. At the same time, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee gives the Ministry the opportunity to give a thorough examination of the matter, so that we avoid further distortions in the VAT system. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1789	The starting point must be that in Norway it makes sense to have a well-developed port system so that as much as possible of goods transport can go by sea, both because it is reasonable and environmentally sound, and because in parts of the country we have a road network that is poorly capable of taking on the ever-increasing transport of goods. Then we need a good network of modern ports along the whole coast. In Norway, these seas are largely municipal and part of public infrastructure. When municipal ports are mainly considered to be operating outside the VAT range, this means that they operate in a shared manner in relation to the VAT law, i.e. they have turnover both inside and outside the area. It implies that they have the right to deduct only input VAT for the part of the activity that is subject to a charge. Turnover outside the scope of the levy shall not be calculated on the basis of the final charge, nor shall the acquisition for the purposes of such turnover be entitled to the deduction of the input tax. Since large parts of the activities of the port services are calculated as turnover outside the charging area, they are deducted from the input VAT for large parts of their activities. This would, of course, affect the amount of port charges that carriers have to pay, without specifying this and allowing carriers to deduct it as input VAT. VAT is therefore paid on VAT. It is true that the proposer has pointed to a real problem and a serious problem for those concerned, but as the Progress Party sees it, the solution is not good enough. Seaborne transport is subject to an additional cost in relation to other types of transport — a not insignificant competitive disadvantage. This can be solved in a simple way by incorporating port activities into the VAT Act, as proposed by the Progress Party. I would like to refer to the proposal from the Party of Advances, which has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1800	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1803	For various reasons, maritime transport conditions have had an unfortunate development over a number of years. One reason is the competitive situation of road transport. Arrangements to carry more transport from road to keel require investment in infrastructure, including fairways and public port facilities. The port sector is governed by its own legislation, which is the Port and Water Law. The assumption is that the sector is self-financing. In other words, ports finance their entire operation through user charges, which in turn means that ports are not granted a grant to operate from the State or municipality. The national tranport plan highlights the desire to strengthen maritime transport in order to transfer more goods from road to keel, but nothing about how to do this. In addition, it is stated in St. Prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 that the role and opportunities of maritime transport have not been sufficiently clear in practice or in planning. This is due, inter alia, to: the framework conditions for ports have not been clarified. Ports shall contribute more to the enhancement of national value creation and shall facilitate good cooperation between private and public ports. So it's not lacking in good intentions and fine words. In addition, if the coastal cargo fleet is to be able to cope in the short term, it is necessary to significantly improve the framework conditions. Today we are sitting with a worn-out fleet because of the framework conditions, it is claimed from the industry itself. In my opinion, it is extremely unfortunate and unfair that public ports have a fine of 24 p.m. as regards the investment and operation of those installations. If you invest in the way, it's exempt from VAT. If you invest in a public dock, it is charged with an extra cost of 24 pst. criminal duties. If you use a public road, it's exempt from VAT. When you break the quay, you get 24 pst. additional expenditure. If the State Road Service builds a ferry rental, it is exempt from VAT. If the municipality is building a ferry rental, they are charged an additional cost of 24 pst. This additional cost is not reimbursed to public ports, unlike private ports. This must therefore clearly be seen as an unfortunate distortion of competition between private and public ports. In addition, it is known that the industry has worked on this matter in approx. five years without any incident. That is why the Coastal Party and the Central Party are promoting proposal No. 2, that we must have a clarification on the budget for the autumn at the latest. Regardless of the outcome of the vote, I would urge the Government to consider this issue for immediate clarification, so that we can initiate a much larger transfer of goods from road to road, which is in line with the National Transport Plan. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, No. One, we don't disagree. Our proposal, No. Secondly, we have about the same intention, so we will vote in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09.ana.ud962e1822	Karl-Anton Swensen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately at hand. [[Fotation, see page 2169]] The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
