ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e31	The representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e34	On behalf of myself, Per Sandberg, Karin Andersen and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, I would like to make a proposal for a temporary law on transitional rules in the Act of 6 May 1988 No. 22 on compulsory pay under leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e39	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e53	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e64	This is a joyous day for voluntary Norway, for sports and for cultural life throughout the country. The decision that Odelstinget will take today represents the greatest promise of history for grants to sports facilities, cultural activities and sporting activities. It has hardly been a similar lifting – perhaps except when this was introduced with tipping agents. The question of the distribution of the tipping agents has a long history. As early as 1985, changes in the gambling law were discussed in this room, where it was discussed to make a different distribution key for the drugs in the tipping law. At that time it was sport that was going to get a bigger share. It was stopped by a cabinet question by the then government Willoch. In the years that followed, it has been discussed several times to change the distribution of the drugs. The concern has always been that the research that was to be phased out would be harmful. Today we have got a new source of money for research, namely the Research Fund. And it's through the Research Fund that we have now found a solution that makes it wise to change the key in such a way that research is also fully ensured. Yes, in fact, research through the change that the majority of the Committee on Culture now advocates by changing the key, while increasing the Research Fund by DKK 14 billion, is worth 400 million. kr more in the next three years than it would if we hadn't made any change at all. It also means that research is ensured a more stable source of income. The research fund's return is quite stable. It is based on long-term interest rates rather than, on which some newspaper commentators have almost produced them as, the rise and fall in share prices on American stock exchanges. It must be more reassuring for research to have such a stable source of income than to depend on how many Lotto plays in Norway at any time. When, in addition, we have a majority in the Committee which clearly states that the plan for stepping up research is firm, I am very confident that this will benefit research. Some have expressed concern about the share of basic research in total funds when tipping in this way. I would say that it is entirely possible to distribute the funds so that the basic research comes out at least as well as today. It shall also determine the majority of the Committee. In the past, the size plan for research has been adopted, which represents a much stronger increase than the additional money now coming from the Research Fund. So, through a reasonable distribution of the increase, basic research can be strengthened in such a way that, if politically desirable, a greater share of research funds is actually obtained in the future. We're going to phase in changes to the key over three years. When it's fully phased in, it means 430 million. NOK extra for sport and SEK 430 million. extra kr for culture. The sports money is mainly intended for civil engineering investment. It means almost doubling plant expansions every year. And that's what's needed. We hear quite shocking stories, especially in the urban areas, about how sports hardly get time in the halls. Some people might get one hour a week, and it goes without saying that you just can't do shiftwork with one hour of training a week. Especially in the capital, there has been a very large lack of sports facilities, and a huge lift is needed. This money means that some counties get 20-30 million. kr extra every single year for the construction of installations. The funds will be made available in their entirety to children’s and young people’s community facilities — halls, swimming pools, football courts, etc., which will enable children and young people to easily access sports facilities and to carry out their sports activities. In addition, part of the money should go out to the teams and special associations, so that you can spend a few dollars on training and running, so that all the everyday heroes who run the voluntary sports Norway can spend a little less time on hard work, a little less time on lottery and tombs and a little more time on what is most important, namely the sports activity for children and young people. A huge increase is being made in Norway through voluntary work. If there's something that can kill it and strangle that work, it's that you have to spend at least as much time collecting money as on the activities themselves. Therefore, this contribution will not only contribute to the operation of the clubs, but it will also help to maintain the enormous voluntary effort that we are completely dependent on in the years to come. In addition, outdoor life will receive part of these facilities – 7 pst. must go to open-air facilities. That means we can get multiple marked runs, and we can have several other opportunities to practice outdoor life. As a former Minister of Education, I am particularly pleased that the cultural school bag is getting such a big boost. The cultural resources shall be distributed by 170 million. SEK to the cultural school bag, 130 million. SEK to the Free Fund scheme, and SEK 130 million. kr for libraries, infrastructure, cultural buildings, etc. In the 2002 state budget, 18 million were proposed. kr to the cultural school bag. It was cut by the current government to $12 million. kr. This means an increase of 170 million. kr. It's a revolution for the cultural school bag. This means that children and young people throughout the country can enjoy culture – visit art galleries, visit theatres and orchestras, engage in cultural activities themselves, invite authors, actors and musicians into the classroom, just to get acquainted with all the different forms of art we have both by experiencing and practicing them. At the same time, we assume that this will benefit the entire cultural life. By the fact that schools, municipalities or others buy cultural services from different actors, the whole spectrum of cultural life will benefit from this money. That's why it's not right, as it's been said, that it only benefits a part of cultural life. I record that some people are worried that this is going to go against the other cultural budget. I just can't understand that, because there's going to be as much money from the tipping money into the budget as before. It is only if the Government has a deliberate desire to downgrade the cultural budget for the benefit of other parts of the budget that it will be the result. There's no correlation between what we're doing on the key and the other cultural budget because the flow of money will be unchanged. Then you can say that this eats up some of the action space in the state budget in the years to come. Now it's not long since we heard the Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, how the tax havens should now flow to Norwegian society by raising the peak tax entry point, by increasing the bottom tax rate, by removing the house tax, yes, 30 billion dollars are promised in tax bills in the coming years. What we are doing now on the key to tipping, for sport and culture, and for the benefit of children and young people, is 280 million. kr, i.e. less than a tenth of what's promised in tax bills in this period. So if the Minister of Culture has problems incorporating this into the rule of action, it might be an idea to take one more round in relation to all the tax reliefs promised by the Government. At least there is no doubt that there is room within the state budget for this increase. It's strange that when it comes to all the tax relief that the government has promised, it's not irresponsible. It is not irresponsible when the Minister of Finance frames one by one from the Chair of the Right National Assembly, but when it comes to a few tens of millions of children and young people and to sport and culture, it is immediately irresponsible, as it is at once very problematic in relation to both the balance of the budget and the rule of action. Voluntary Norway, sport and culture, has been the heart of the Christian People's Party for many years. There's now a majority that shows something in action, and that's finally what counts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e103	The basis for the Odelstinget case is a Document No. 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of The Progress Party proposed to the current State budget to reduce cultural appropriations by DKK 1.2 billion. In this Document, No: Eight proposals, which come a few months later, are proposed to increase cultural allocations by approx. 450 million. NOK – then over a few years. It is by no means surprising that the Progress Party is acting that way. What is more surprising is that the Workers' Party, immediately after the government responsibility has been laid down and immediately after Trond Giske has left as a research minister – he only mentioned in his speech that he has been Minister of Education, and I understand that when you look at this matter – he throws himself on such a syllable basis as this Document No. The eight proposals are, where there is no evidence of the long-term budgetary consequences, and where the parties which constitute a majority of the Committee do not have a common impact on the net increase in the expenditure side of the State budget which is the consequence of the proposal. I can't believe that the party that put itself in government responsibility a short time ago, and that found it necessary to launch a comprehensive investigation of the entire policy of lottery revenue and its use for the future, has got so busy that one has to resort to such an ill-founded proposal from a party that one almost always disagrees with in cultural policy. If the Workers' Party had not been willing to start with this kind of political mediation, then obviously neither would SV have been able to imagine the possibility of going in for such future dispositions as this. I don't think anyone else but those who run with this jump and jump-policy can be impressed by the jumps and jumps.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e112	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. The President will propose that we complete the change of line already in progress before the morning's sitting is cancelled, and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e115	I think as a former research minister, I can stand with a very raised head. In my time as Minister of Research, the Research Fund increased from DKK 3 billion to NOK 11 billion. The size target had been for the fund to be between 10 and 15 billion kroner by 2005. We reached the target in 2001. In the 2002 state budget proposal, we proposed the largest research increase in history of DKK 1.7 billion. Correctly cut Inge Wohnnings party and government research budget by 200 million. NOK when they took over. So I have some understanding that Inge Wohnung is a little concerned about what the Government is going to do with the research budget in the years to come. But then it has to be reassuring that there is now a majority in Odelstinget, and also in Stortinget, to increase the Research Fund by a new DKK 14 billion, so that research is secured a stable income and not dependent on Lotto revenue. It's been 17 years since the first time the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV were united to change the key. Now, the fact that we're doing it again, can't be a big shock. What has been crucial for the Workers' Party is that the research funds have been secured. And when, in addition, we have managed to have a majority in favour of these cultural means that now benefit the entire cultural life, not at the expense of similar areas in the cultural budget, it is very reassuring. But, of course, the Minister of Culture must fight the same battle to ensure that the cultural budget wins out in relation to other priorities of the State budget, including: to large tax havens. But as I said, it's a very paradox that when we talk about 280 million. Dr to next year for sport and for culture for children and young people, then you turn on the big bang and say that there is no coverage here. But when the Right has gone into the removal of taxes on working capital in previous years, it has proposed NOK 3 billion more per year. years until the defence budget etc., then there has never been any mention of containment. But then the Right has not managed to keep its promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e124	The representative Geske said that the decision we are making today represents one of the greatest aspirations for sport and for culture among children and young people who have been made. It's very positive, it also seems Christian People's Party. What I want to challenge the President-in-Office and the representative Trond Giske are two things. One was also affected by the representative, Inge Wohnung, and he goes on to say that he adopts a proposal without prior investigation and review, despite the fact that the Workers' Party's own government initiated an extensive investigation into the gambling and lottery area in order to facilitate the possibility of making such assessments. You skip this. I would like to ask the representative Giske whether this is in line with what can be called proper procedure? The second question concerns the use of these means in the field of culture. I think it might have been good to clarify what the Workers' Party believes when, for example, they did. talks about strengthening and «investment in local/regional cultural meeting places» as it stands. The Committee has just made a visit to Moss. And to take an example: there we visited a library that was under construction, a great place that could be very useful to Moss' population as a local meeting place for culture, and we were also visiting Gallery F 15, which we could see for ourselves the need for substantial investment. Now I would like to ask Trond Giske: will investments in such meeting places fall within what the Workers' Party believes to be part of the decision made in Odelstinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e137	The majority write in the setting how to distribute the increased cultural resources, but we also say that here the ministry has to come back with proposals for the organisation of these different distribution schemes. We've deliberately not gone into a detailed description, because we want the department to really investigate it. In the case of Freefonds, we already have a system, so I assume it's unproblematic. And as for the cultural school bag, this is a completely different amount from what we've been talking about so far. The $12 million. kr which is currently used for the cultural school system, is partly used for various measures, but primarily for developing the scheme. $12 million. kr can never carry the cultural school bag. 170 million. On the other hand, the cultural school bag can really be worn. How the department will propose to allocate that money will get the department investigated. But I don't care that a possible solution could be that this money is earmarked for municipalities and schools, so you can get a sum of money per. school levels in municipalities for the use of the type of activity. They may range from bus money to visiting a gallery or to paying for various channels of dissemination by different artists. But that's what we get when the department comes back with it. In terms of construction arrangements, we have an item on the State budget that goes to construction. We'll also leave that to the department to come back to. But I do not ignore the fact that what we were looking at in Moss can be an action that can be supported by such a system. But once again, we get back to that when the department has looked into it. What is essential is that this should not be at the expense of the arrangements that we already have on the cultural budget, it should be added, so that it becomes a real strengthening, similar to the increased transfer. Then the representative asked Lånke why we want to make such a change now. This is about a case of law. This is a change in the key, which is regulated in the form of the law, and therefore it is not necessarily part of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower.ana.ud1074e148	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The morning's meeting is now being cancelled, and a new meeting is scheduled to be held at 6 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
