ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e28	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Olav Akselsen, Tor-Arne Stroem, Haakon Blankenborg, Bent Höie, Jorunn Ringstad, Øystein Djupedal, Elsa Scarbøvik, Per Erik Monsen and Martin Engeset, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on Per Ove Width leave from 30 January to 1 February to take part in the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the United States of America from the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative Morten Lund from 31 January until further notice from the Group of the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Ivar Østberg from 31 January until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the County of Troms: Leif Christian Johansen For the South-Trondelag County: Karin Galaaen For the Westfold County: Vidar Andersen3. Leif Christian Johansen and Vidar Andersen are elected to Lagginget at the time they meet representatives Ivar Østberg and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e109	Vidar Andersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e114	The President proposes that a president be elected for the Storting meeting today – and considers it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e119	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e124	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected President of today’s meeting. The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e129	I would like to make a proposal, on behalf of the representative Ola D. Glötvold and myself, to amend the rules on compensation for protection in national parks and for the protection of landscapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e134	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e138	I will, on behalf of Thore A. Nistad, Kenneth Svendsen, Per Ove Width and myself, make a proposal to give free cards to residents in the vicinity of toll crossing parallel roads, as part of clearing the road of growth and injustice at the toll collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e143	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make four private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e146	I would like to make four suggestions: a proposal for measures to combat sexual abuse of the child proposal for stricter control of the asylum seeker proposal to amend the electoral law in order to increase the influence of voters on the choice of persons for the Grand Duchy proposal for measures to limit the use of knives to harm other people
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e164	Karl-Anton Swensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e167	I would like to promote a private proposal that investment in and operation of public infrastructure in fairways and ports be equated with that in the road sector under the VAT law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e172	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e193	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council of State Ingerd Schou The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e209	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Today, the world is witnessing a spiral of violence in the Middle East. Violence breeds violence, and the only way out of it, is for the parties to return to the negotiating table. A prerequisite for negotiation is that the parties are given the opportunity to negotiate. It is undermined today by what is well under way by the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat. The UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, recently stated that what he called the virtual house arrest imposed on Yasir Arafat must cease as a first step on the way to halt the violence in the Middle East. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Norwegian Government agree with the Secretary-General of the United Nations that what is in practice a house arrest by Yasir Arafat must end?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e216	Yes, the Government has made it quite clear that it serves no purpose to try to isolate Arafat, and that Israel and others must deal with him as the elected leader of the Palestinians and as the foremost representative of the Palestinians. This includes, among other things: our Minister for Foreign Affairs has also been made very clear. I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that it is necessary to seek to return to the negotiating table. Unfortunately, the climate is currently very difficult because of the widespread use of violence. We have appealed to both parties to refrain from violence – to the Palestinian side to do what they can to prevent more terrorist and suicide acts, and to the Israeli side to show restraint also in the case of retaliation following such terrorist attacks that they have been constantly subjected to. We are also in constant contact with the parties and contribute to the dissemination of views and information. Unfortunately, I have to say that for the moment I am not very optimistic about a new round of negotiations, but there is a broad consensus that that is what is going to happen, and that the precondition for that happening now is respect for and realization of the so-called Mitchell and Tennet plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e225	I am pleased with the positions expressed by the Prime Minister. We clearly agree that it is important that Yasir Arafat is no longer isolated, because it undermines the possibility of having negotiations again. When this is such a clear position on the part of the Government, I would like to hear how and where and on what occasions the Government has so clearly expressed this to the American and Israeli authorities, because in the public debate the Government's views have not always been so clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e230	The Minister of Foreign Affairs was in the Middle East early in the New Year and expressed these views. He met both Ariel Sharon and Arafat himself, and was probably the first high-level foreign politician, as far as I know, who visited Arafat after this new situation arose. It was in itself an expression that at least we wanted to contribute to the attempt to isolate him. And, as far as I know, the Foreign Minister has also expressed a similar view in telephone conversations with his American colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e235	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e238	I am pleased that the Prime Minister so clearly states that the Government is against the house arrest of Arafat in Ramallah. It is clear that it is almost impossible to imagine that one should be able to move forward in a peace process as long as one important actor in such a process is under house arrest and de facto is prevented from participating in the ordinary life of society in Palestine and also from performing his duties. It is clear that what lies in this is a total humiliation, and it is to deprive President Arafat of the authority a president office should of course have. What is important in extending this is that the Norwegian Government makes its position known. And so far it must be said that, to the extent that the Norwegian position has been known, it has been a secret, because the Norwegian Government does not appear in the public domain to be particularly balanced on this issue. As a rule, you fall on the position of the United States and Israel. Does what the Prime Minister now says, that he wants to make contact with the US authorities, take this up in the UN Security Council, where Norway has a seat, to ensure that at least President Arafat is given the authority that his office actually deserves, and that he is given the opportunity to carry out his presidential office in the autonomous areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e245	The President will express some doubt as to whether something that is known can be a secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e249	Know in this room – only.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e254	I guess it's been known a little bit further out than in this room. As far as I remember, I heard the Foreign Minister say this in a television interview, so I don't think he's tried to make a big secret out of it. And I cannot agree with the representative of Djupedal that the government is not balanced. We have addressed both sides. We believe that Palestinian authorities could have done more to stop Palestinian acts of terror and suicide, and we are not alone in saying that. It means a lot of governments. We also believe that Israel should have shown greater restraint in retaliation to prevent the spiral of violence from increasing, and we have expressed this to both parties. In my view, it is a balanced policy, and it is also wise for Norway to have if we are still to be able to play a role at all in the work for peace in the Middle East. Our views have been communicated both to the parties in the Middle East and to the US authorities, and we are of course constantly considering whether there is reason to further repeat and reinforce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e261	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e264	I have a question for the Prime Minister in connection with the ongoing debate on compulsory marriage. On 30 May 2000, there was a wide-ranging debate here in Stortinget on this. It was also a couple of years earlier, when several representatives expressed that they had been, as the municipal minister said yesterday, silly, and that they had not taken this seriously enough. So it's almost two years ago, and little has happened. The debate shows that there is still a current issue. On 30 May 2000, the Progress Party promoted eight concrete proposals, all of which were voted down — including the issue that has now emerged — on a legal ban on the marriage of cousins. Furthermore, we proposed that family reunification by collection, where marriages are taken from other countries to Norway, be possible only if the Norwegian spouse has housing and labour income, i.e. dependability, and that in any case no residence in Norway should be given to a foreign spouse if the marriage is concluded by coercion. Of course, there will now be proposals. Is the government now set to end with mere vocabulary and move on to action by joining these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e275	I will certainly reject the fact that the Government is only engaged in ‘orderry’. We are working very concretely, and we are doing so on the basis of the action plan against coercion, where point by point has been followed up – concretely and not just in words. Our attitude is that coercion violates fundamental human rights. That is why, of course, it is totally unacceptable. It is also invalid under our marriage law, and an action may be brought for the marriage to be declared invalid if it has been concluded under compulsion. Of course, it cannot be accepted even if it is rooted in another culture or religion. The applicable Norwegian law and law shall be followed regardless of immigrants as by others. With regard to the issue of marriage between siblings, this is a prohibition which was in the Norwegian law of 1687, but which was lifted almost a hundred years ago – for good reasons. When this issue comes up again – and it has been suggested in the past – we will of course consider it, but I have to admit that I am in doubt that this is what will solve the challenges we are facing. One must be able to assume that many will then enter into such marriages abroad, and it is much for the Norwegian authorities to oversee an approved marriage in another country. Another thing is that this also has certain health aspects, which there is good reason to run information about. But that a reintroduction of the law ban of previous centuries in this area would solve the issue of coercion, I have to report my doubts about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e284	I understand that the Prime Minister is still in doubt. It has now been shown that the action plan to which he refers and the measures to which it refers have not produced the desired results. A number of recordings from young women in the media in recent days are just about to ask the Stortinget to take part of the decisions that the Progress Party has previously proposed but that all other parties have voted down. How long will it be before there are concrete legislative changes? The Prime Minister is well aware that we can change our foreign law so that if a marriage is concluded abroad between siblings, cousins and cousins, can we prevent them from staying in Norway as a result of marriage? The problem is that a lot of people pick up spouses from abroad, and we never get to change these attitudes. That's why you have to stop the family reunion. Is the Prime Minister willing to make a positive assessment of some of the measures now being implemented in Denmark by the sister parties of the current government parties? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e293	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e296	It is not the case that if one is not in favour of the concrete legislative proposals of the Progress Party, then one is the closest member of forced marriage or will not do anything to prevent it. We have not agreed with the proposals that have been put forward, because we do not think they have been correct or adequate. However, the Stortinget has concluded on the concrete measures contained in the action plan. This is not a simple question to solve overnight, because I think Carl I. Hagen is right that this is primarily a matter of attitudes. Therefore, the Government attaches great importance to entering into a dialogue with the relevant immigrant communities in Norway, just to create the right attitudes. It's a work of a certain long-term character. One cannot believe that one solves this question by a couple of law decisions – and then suddenly the problem is gone. I think most of us are aware of that. The government is now reviewing the previously adopted action plan against coerciveness in order to update it – in order to liquidate actions that are not working and to introduce new ones that may work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e305	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e308	In one of today’s newspapers, the UDI now assesses one relationship with family reunification, namely that so-called approved marriage abroad can be made by letter. This means that a resident can send a letter to another country in order to get married in another country and then apply for family reunification in Norway. Does the Prime Minister consider it to be a so-called approved marriage that the Government does not want to review? Or does the Government believe that there is a measure that should be stopped quickly as a practice by the Norwegian side, precisely to prevent marriage of the type and use of family reunification in such a sought-after situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e313	After all, there must be a serious test of marriage and matrimonial conditions, that this is a truly concluded marriage. If there are arrangements that raise doubts that there is a real test, we are of course willing to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e319	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e322	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about kindergartens. In the election campaign, the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister were out and promised that kindergartens in Norway would cost an average of NOK 1500. Today, the situation is that many municipalities raise child care rates by several hundred dollars a month. In the election campaign I tried to get Bondevik and Stoltenberg to participate in a contract that we could write to the voters, because it turned out that the three parties agreed that kindergartens should not be praised as an extreme luxury property in Norway, but that the tariffs should fall, and that the offer should go to everyone. It wouldn't be Bondevik that time. Now I wonder what the election vows were worth, and when kindergartens in Norway are going to cost NOK 1500 on average.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e331	I guess it wasn't only Bondevik who wouldn't sign Halvorsen's proposal for a contract; as far as I remember, Stoltenberg also refused to do so – for good reasons, because that kind of papers don't think I'm the right way to pursue politics. I remember a election guarantee for some election campaigns back also that did not exactly have the desired effect. It doesn't mean that the goal of bringing down the nursery prices to the level of Kristin Halvorsen mentioned is gone. There are two goals we have to try to achieve. Firstly – and this has been said by the Sem Declaration is the most important thing – it is now necessary to expand the offer so that anyone who wants a nursery place gets it. It is a prerequisite for a real freedom of choice between kindergarten and cash support for the smallest children. Secondly, the price has to go down. It is true that some municipalities have such a weak economy that they do the opposite. But we also see that a number of municipalities now, after the increased state grant, find the basis for lowering prices. It's positive. Prices are even higher in private kindergartens, because a good part of the private kindergartens only receive subsidies from the state and not from the municipality. As we know, the Cooperative Government has taken a step that we hope can be taken from next year, namely that all public support for the kindergarten will be brought together in one pot, so that private kindergartens that are not currently receiving municipal grants will together receive the same government subsidy as the public kindergartens, or as the private ones who receive both state grants and municipal grants. It will be a contribution to bringing down some of the highest nursery prices we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e340	When I hear this answer, I have a certain understanding that Bondevik would not sign any guarantee as the campaign crashed at worst. But one still has no idea that the voters could perceive the signals of the Christian People's Party and their own whole-page election campaigns in the biggest newspapers, where the Christian People's Party promised that the nursery prices would go down to $1,500 on average. What will the Government and the Prime Minister do now, when you see that the kindergarten rates go the other way, when there are private kindergartens that say that they can't actually do this, that they have to go down, so that there are neither cheaper kindergartens nor more kindergartens? In Sweden, a reform called Maxtaxa is about to take place these days. That means that no one is going to pay more than $1140 in a month for stays in kindergarten. So it's going to do the Swedes without a single crown of oil, because they've prioritized this. When the Prime Minister promised this in the election campaign, I think he will answer the question I asked in the beginning: When can kindergarten parents in Norway expect the fare to be NOK 1500?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e347	As far as I remember, we said that it was a measure of the growth period we have now entered, and in my view, there are three instruments for this. First of all, what I have already been involved in, namely bringing together all public support for a kindergarten in one transfer scheme, so that it reaches all approved kindergartens. Then we can bring down the prices in the private kindergartens that today do not receive municipal subsidies. Secondly, of course, child care support can be increased over the state budget, and thirdly, the local economy, which is the main reason why not all municipalities now, despite increased state subsidies, have managed to reduce prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e354	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e357	I understand that the Government's ambitions in this area are very low. I think it was economist Keynes who said that in the long run we're all dead. I guess that's the perspective you have when it comes to babysitting, too, that you shouldn't do anything in the foreseeable future. But let me ask a very specific question, because after all, the Storting came through two rounds, not only in the existing budget, but also in the revised national budget, with appropriations for extra bets on kindergartens. This should have meant a lower childcare rate for 2002. This has not happened in very many cases. In my home municipality, Trondheim, the nursery rates have gone up by NOK 300 - 400 per year. Place, whereas the opposite should have been the result: after increasing the State subsidy, the fare would have been reduced by NOK 300-400. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is this acceptable? And what sanctions do the Prime Minister see when a municipality acts contrary to what the majority of people have wanted? The tariffs were to be lowered, but many municipalities have opted to set up the tariffs on the contrary, because of the poor local economy. Does the Prime Minister think this is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e366	Firstly, I cannot agree with the representative of Djupedal that the government has low ambitions and will not do anything in the foreseeable future – on the contrary. The bet on kindergartens has never been as big as it is now. There was a broad consensus on this in the Stortinget, and we will do more in the foreseeable future also through the three actions I mentioned in my last reply to the representative Kristin Halvorsen. I find it regrettable that municipalities are setting prices instead of dropping them. I think that, which also admitted Djupedal in a petition, is related to a difficult local economy. I think we should be extremely careful about that state's arrangements and how they prioritise scarce resources. We have as far as I know, per. to date, no penalty possibilities to do so. Then we have to resort to legal provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e373	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e376	I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the Government seriously believes what has now been signalled by the Council of State of Davøy, namely that one group of people in our country, namely immigrants, who have only in common that they are immigrants, and give them free kindergarten. This means that there is no distinction between being I wonder what kind of signal the Prime Minister thinks you're sending out to the rest of the population when you pick out one group of people based on one, to the degrees of speciality, without taking into account what resources you have, what skills you have, what living capacity you have, etc., before considering the kind of criteria you might use to set a nursery rate for your parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e381	What the Council of State said was that she would consider extending an existing regime in this area, because it has actually proved to have a very good effect on something not least the Progress Party has been concerned about, namely that children with migrant backgrounds should learn Norwegian as early as possible. That's the point. When one is faced with a measure that has actually had that effect here in Oslo, the Council of State has said that she will consider whether it should be extended. But no final position has been taken. We are also aware of the concerns expressed by the representative Siv Jensen. But it is possible that we need to do something untraditional in order to achieve better integration in Norway. This may be such a measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e389	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e392	Finally, it is a result of the cash support that very many, including minority parents, have taken their children out of kindergarten, so that they have thus lost the Norwegian training, the Norwegian knowledge, that results. This is why it is so important that the investment in kindergartens to which it has been committed in the 2002 state budget and in which the Bondevik government has not cut – and they should be commended – is followed up in the years to come. It has two purposes: one is to get enough kindergartens for everyone; the other is to make sure that they have a price that parents can afford to pay. In the budget debate in the autumn, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs said that the objective of kindergarten development – we have said that full child care coverage is 80 pst. – now it was reduced to 70 pst. That means 30,000 fewer kindergartens. Today it is also more unclear from the Prime Minister about the goal of getting kindergarten prices to NOK 1500. So my question is quite specific: does the Prime Minister meet the 80 pst targets? Coverage and a price of NOK 1500, and will he follow it up in the government budgets in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e401	The government's objective of full child-care coverage and a price level as stated by the representative Giske. But there could be municipalities where 85 pst will be required. or 90 pst. for full needs coverage, and there may be municipalities where there may not be more than 60-65 pst., so that percentage is quite theoretical and, in my view, not much interesting. If the child is in line and does not have kindergarten, it will not help if it is 80 pst. coverage, and if there is no kindergarten queue, there can be no goal of building more kindergartens than the need suggests. Here, the estimates of what full needs will mean vary. But that doesn't mean the government has switched off on the target. The goal for us is not necessarily 70 pst. or 80 pst., the target is full needs coverage. And then it turns out what the percentage is finally going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e406	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e409	The question goes to the Prime Minister: I have a collection of media essays here, where the municipal minister shares his dream with the newspaper readers. She dreams that in 10–15 years there will be 100 fewer municipalities in the country than it is today – a strange thing to dream about, you ask me. But that is now in the hands of the Minister of State. Since this has been one of the major issues of debate in recent times, I would like to have clarified by the Prime Minister: What is the Government's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e416	Yes, the representative, Mr Enoksen, will be able to clarify this – and there is full agreement between the Minister of State and the Prime Minister. The government's policy is that we should have the best possible service provision for the country's citizens in all municipalities, as much equivalent service provision as possible. And then the municipalities themselves will find out if they want to maintain today's municipal boundaries and structure, whether they want to invest in more intermunicipal cooperation, or whether they will also in some cases assess a municipal association. It has also made it quite clear to the Council of State of Solberg that this should be based on voluntary action. She thinks that we get the best possible structure, based on the criteria I now mentioned, if you get a significant number of fewer municipalities. But it's not the government's intention to try to force it forward. This shall be based on voluntary activity. Her opinions fell well elsewhere in connection with a successful municipal merger in Vestfold, where I think it is currently the central party rapporteurs who think this works very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e423	That's absolutely right. There were centre party rapporteurs in both municipalities, and the centre party is not against voluntary municipal associations either, but when I address this question, it is among other things. based on the question of Kristin Halvorsen. It is the municipalities that are the main service provider. The municipalities are responsible for the operation of schools, care for the elderly, kindergartens, and without an acceptable municipal economy, there will be no good offer in these areas. The Minister of Local Affairs has said, and the Prime Minister now confirms that this should be on a voluntary basis, but I have to say that it appears in a strange light when the Minister of Local Councils says at the same time that there will be demands on municipalities that have financial problems, to assess the association in order to receive financial support. That's what the Mayor said in the same talk. Municipalities that address the county with the request for exceptional State aid will then be met with the requirement to implement conversion measures – bundling or inter-municipal cooperation. Given that as many as 79 of the country's municipalities are currently under the administration of the county council, I have to ask the Prime Minister: how does this rhyme with the fact that there will be no coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e432	I don't think it's unreasonable that the municipalities in a situation where they have to ask for exceptional funds should consider possible conversion measures to make it a more efficient local economy to maintain a good service provision. I don't think that's unreasonable. But I stand by the fact that the government does not intend to force any community. If you evaluate it at local level and find out about it on a voluntary basis, I don't think we from a central team should oppose it either. It's the government's policy. The local economy is still poor in many places, although transfers have increased significantly. The government is committed to pursuing a general economic policy that can provide the basis for a better local economy. Just the decrease in interest rates before Christmas gave the municipalities 400 million. kr more. If there is room for further interest rate reductions beyond the year, hundreds of millions may be added to the municipalities. This will be important for the service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e439	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e442	When we now talk about services, studies show that in municipalities with less than 6000 inhabitants, 80 pst. of the population satisfied with the provision of services in schools, health and care. In municipalities with over 60,000 inhabitants, the level of satisfaction has fallen to 40 pst. From this point of view, my question is: does the Prime Minister agree that the dream of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs of 100 fewer – and thus larger – municipalities can be a very bad dream for many people who are engaged in a good service?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e449	I must admit that, as far as I can remember, I have not dreamed about this, so I have no exact answer to that. It must also be allowed for a state council to dream. But the figures Haga mentioned now are interesting, because it turns out that one is perhaps more satisfied with the service provision in many small municipalities than in larger ones. It must also be stated that it is not such that the municipal economy is necessarily the worst in small municipalities. There is a link between the service provision and the local economy, and this may indicate that there may also be many municipalities other than the small ones that have a tight local economy. And if they are satisfied with their financial situation in a small municipality, with the service offer, yes, I guess they do not see any need for community association. And of course, the government will respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e457	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e460	I am pleased that the Prime Minister stresses that there must be voluntary action in the area of municipal associations, and that this confirms that respect is respected, for example. referendums. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that if there were to be a failed community merger that you want to dissolve, and you get a private initiative and a majority to dissolve it, the government will respect it. Then I have a question for the Prime Minister. When we have grant schemes for municipalities that are potentially inefficient, because all municipalities get the same amount of crowns – which you will lose if four municipalities join one, instead of four crowns they get one – is it not better to ensure at least that the grants are neutral, so that they are of course based on objective criteria such as geographical conditions, population, different age groups, etc., but that the municipalities that see efficiency and coordination are not penalised financially by joining together? Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to have a neutral system so that the benefits of any merger will fall to the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e467	First, the first representative, Mr Hagen, mentioned it. I agree that if someone on the local level comes to the conclusion that one will dissolve another merged municipality, we should have the same respect for it. And at least it comes to my mind right away, since I'm from More and Romesdal, that this has happened. Sula municipality, which for a time was integrated into Ålesund, was separated again as its own municipality, and they thrived well with it. In the case of the grant schemes, something has actually been done recently to counteract the adverse effect of the representative Hagen pointed to. As far as I remember, under my previous government, an arrangement was initiated whereby merged municipalities retain the former grants in a long transitional phase, so that they do not have an economic system that counteracts a voluntary association. But that is going to happen on a permanent basis, I'm probably more in doubt about it, because there must be arrangements that are somewhat comparable in terms of the municipality size. And if a merged municipality is of the size of another municipality that receives a completely different grant, it would seem unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e474	The President then notes that there is a full cross-political agreement that both marriage and divorce are a voluntary matter, including in the case of municipalities. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e479	The question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. Very many young people, both lonely and couples in the start-up phase and students, have a very poor economy – not because income is particularly low, but because they are victims of sky-high housing prices and rents. I have reason to believe that the Minister of Social Affairs is working on measures to combat poverty in Norway, and therefore I would like to ask: How does the Council of State include these skyrocketing housing costs in the fight against poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e486	The government has started work on an action plan against poverty, and as a basis for action, the Government also needs to clarify the concept of poverty. A relative low income limit set at half the median income defines who is poor based on the overall distribution of income in society, and such a poverty target does not capture all the issues related to poverty, as the representative also points out. The measures that we will focus on in particular in the action plan will be those that prevent people from becoming poor, that is, those that go on the prevention side, those that contribute to self-sufficiency, and those that also contribute to improving welfare services. In the review of measures that can prevent people from falling under the concept of poverty, this is about work; it is the most important measure to get people out of poverty. It is about social inclusion, but it is not least about housing, so the representative's questions will naturally be part of the work on tackling poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e493	I thank you for the answer, which shows that this is an important area in the fight against poverty. I am happy to hear that the government has it in its image, because it is the case that everyone in this room and also outside this hall knows that very many – especially young people – are being heavily exploited in the housing market by what I would call house sharks, that is the abuse of the housing shortage we have in Norway today. We hear about rentals of more than NOK 10 000 for simple apartments. Does the Minister see the need for, for example, to enter into dialogue with owner-occupiers to look at the rental issue, or does the minister see other ways in which a person can quickly remove the most unworthy conditions in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e498	As the representative probably remembers, the Government also promoted a supplement in the additional proposition when it concerned housing support schemes in relation to light and heat. The relationship pointed out by the representative will be a natural part of the work on the action plan against poverty, and housing is a central part of that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e503	There will be follow-up questions - Ola D. Lukewarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e506	It is interesting and positive to hear that the Minister of Social Affairs is involved in prevention, but there must also be some concrete measures. Among other things, social housing may seem to me to have been flagged little by the current government in providing reasonable rental homes for young people. However, to drive prevention and reverse this development, it is important that a reversal of the movement rate and the pressure in these areas that now have the highest housing price. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether she believes it would be a proper development now to facilitate larger municipalities, greater population movements and thus even greater pressure in the areas that have high housing prices today, or whether it would also be preventive in terms of the defusing of housing prices and living costs to keep some of the population in the districts instead of creating such major pressure problems as we already have today, and which we are going to get even more about centralisation going faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e511	Social housing is important and central. When I have said that this is an important point in relation to our action plan against poverty, it is also about the review and discussion that is necessary in relation to the House Bank and the use of the funds in the House Bank. It will be an important matter for me to ensure that the funds of the House Bank also go to those who do not have housing – of whom we have 6 000–7 000 in Norway – and also to those who are first-time residents. So this is really central.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e517	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e520	Interestingly, the debate is now moving towards what has to do with high housing costs. But in the debate we have on the problem of poverty, it is very often a group that is being left out, and very often it is the one that is actually the most struggling, and it is the country's many thousands of minimum pensioners. Especially in urban areas and in cities with high housing costs where you do not own the dwelling yourself, there are very many minimum pensioners who are struggling because of the low pension they have. It has been interesting to note over time that the Right Party, from which the Council of State comes, has always supported the Government's current proposal on social security settlement, or has opposed proposals for increases for the minimum pensioners. And then my question to the Council of State is: Will this Council of State from the Right take more account of pensions and pension developments for the minimum pensioners, so that they can get out of a mess with high expenditures, high housing costs and little to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e525	It is important that all those who experience poverty are included in our action plan in relation to poverty. We know that developments in the last century made it important to have good and secure welfare systems that embraced everyone. However, we see that there are individuals and individual groups within larger groups that fall outside, and we are concerned that everyone — including the elderly and pensioners — is placed at the centre of our work in relation to the action plan against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e530	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e533	It is good that the Minister of Social Affairs has also been involved in the issue of poverty and the most difficult to get out. However, the question arises as to how a policy can be implemented in practice to deal with those who have the most difficulty. In this context, I would like to highlight the impact of the changes in medical rehabilitation and occupational rehabilitation benefits. This has been the case since Stortinget, i.e. the majority of the population, SV was against – the previous year decided to change, reducing the number of paydays per year. a week from six to five days, the spouse allowance falls away, the tax increases, the social security charge increases, half of the special deduction falls away, the possibility of earning a free amount falls away, and the benefit to cover the household fee falls away. In sum, this means that a number of people who have been on vocational rehabilitation or who have received rehabilitation benefits now have to go on social assistance in practice to get their ends to meet. This should be an area in which the Minister of Social Affairs should engage in the consequences. Does the Minister for Social Affairs intend to do anything about the conditions I point out here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e538	It is important that disabled people are included in the labour market to a much greater extent. It is also important that those who are out of work or who are in part-time work have much more flexibility in relation to social security and rehabilitation. There are a number of factors that affect the situation of those who feel that the money does not go into everyday life, and we will take that into account in the work on the action plan against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e543	The President will recall that the additional questions raised must have a reasonably clear link with the main questions with which they are linked. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e548	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. The size has decided to expand on the care of elderly people in Norway, and we have spent billions of dollars outside the municipalities to get better care for the elderly. The Progress Party has for a long time warned against this kind of expansion that you can see, because it is more like a housing reform, and we now see the consequences of it. There are still long queues in the case of sick homes, the number of sick homes compared to previous years has not increased significantly, and we see poor staffing and high sick leave among employees, which makes the offer poor for those entering hospital homes. In addition, we now see that some municipalities offer a lower price. We are even in a situation where one municipality has now proposed to force some older people out of one housing offer and into another. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: What action will the Minister for Social Affairs take against municipalities that have not properly followed up the ageing plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e555	The provision of care for the elderly should be large enough. This means offering assistance to older people who need it, offering good quality and meeting the different needs of users. What is a good offer will be different from the user to the user. Some people who need good luck and care will want this in a nursing home, while others want to stay in their own homes as long as they can with organized home services. Since 1997, we have expanded the care of the elderly to increase capacity and to offer private spaces to all those who want to do so, and to modernise and renovate old building masses. Through the action plan, the physical conditions are to facilitate good care for the elderly. Quality is also about the content of services. We bring a case to Stortinget this spring that says something about the end of the retirement plan. There we will also address the further challenges in the care of the elderly. We also aim to come back next year with a big message about the content and quality of care for the elderly. We also need to look at the resource situation in the sector and the financing of services, both in terms of payment by users and in terms of the financial situation of municipalities. Through the action plan we have had in the care of the elderly, the number of annual shifts in the provision of care and care has also increased. The Ministry has also provided guidance to municipalities on quality requirements. We're going to change it to a regulation, so that municipalities can make demands on the content of their services – whether they're self-employed or private. Equally full, the user may also make clear requirements for the content of the service. With regard to the specific situation to which I believe the representative refers, in the municipality that is being forced to move, I have asked the supervisory authorities to give feedback on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e566	I thank the Council of State for the answer and look forward to the fact that you may be apprehended in exactly the municipality with regard to the forced relocation that is taking place there, because it cannot be a good treatment for our elderly people to be forced to move because the municipality has a different view of where you are going to live. Nevertheless, we see that there are very large differences between municipalities and municipalities in the care of the elderly. We see that there are major differences in the type of measures and housing that are being taken. Very often, it is related to the economic situation in which the municipality itself believes they are, and the priorities which each municipality takes. In this context, the Progress Party wishes, inter alia, to: the need to ensure that the State can take over responsibility for the care of the elderly, precisely in view of providing an equivalent offer to its citizens. Will the Council of State take a closer look at the possibility that the State may assume responsibility for the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e573	The municipalities are responsible for the operation of the care services, and in my view, the best design and prioritisation is the one that gives closeness to the municipality and the individual user. Then I want to tell the representative that there may be different reasons why patients have to move from one hospital home to another, among other things. from multi-bed rooms to single rooms, and from old buildings being modernised to new ones. This is part of the seniority plan. Last night I was in Ålesund and saw that this was just done in an exemplary and good way. However, it is very important that the municipality and the individual leader have a dialogue with and provide information to relatives and users that makes them included and present in their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e581	There will be follow-up questions - Ola D. Lukewarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e584	First, a comment on this with forced displacement. I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that, in a transitional phase, there may be a need to move out of an institution because of renovation and conversion. But we have also recently experienced that the whole community of elderly people has been asked to move out of the branch and into the elderly institution. There is little harmony with the freedom of choice that I thought this government also offered, and I think the Social Minister should comment on it. In this case, it does show that there is too much effort on housing and perhaps too little on open care and home care and help in the home. So to the content of services and quality requirements. I am glad that there comes a follow-up case on this in line with Care 2000, which we had for treatment in Stortinget in the previous period. Manning factor is an important theme in terms of quality and adequate manning. Will the Government propose that there should now be a manning factor for care and medical coverage in e.g. The nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e591	There is no manning factor. There are probably some norms that lie there, but there's no overall percentage that says how the manning factor should be in a nursing home. This is about the possibility for municipalities to differentiate, both in terms of the offer of open care, in nursing homes and in nursing homes. The starting point is that the quality and the supply are to be proportionate to the individual’s needs and that the starting point is for both manning and quality content. As far as medical supervision in hospitals is concerned, this falls within the area of the Minister of Health, but we also have close cooperation, precisely because quality is important in the care of the elderly. And what's very clear is that we see that there are a number of municipalities that haven't taken advantage of the opportunity offered by the fixed reform, that is to say, to commit fixed seven hours per hour. weeks in relation to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e598	Today's last main question is asked by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e601	I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs a question. The Minister for Social Affairs has said on several occasions that there is a need for a new social policy. It opens up an exciting debate. What is the aim of the new social policy in that case? The Minister of Social Affairs has made it clear that the Government is less concerned with cohesion policy and more concerned with targeting, needs testing and tailoring. The Minister of Social Affairs has now run his department for over a hundred days. Can she now give concrete examples of how this new social policy should be reflected in practical policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e610	It's absolutely right that we want a new social policy. There has been broad political agreement on the major welfare changes in Norwegian society, and there has also been broad political agreement on very many of the things that characterise social policy. At the beginning of this year, in an additional proposal, we have already given direction to what should be part of our social policy, and it is about increasing the child supplement compared to disability, it is about low-threshold services – it is about a number of things that we have put on the agenda for 2002. We are in the process of working on the action plan against poverty. We're working on ending the retirement plan, and we're going to come back to Stortinget with what's come out of it, and how we're going to handle the continuation. We are also working on an action plan against alcohol. We have already started this with respect to the year 2002, and we are coming back with a further reform in the field of care. We also have important social security schemes, both in terms of pensions, disability benefits and a number of other conditions. It is important to say that very many of the areas that are under the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs embrace everyone in Norway, and so is central. We are committed to having a network and fundamental rights in place, for which there has been broad political agreement, but we also see that we need to tailor to capture those who fall through these networks. It's about both – and, both nets and tailors' boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e619	I thank you for your answer. The Minister for Social Affairs has gone quite high and said that there is a need for a new social policy. It creates expectations. The social minister now refers to the fact that the draft state budget grants more to existing schemes, talks about completing an old age plan adopted four years ago, and then a drug plan is to be drawn up that you have long since decided to make. I think it is right to ask the Minister for Social Affairs that this new social policy should be able to emerge gradually from some practical examples and not just to refer to plans. So I repeat my question: can the Minister of Social Affairs provide a concrete practical example of new social policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e629	It is good to hear that the representative refers to a number of schemes that we are also continuing and that various governments have been involved in. It's a citizen that there's a broad consensus. New social policies mean that we should have the good welfare arrangements at the bottom, but that we should also have a tailor-made approach. That work is in full swing, and we come to Stortinget with issues of both follow-up and continuation in the care of the elderly, action plan on drugs and, in addition, similar to poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e636	There will be follow-up questions - Sigbjørn Molvik
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e639	In the context of the fight against poverty and a new welfare policy, there is a group that has also been mentioned earlier in this issue today, and it is people who rely on performance. There the rules have now changed so that many of these, after the messages we get, depend on going to the social office to get additional financial help to keep their heads above the water. My question to the Council of State is this: does the Council of State agree with the principle that social security benefits, including back-up benefits, should be at a level that ensures social security beneficiaries a safe economic foundation without being dependent on social assistance, and that this must be one of the most important measures in the fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e644	This brings me to the Storting's clear request to establish a joint establishment of social security offices, social security offices and Aetat. It's with great enthusiasm that we've been doing that work. It is a delusion to be a user of these services out in Kommune-Norway today, among other things. because it's about telling its suffering story in several offices. But it is also about services not being properly coordinated. This is going to be part of the investigation that we're already doing, which is going to be done for the first six months, and which we're going to the Stortinget with to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e650	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e653	The follow-up to the old age plan and action in the care of drug users are good measures, but there can hardly be called a new social policy. So we're still missing the answer – after a hundred days – to what this new social policy is all about. It is well and good that there will be messages or proposals for the Storting later, but we could perhaps get a little glimpse of what the new social policy is all about. But maybe we can see moves that show a new social policy. We see that the main thing is no longer to make people poor, but it's to make sure that those who are poor get help. It is important to give those who are poor, help, but the most important thing is to create welfare systems and a society that makes people not poor. An example is high school books, a well-being that we have proposed to be free of charge for everyone. That's where the government takes away the money, and then you say that you should give a scholarship to the poorest. Is it the line that is the new social policy, that we remove the universal arrangements that make there not a difference between the poor and the rich, and rather give charity to the poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e661	In the case of school books, it's under the jurisdiction of another state council, but I'm still going to answer what's the general one. It's that if we're going to have a plan of action that's going to hit them, it's important to make sure that it's the universal solutions that are the right ones. This is part of the review we have, among other things. in relation to measures to combat poverty. It is important in the new social policy that we have good welfare arrangements, but we must be sure that they work. We also have to make sure that they work in relation to the individual and the person who needs it. That's where the tailor's eye comes in. In this case, it is gratifying if the representative can agree that it should work in relation to the individual, but should also be a security vis-à-vis groups, and that one is more concerned with scrapping than just thinking of cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e666	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e671	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 5, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Questions 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, from the representatives Eli Sollied Överaas, Åslaug Haga, Per Roar Bredvold, Bendiks H. Arnesen and Karl-Anton Swensen of the Minister for Transport, respectively, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been removed. Question 22, from the representative Odd Roger Enoxen to the Minister of Defence, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e690	This question, from the representative Lars Rise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e693	‘Afghanistan has an acute need for assistance and during that year at least NOK 350 million shall be transferred by the Norwegian side. How is it possible to ensure that the money reaches its objective in a country that is largely lacking in banking services, national audit and control of public funds, and will Norway, as the leader of the ASG, take the initiative to ensure that the funds transferred from other countries are not also subject to abuse and underestimation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e700	Norway, in line with other donor countries, is very concerned that aid to Afghanistan should be used as effectively as possible to meet the basic needs of the population and support the fragile political process in that country. Norway will provide at least 350 million, as the representative was present. kr to Afghanistan in 2002. This amount includes both support for the transitional administration, humanitarian aid, transitional assistance and longer-term development assistance. In order not to lose momentum in the political process, it is very important that the UN transitional administration can show concrete results for the population, such as: the payment of wages and salaries and the reopening of schools and hospitals. In Norway, therefore, initially agreed to support the transitional government by about half. Twenty-seven million. kr. In order to ensure the best possible control of the money, however, we do not provide direct support to Afghan authorities. The funds are channelled through a dedicated fund managed by the UNDP. The Afghan authorities may use funds from the Fund only with the agreement of the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. However, the vast majority of Norwegian efforts are humanitarian aid. This is channelled through the UN, the Red Cross, the Church's Emergency Aid and the Afghanistan Committee. Most of the Norwegian voluntary organisations have worked in Afghanistan for a long time, and we feel confident that they will use the funds properly and appropriately. With regard to the longer-term reconstruction aid for Afghanistan, it will be channelled to a large extent through a common fund to be managed by the World Bank in consultation with the United Nations Development Programme. The Fund’s aim is precisely to maximise the efficient use of resources through transparency, clear priorities and coordinated efforts by donor countries. Coordination among donor countries, UN organisations and other actors is essential for the best possible use of resources and for groups and parts of countries not to fall outside. Effective coordination is also important in order for Afghan authorities to have the best possible overview and control of aid operations. Norway will use the Presidency of the Afghanistan Support Group, ASG, to work towards this end. Afghan ownership is also important. The head of the interim government, Hamid Karzai, has made it clear that the transitional government will place a crucial emphasis on combating corruption, undermining and other abuses of public funds. We do not have full security against abuse. But with the channels that are now in place, in my view, we have a good starting point for the aid to be used for the benefit of the people of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e719	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That sounds reassuring. I trust the Government will make sure everything is done to secure a transfer of funds to Afghanistan. It is important in a dramatic situation for the population of Afghanistan that there is no greater emphasis on developing security procedures than sending help to a people suffering. We know that over half of the population in Afghanistan have never experienced peace. One in four children is at risk of dying before they reach the age of five, and there are enormous problems in school and health, as the Council of State also mentioned. Only 39 pst. by the boys and 3 pst. Of the girls go to school. The primary health service is down. There's an acute shortage of drugs and hospital equipment. Afghanistan now has 70,000 bases of war, many of which are very young. The need for crisis psychiatry is enormous. Will the Council of State ensure that the Government gives high priority to providing assistance as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e728	In addition to the shocking figures that Lars Rise correctly points out, I can also mention that Afghanistan, according to our figures, has the world's highest infant mortality rate, and we are facing a very, very critical situation. We all know that doesn't give society the ability to pass what I want to call this test, it will have very dramatic consequences. The representative Rise is quite right in the sense that the population needs to see rapid results — it needs to be done quickly, and it needs to be on the basis of basic needs. We are now doing the maximum to coordinate the donor effort, so that it is not on the giver's side that the mistakes are made. We are not entirely satisfied with the structure laid down, and we are working intensively to achieve all coordination in Kabul, so that the most effective use is made of the funds. So in addition, we're working in relation to these funds, so that full transparency exists, and there's full control of the funds as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e735	I thank you for your answer. After all, the temporary government of Afghanistan, led by Hamid Karzai, has very acute needs, as mentioned here, in terms of wages and salaries, and not least in terms of reducing acute distress. The Karzai government operates in a disaster area and needs to deliver quickly to survive. Of course, very dangerous situations may arise if the government of Karzai does not have the power to deal with the acute problems. There are enough opponents and reversing groups around the country. And we've seen examples of that in the last place. How will the Government contribute to the stability of the Karzai government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e742	We have been among the fastest countries in support of the Transition Administration through this Fund for the UNDP Development Programme. Norway is among the countries that have supported the administration with the most resources and among those who have been the fastest on the plate with it, precisely because we see that this is such a fragile peace process that unless the government of Karzai manages to stack on its legs a real administration that can deliver, we have a very big problem, and the security problems can increase significantly, as the representative Rise is in the process. We have said internationally and in connection with the Tokyo meeting that most of our long-term resources will go to the common fund for which the multilateral institutions, with the World Bank at the head, will be responsible. It is precisely in order to strengthen the Interim Administration and strengthen coordination, so as to maximise Afghan ownership on the one hand and minimise problems in terms of uncoordinated donor intervention on the other. So I think the government is doing the maximum to do exactly what Lars Rise wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e750	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Residence obligations relating to the acquisition of dwellings are practised in several municipalities, in particular in the South. Professor Normann Aanesland believes that demands for housing involve a public theft from the billion-dollar housing owners. Lillesand municipality has even imposed a dwelling requirement for heirs. If the dwelling is not satisfied, the family property may be subject to public coercion. You feel committed to distant dictatorships. Is the residence requirement also for heirs in line with Norwegian law and should not the entire concession law system be reconsidered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e759	Neither the concession law nor the regulations given in accordance with this law contain rules on the residence obligation of heirs in respect of the acquisition of residential property. However, the rules provide for the possibility to introduce rules on the concession obligation for the sale of property out of the family. Such regulation has been adopted in 76 municipalities, on the basis of the concession law as it stands under the decision of the Storting in 1983. A common feature of these municipalities is that local government believes that local communities are at risk of being weakened by the use of properties for holiday places instead of annual residence. The municipalities are located along the whole coast to and from the north and in different mountain ranges. Almost all municipalities along the Oslofjord down until Mandal has introduced such a regulation. The management of land use is an important element of municipal autonomy. I would like to remind you that the regulations have a fundamental democratic anchor. They are introduced on a local initiative and after thorough treatment by each local government. The arrangements have been put in place following a public debate that revitalises local democracy. The use of legal rules as a means of preventing adverse land use developments is both common and necessary in a society like ours, and such regulations naturally lead to price differences in the possible movement of properties. Correspondingly, the building ban in the 100-meter belt in the beach zone and rules related to protected areas and buildings have been introduced. In particular, there are similar consequences where, through the legislation of the Law on Planning and Building, municipalities dispose of land for different purposes. I am also not familiar with the presentation of the rules given through the reports and today's questions relating to Normann Aanesland's studies. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that some of the municipalities that have introduced a reduced concession limit under the concession law have also adopted statutes under the Planning and Building Act aimed at maintaining all-year residences for residential purposes. Lillesand has introduced such a statute and the provisions of the Statute may affect the use of all dwellings, including properties inherited by close family members. However, questions relating to such statutes fall within the responsibility of the Minister of State, not of the Minister of Agriculture. I don't want to go any closer to them for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e768	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In my view, the answer was, of course, rather disappointing. My clear opinion is that the whole system of both concession, residence and operating obligations has a number of weaknesses in itself that make it most suitable for a comprehensive reassessment. A concession law allowing local politicians to exercise almost compulsory residence and, in the ultimate sense, also forcing people to sell their private property must, of course, be characterised as a highly inappropriate public intervention in a democratic country. Many suggest that the entire concession system does not function properly at all, and thus does not contribute significantly to strengthening the settlement, as intended. And let me say: shouldn't it be within the framework of any democratic country to show respect for private property rights, and to allow the inhabitants themselves to decide freely where they want to live or own a dwelling in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e775	I am a very owner of the property. I am very much in favour of having great respect for ownership and room for the individual owner's freedom, but I think it's important to distinguish between shaving and cutting off our head and let this be completely free. In a modern society, regulations are needed. And I mentioned someone in my answer, related to both the 100-metre zone and other things that will affect the free ownership in many areas. On this specific issue, I again think it is important to stress that the introduction of zero land limits into the concession law, that is to say, that it applies to residential property, is the responsibility of local democracy. This is decided by the local municipal authorities. It's elections every four years. This can be done mainly as a matter of policy, and local authorities that do not implement this system can be set up. I think that must be important to emphasize. As far as family relationships are concerned, as I said in my answer, it is not related to the regulations of the concession law. In that case, it is solely linked to the adoption of a statute for the Law on Planning and Building. The municipality has a regulated residential area in which dwellings are built, often well-organised by the municipalities, linked to the statutes which make it necessary to continue to be dwellings and not cabins.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e784	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But let me repeat my vision. I do not think there should be any such public regulations and restrictions on the marketing of private properties in this country, whether they be located in the beach zone, the beach edge, or whether there is a farm on the land. I am therefore reacting with indignation to this type of public intervention in private property law in respect of private dwellings, which also represents a huge public economic robbery by those who are subject to housing obligations. One who – as I myself – comes from a part of the country where living in the coastal zone is very topical and also very controversial, sees that the whole system is for the longest, because it simply does not help to ensure permanent settlement to the extent that politicians want, but rather creates disunity, unfriendliness, anxiety and poor living environment in many of the areas where housing is imposed. Then you might want to ask the Council of State: when we weigh what is the intention of the law, up against the negative consequences that we often see in the wake of the practice of this law, does the Council of State really believe that these elements and facts that I am here demonstrating are immaterial in this context in assessing or reviewing the entire concession law system, and especially with the effect this has vis-à-vis the obligation to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e791	I think this round of questions shows that here there are some profound political differences that emerge. Making it clear, as the questioner points out, without public regulation on these issues, stands for me as a completely unimaginable idea in a modern society. But once again, we have to take care of the reasonable balance here. It's the way ownership and change of property probably always have a fight, and would also do it within a system where it was free. There will always be someone who manages to buy attractive properties, and someone who doesn't, and it can create conflict in the neighborhood and in every way. But I want to remind you of one more thing: The government, through the Sem Declaration, has announced an increase in the concession limits to 20 plus 80 dekar. This means that many more properties will be the subject of free movement, where they will not be related to a dwelling unless each local government chooses to introduce the land frontier zero also for that type of property. And it's the responsibility of local democracy to make that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e801	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: «In recent times, the pressure on more than one aspect of the image, name, age, housing, etc. has changed. to the members of the jury in serious criminal proceedings. However, even if such a statement is not contrary to current Norwegian law, it may increase the risk of adversarial action against the members of the jury, which may in turn affect the members of the jury in the assessment of the debt issue. Is the Council of State concerned about the possible effects of such referrals, and does the Council of State see the need for tightening up in current legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e810	Recent developments have focused on the increasing focus of the media on persons in criminal matters. This applies to both professionals and laymen. In the case of laymen, they are in contrast to professionals in a situation where they carry out a civic duty when they are members of the jury. They have not chosen to be members of the jury themselves, but carry out an obligation from which they cannot initially claim exemption. If jury members are exposed to or feared to be exposed to threats and reprisals, it could have consequences for people's willingness to deal with such matters. It's unfortunate if evolution is about to go so far that people are afraid to sit in a jury. This may in turn lead to more active use of the rules on exemption from elections as a member of the jury. The exemption rules will be further assessed as part of the review of the leniency scheme as requested by the Stortinget by decision of 13 April 1999 to be carried out by the Government. Of course, the identity of the members of the jury must be known for the purpose, including: in order to assess whether there is any inhabile in the case. However, it is regrettable that the press publishes so much personal data. The press should tread carefully, but it is not certain that the ban on identification is the best solution to the problem. Transparency in the justice system is an important part of democracy, but it is opposed to the consideration of the jury members on the other side. The jury members and their details should not be in public focus, the jury should work as smoothly as possible, and it is questionable if jury members are subjected to additional pressure as a result of press reviews. As an intermediate solution, it could be assumed that only the names of the jury members were published, so that the place of residence, the profession and the place of work were not made known. However, Norwegian society is relatively small and transparent, and in very many cases it will not be very difficult to obtain a person’s home address when his name is known. Most people would not normally have previously had a request to protect their home address, so this would not be a proper solution. The problem therefore poses a problem for legislators to deal with difficult balances between the need for the protection of jury members on the one hand and the need for transparency in the judicial system on the other. I will follow developments in the future carefully, and if it turns out to be necessary, I will look into whether the legislation should be amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e827	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I understand the answer so that the Minister of Justice takes this issue seriously. Otherwise, I agree that such detailed publicity can reduce recruitment to the jury system, so that in the future, we can risk getting a narrower selection of jury members than is the case today, with the consequences it can have. I must also add that I have received feedback from jury members who feel that this detailed disclosure can be and is unpleasant. This, in turn, may mean that the jury does not have the necessary time to carry out its work, which it should certainly have in such important matters. That is why it is very important for a person to take this issue seriously and look at it further. I therefore hope that action will be taken before it goes too far. I would like to receive a feedback from the Minister of Justice about the time he sees himself to possibly put in place regulatory changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e838	In my reply, I did not give any conclusion in the reasoning about what to do in relation to the dilemma that the representative raised, and I do not do so in the additional answer either. That's why I can't say anything about the time. I perceive both the seriousness and the commitment of the question raised, and why it is important. I have tried to comment on that by reasoning about it. Because I think we're facing a number of dilemmas. I have to take those dilemmas with me. If it turns out that we do not get the protection around the jury's work that it should have, I have to reserve the right to come back. But I have no conclusion about it now. One relationship I took up, and that's that I have the full right, like everyone else, to express myself in the public space. I have brought some kind of caution in relation to the media's handling of jury members and their practical work situation. I'm standing by that statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e843	I perceive the answer so that the Council of State had not concluded in any way, but my supplementary question went on: If there is any basis for making changes, what time frame is here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e848	As I said, the government has been required to go through different aspects of what we can call the jury system, and we will. It is a work we have started, and I can't now say anything more about when we want to finish it. There are various questions raised to the Government on the part of Stortingen. But the commitment that the representative here has shown, I'm taking with me. I would like to repeat once again that I am listening seriously to the concern that the representative has raised, without my having drawn any other conclusion than that we are sticking to the system that we are now following and practicing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e856	‘In the 2002 state budget, full components of sterilisation were adopted. In the country’s hospital, mass cancellations of sterilisation are now reported. In particular, women report bans after the excess has become NOK 6000 in order to obtain sterilisation. Will the Council consider the reintroduction of reimbursement for sterilisation, based on the fact that so many do not see themselves able to carry out sterilisation with the excesses introduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e863	In the examination of the 2002 budget, the bulk of the population joined a proposal from the former Labour Party Government to introduce self-payment for sterilisation in our public hospitals. The State payment previously made to hospitals through the outpatient tariff system and through input-driven financing has therefore ceased with effect from 1 January 2002 in accordance with the decision of the Stortinge. Full self-payment at the total cost is only introduced for the sterilisation of men, which is subsequently charged for the maximum own payment of NOK 1268. For women, half of the self-payment is introduced, i.e. that the patient is charged an own-payment of NOK 6079, which is equal to half of the actual cost of the intervention. In cases where the woman is sterilised while hospitalised for other treatment or cause, for example: in the context of birth, there is no reason for the hospital to claim self-payment from the patient. I am aware that this introduction of self-payment has come quickly to many, and see that it has led many patients now to withdraw from agreed hours for sterilisation. The consequences of such a reduction in the degree of sterilisation and the extent to which it will be achieved once it has been incorporated are still uncertain. I have therefore asked the Social and Health Directorate to monitor this development carefully. The purpose of this is, inter alia, to: to see if the decrease in female sterilisation continues or if this is a temporary reaction. There may be reasons why some patients should be sterilised, e.g. to avoid further hospital treatment or intervention at a later stage. In the context of the transition, practical judgement must be exercised. I would therefore like to mention to regional health companies that in this judgement there is a vigilance to ensure that patients in the treatment process are not exposed to unreasonable solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e877	I believe that the Minister of Health and I have a parallel view of how pregnancy can be avoided in ways other than through abortions. There is every reason to believe that those who are allowed to sterilize do so because they have already had the children they want, and that through sterilisation they want to avoid getting pregnant again. If this results in a number of people who want to be sterilised not being sterilised, it is reasonable to assume that some of them will be able to become pregnant and thus get unwanted pregnancy – that abortion can simply be an alternative, which I consider to be very unfortunate. The discussion of borderline drug treatment and non-medical treatment has led to this kind of excesses. But if the consequence of this kind of high percentages would be an increase in abortion rates, does the Minister of Health see the enormous concern in it, and that, as an instrument, one can have low proportions of sterilisation in order to prevent such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e884	It has never been such that it has not been a factor in sterilisation that it has been a tool to bring down abortions. On the other hand, it is clear that access to prevention, including access to sterilisation, is an important tool in avoiding unwanted pregnancy and abortion. That is where the representative, Mr Ballo, and the Minister for Health, have all the same interests. The mission I have given to the Social and Health Directorate is to closely monitor this development, among other things. See if there should be such a development. And if that's the case, it's clear that it gives cause for serious thought and reaction. I would also like to ask the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health to look at the need to establish a regulatory framework that captures the women who are being sterilised for medical reasons, for example. as a result of many abortions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e891	SV went totally counter-productive in relation to sterilisation, while we went against the high excesses introduced by assisted fertilisation – we went for an excess of around NOK 23 000 to NOK 24 000 for three attempts of assisted fertilisation. I want to bring forward another problem related to it with peculiarities now. Also in the case of assisted fertilisation, a significant number of cancellations are reported in Norway and there is a significant increase in the implementation of treatment abroad, especially in Denmark. Although I would like to stress that SV in his proposal also had peculiarities, they were therefore lower in assisted fertilisation. But if the consequences of such high proportions of services are that we are at risk of losing professional environments in the public domain in Norway, does the Minister of Health also see where the concern about such high excesses in relation to assisted fertilisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e898	I want to remind the representative of Ballo that he was actually one of those who were most positive to the proposal for increased excesses in artificial fertilization when the proposal was presented by the previous government, and that at that time, as far as I recall, he paid particular attention to the priority of health care. We must not forget that the background to these proposals is that these interventions through two Wage Selections and discussions in the field of valuation have been regarded as low priority healthcare. This is one of the first attempts we make to lift out in a public political debate and deal with some priority issues in healthcare, and I think it is quite important that we do not let it out of our sight. Then, of course, we'll look at how things work and follow it. However, there is nothing at all to suggest that the trade unions in Norway about artificial fertilisation should disappear because those who receive this treatment are required to be compulsorily self-employed. On the contrary, it is my clear objective that we should have this professional environment, we should have this offer, and it should be researched in Norway in this area to develop the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e916	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e923	‘In recent times, there have been questions related to the future distribution of aid in the Afghanistan war zone. The press has referred to a research report from Chr. The Michelsens Institute, which warns against a massive injection of funds for the reconstruction of the country after 20 years of war and natural disasters. What will the Council of State do to correct the assistance in such a way that it is effective and does not undermine the chance of stable and good development in Afghanistan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e930	The government emphasises that assistance to Afghanistan builds on the political process and the peace process. The report from Chr. Michelsens Institute, which was commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is an important contribution to the planning of Norwegian aid, and it points to a very central issue. It points to important issues that we know from, for example: East Timor and the crisis there. The government does not aim to enter into the current situation with bilateral state of state aid. It would put too much pressure on Afghan capacity. In addition to the use of multilateral channels, i.e.: The UN and the international banking system, we will build on past efforts by non-governmental organisations, among others. The Church's Emergency Aid, the Afghanistan Committee and the Red Cross. During the recent Tokyo reconstruction of Afghanistan, a total of 1.8 billion dollars were pledged for 2002. The Afghan interim regime has very limited capacity. Furthermore, human resources in Afghanistan are depleted, institutions are in disintegration, and the economy is fragmented. Due to this limited capacity of the Afghan authorities, coordination will be crucial. At the same time, it is also necessary to ensure Afghan ownership and management of the reconstruction work. There is a very close link between coordination and Afghan ownership. The government will use Norway’s leadership in the Afghanistan Support Group to work to ensure that assistance is as effective as possible and in line with the needs of the Afghans. We will also work to promote close coordination on the landside – among UN organisations, multilateral development banks, bilateral actors and other actors, such as voluntary organisations. A joint donor fund for the reconstruction of Afghanistan shall be established. A fund will support coordination and facilitate the follow-up of aid to the Afghans. We hope that this will enable the capacity problems on the Afghan side to be dealt with. The Reconstruction Fund shall be administered by the World Bank in cooperation with the United Nations Development Programme, the UNDP, the Islamic Development Bank and the Asia Bank. Drying over two decades of conflict has led to a precarious humanitarian situation. It will be necessary to continue humanitarian aid in parallel with longer-term development measures and direct support to the temporary administration. From the Norwegian side, attention will be paid to seeing humanitarian aid in the context of peace and reconciliation measures, human rights and long-term development. Of specific measures, we would like, inter alia, to: assess support for administration, mine-related measures, repatriation and reintegration of refugees. Social sectors, in particular the education and human rights of girls, will also be given priority. Other relevant projects will focus on water resource management and food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e951	I would like to thank the Council of State for a helpful answer. Several, including the Council of State itself, have pointed out that the only thing that can ultimately control and replace the warlords in Afghanistan is a strengthening of national institutions. The alternative is that one still has a dominance of warlords within a federal state, divided by ethnic and religious differences. One of the dangers facing you today is that the rich countries in the world will only provide relief and short-term assistance. On the other hand, a national solution requires a long-term perspective and a maintenance of the involvement of the donor countries in addition to the short-term and necessary emergency aid. It becomes so decisive that international aid must support the national efforts over a longer period of time. The problem today is that OECD countries are giving less and less money in aid, and it is now the lowest in 30 years. Can the Council of State and Norway influence the OECD countries to provide more in long-term assistance and thus reverse this negative trend, so that countries such as Afghanistan will have a simpler transition from short-term unaid to long-term national development?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e960	The representative Osmundnes' reasoning is really holding. It is a reasoning that we fully share in the Government, both the importance of strengthening the national institutions and that this is the prerequisite for a transition and stability towards long-term and sustainable development for Afghanistan. We in the Government also agree with the importance of focusing on long-term measures. There is always a desire from many donors to be part of short-term humanitarian emergency aid, with the flag of top and high cigarette orientation — about. At the same time, it is forgotten that the long-term measures need to be put in place. It is not quite as attractive to advertise it. But in this situation, we have seen that even though we want better donor coordination than we have had so far, it is still such that it gives the conference held in Tokyo, made it visible that many countries are now preparing with reconstruction assistance and with long-term assistance. So we actually have a situation that means that many donor countries have understood the point. We are hoped that there will also be money, because the promises are given, also the promises of reconstruction assistance and long-term help. But it always remains to be seen if the money is coming at the right time. There are many who have no reason to hit their breasts, and there we want to be watchful.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e967	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. In Mexico this spring, there will be a conference in which to discuss questions that go on how to lift people out of poverty. The UN itself has said that by 2015 the number of those living in absolute poverty should be halved. The conference should be a very good starting point for the Council of State and the Norwegian Government to point out that it needs to be worked for is what goes on in the long term in relation to assistance. Does the Council of State believe that it is possible for the Norwegian Government to make a turning point at this conference, so that the rich countries and organisations that have the ability to do something will actually go in and look at long-term solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e974	I am pleased that the representative Osmundnes is addressing the Conference Financing for Development, Financing for Development. This will be one of the main crossroads of international development policy. It will be the test whether the international donor communities are able to provide sufficient commitment resources to meet the development goals and the thousand-year targets that we have all agreed on. Let me give you a little positive feedback in that context. A preparatory meeting and preparatory negotiations were concluded this weekend in New York, and it shows that it is currently moving towards an agreement on a final document that also contains binding wording. This is at least a step in the right direction, so we don't get a big North-South conflict at this conference, which is a prerequisite for driving the process on the right track. Of course, we call on the OECD countries to follow good formulations with real resources here too. Let me say that although the OECD countries have reduced their assistance, as statistics show, there are now some countries that are reversing the trend. It's promising.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e987	«We have recently heard disturbing stories about young girls and boys with immigrant backgrounds who must flee from their parents because of violence and killing threats if they do not follow the will of their parents in the choice of ectema. Violence and abuse are also an increasing problem among Norwegian young people. The Socialist Left gave strong leadership in the budget to prioritise projects and research aimed at the sexualisation of childhood in Norway, gender and gender identity. Will this be followed further in the Research Council?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e994	The starting point for the question is a serious situation for a number of children and young people in Norway and their families. The public debate has been strongly influenced by this over the past week. Norwegian society has both the right and the obligation to protect young people who are under parental compulsion in matters of engagement and marriage. No one should be forced to marry against his will. This is enshrined in Norwegian law and in international conventions. Violence and abuse are an increasing problem among Norwegian youth too. Without going into figures and differentiation, I will refer to the action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency, which was presented in 2000, and will be implemented over a five-year period. It shall be updated annually with any new measures. In particular, I want to focus on one of the actions in the plan, which is the implementation of the MST, Multisystematic Therapy method, across the country. This is an intensive, time-limited and family-based provision for young people characterised by serious behavioural problems such as violence and drug abuse. Feedbacks indicate that the method produces very good results. Some of the question relates to the sexualisation of childhood in Norway. The Nyborg Committee, which the Ministry of Children and Family now follows up, describes and problematizes how the body has become part of the consumption culture. The committee proposes, inter alia: media businesses and media organisations should review their ethical legislation in relation to children and young people, including in relation to body, body and sexualisation issues. Finally, on the research effort: I will address the question of this kind of knowledge needs with the Norwegian Research Council. I will do this on the basis of the fact that the Ministry of Children and Family already supports the new research programme on gender, where such issues will be addressed. Furthermore, I can inform you that as a follow-up to work on behavioural problems in children and young people, a centre for study of problem behaviour and innovative practices is being set up. To date, we in Norway have had no overall environment in charge of research into problem behaviour among children and young people. The Ministry of Children and Family, together with other departments concerned, has therefore taken the initiative of setting up a dedicated centre for this affiliated University of Oslo. The aim is for the Centre to conduct method development, research and training in new methods. 10 to 12 researchers, in addition to practitioners responsible for implementing new methods, should be associated with the new centre in order to achieve the necessary breadth and competence. Sociology, social anthropology and psychology will be relevant subjects, and cooperation should be established with these institutes at the University of Oslo, in line with other professional environments in different parts of the country, in order to ensure link to primary and continuing education. In addition to the research directly available to the Ministry of Children and Family, I am also aware that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is currently implementing the continuation of the IMER programme, International Migration and Ethnic Relations. Gender perspectives and research on the situation and social participation of women are one of four priority areas of research. The generation perspective will also provide useful knowledge in areas with significant research needs, such as family, well-being and migration careers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1017	I thank you for a good answer, and I am glad that there are so many projects going on. We didn't get a majority for this in the budget, so we hope now from our side that these are the signals that a stronger effort. We discussed this issue in the Nordic Council yesterday, in the welfare committee. This is a cross-border issue. I asked the same question that I have now asked, to the Minister of Cooperation Svein Ludvigsen yesterday, and was told that he wants to address this with the Minister of Children and Family Affairs. Therefore, I would like to ask an additional question: Will the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, on behalf of Norway, be a driving force for research and project efforts to focus on these issues also in the Nordic Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1024	The answer is yes. In fact, the Minister of Cooperation has already brought this up with me early this morning, when we went to work together. So the answer is yes. I'll mention a little more about the new Research Council programme. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Children and the Family provide funding for a research programme on gender. The programme shall include, inter alia: fund research on human roles, various forms of sexuality and identity formation, interrelationship between sex and multiculturalism, gender and globality, gender-based injustice and infringement at home and in other parts of the world. I will have a meeting with the Norwegian Research Council as early as 12 February, and I will then address issues relating to gender research and ethnicity. Also in the Nordic Council of Ministers, I will ensure that we have a debate and, if necessary, new proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1031	I thank you again for a good answer, and I am grateful that what I asked you yesterday is already on the agenda. We also need to see this in the context of the pressure and impact on children and young people through advertising, the media, the Internet and computer games. There's a lot of discussion going on. There are different research results, and they crack. We were into this about Christmas times in relation to computer games. What will the Minister for Child and Family Affairs do to put this on the political agenda to a much greater extent, and what instruments will the Government implement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1038	The question of question time is a very comprehensive question, so it takes too long to provide good answers in all areas. It is in the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee – for which we are now preparing a plan – how this should be followed up. Maybe it's primarily where we'll be able to answer the question of commerciality directed at children, advertising directed at children. At least I can promise that it is a high priority matter within the Consumer Area of the Ministry of Children and the Family to follow this up in a good and constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1049	‘In the draft consultation dated 1 November 2001, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research proposes to remove the provision that teaching at universities and higher education institutions should normally take place in Norwegian. How will the Government ensure that Norwegian is maintained as a fully usable and working language in all areas of society, including education and research?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1056	It was the previous government that sent this proposal, dated 10 September 2001, at the hearing of a draft amendment to the Law on Universities and Higher Education, as a follow-up to the report on quality reform by the Storting. When the provision that the teaching language is normally Norwegian was proposed to be repealed, it was intended that the institutions should build up a technical offer in English and, where appropriate, other languages for both Norwegian and foreign students. This is a wish also expressed by the Stortinget – and by a global committee – in the handling of the notification. The opinions show that part of the hearing bodies is critical of the proposal and believe that the responsibility of the institutions for strengthening Norwegian language culture and maintaining and further developing Norwegian professional terminology should be legalised. Other consultation bodies support the proposal and see that the provision may prevent institutions from building up satisfactory professional offers in other languages. The question of the possible repeal of the provision is now under consideration in the Ministry. During this session, the government will promote a proposition for the Grand Duchy with proposals for amendments to the Law on Universities and Higher Education, and the issue of the law-making of the teaching language will be addressed here. I am concerned that the wording of the law cannot be seen to prevent internationalisation on which there is a broad consensus. On the other hand, it is also an important task for universities and colleges to work to preserve and further develop Norwegian professional terminology and strengthen Norwegian language culture. I think the institutions we're talking about here, in fact, will continue to be this responsibility conscious, regardless of which solution is chosen in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1067	I thank the Council of State for the answer so far, and hear that she says something about the government in a way that has not made any provision in relation to this yet. This passus came into the law because the Stortinget decided that universities and other educational institutions had a special responsibility for developing professional languages. My question is whether the Council of State can answer what the law might say about this, if the Council of State believes that universities and colleges have a special responsibility in this area to develop a professional language – a Norwegian professional language.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1076	I agree with the representative here that these institutions have a special responsibility for Norwegian professional terminology and for developing Norwegian language culture. It is also clear that Norwegian is most likely to be the common language of teaching. So this is more of an appropriate consideration in my opinion. We must not have legal provisions that prevent what we are also engaged in, namely to achieve a greater degree of internationalisation. I think Norwegian students need some teaching in other languages, especially English, in our internationalized society. There have been examples of this in recent newspapers, for example: in the field of medicine. We also have a desire to attract students from abroad, and then it is clear that it will not be that easy if all the teaching takes place in Norwegian. Here I think we share the purpose in ourselves, and then there are questions about finding an appropriate way to legislate or not legislate on this. And it's quite right as the representative suggests, the government has not yet concluded on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1081	State councils mention the medical study. Here in Oslo, in the ninth semester, all teaching is to be done in English – between students and teachers and, in fact, also in relation to patients, because much of the teaching is patient-oriented. Now most of the literature they read in the medical study is in English, and the medical students actually master English very well. My question is: When the students know English very well, wouldn't it have been better in the ninth semester of the medical study to train students in communication in relation to the medical language, and could they do so in Norwegian, so that the doctor-patient dialogue can be strengthened in a way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1090	These are the kinds of questions that I think the Council of State should not interfere too much with – especially after we have implemented the quality reform, where the institutions are supposed to be freer and more responsible. I don't even think I have the competence to judge exactly how the studies are going to be conducted. But I personally think it makes sense to get good practice in English in this subject, simply because we live in an internationalised society; they also have to meet a lot of patients who live in Norway, with whom you may have to communicate in languages other than Norwegian. How the institutions choose to put this up, I don't think I'm going to have any very firm opinions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1101	‘Schools may use textbooks with advertising in education at any time. Advertising funding for textbooks in Norwegian schools will be a new practice and will change the school's value and ideological basis. Does the Council of State see no concern in the use of textbooks with advertising aimed at children and young people, and will the Council of State take the initiative to ban advertising-funded school material in primary and secondary schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1108	I would like to point out that the Education Act does not prohibit advertising in textbooks or other teaching materials. It is the school owner, who in Norway is mainly municipalities and county municipalities, who are responsible for assessing the quality of textbooks. The current law and regulations do not require the Ministry to carry out any quality control either with advertising funded or with other textbooks. With regard to my views on this, I base the Sem Declaration's clarification that the school should not become an arena for marketing and commercialisation, while this should not prevent the development of close and good cooperation between school and business, which has a broad upturn in this house. But if we are to take municipal autonomy seriously, we must also trust that municipalities and county councils are as responsible as we national politicians are. With regard to issues relating to the legalisation of a ban on advertising, I would like to refer to the work that is now taking place in the follow-up to the position of the Nyborg Committee in NOU 2001: 6. This is for treatment, mainly in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, but of course the Ministry of Education and Research will also be involved in the work, and at this stage I am not prepared to draw any conclusions from the proposals in this position that the Government must decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1119	I want to thank you for the answer, but I'm not satisfied with it. We have a society that's changing, and it's very important to deal with and be up to date with the things that happen in society. And it has been in many ways the Council of State has been in the past. We have a society where we are bombarded with advertising – both in the street, in the media, on the Internet, on TV, through games – wherever you are, and it is more and more targeted at children, and especially against young people. And advertising works, everyone knows it. An example in one of today's newspapers shows that 50,000 people have eating disorders, and this is a growing problem. The Nyborg Committee says, among other things: the school must be guaranteed the possibility of appearing as a free zone for commercial influence in children and young people's lives. ‘Frisone’ is a very strong and important concept that has been used. I would like to ask the Council of State: is there any concrete action the Council of State wants to take to prevent advertising from entering the school arena, as it now appears?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1132	We have a society that's changing, and we're going to deal with it. But I expect that the representative Jensen does not believe that we should do an unprofessional treatment of a public inquiry. That investigation has just been ordered in the light of the societal changes that the representative Jensen here refers to, and I expect that she will assume that we are dealing with it seriously. That means I can't jump to conclusions now. There is a proposal for a ban on advertising in textbooks and teaching materials – in primary school properly – and that is, of course, a proposal that we will then consider. But let me just say that the proposal is not straightforward. Firstly, we once had a central approval system for textbooks. It was lifted. The initiative was taken by the previous Bondevik government. The previous government lived very well with it. It does not mean that there is no control over learning material. The point is that this is left to the school owners, and so it's essentially municipalities and county municipalities, where it's politicians of exactly the same calibre as us, and you should think that we should also be able to trust that they can assess this as well as we could. There are also other aspects of this that need to be assessed, but we are therefore taking it in the order to be taken in the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1137	I thank you again for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that the right of self-determination of county and municipality is very important, and that it is very important to maintain and strengthen it. But my question doesn't matter. It is a more general question I am travelling, and as the Council of State says she will go on to the Government for treatment, and that one will discuss when the Nyborg Committee's setting comes up for treatment. The Council of State says that she wants to deal with the Sem Declaration, which is the platform of the Council of State, and which says that it is particularly important that schools do not become an arena for marketing and commercialisation. I hope that the Council of State will follow up the question. So will I.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1146	I don't think the school should be an arena for marketing and hard commercialization. But let me just say that there might be some sliding transitions here. Personally, I think there's a little difference in a little ad for Cola or for dictionaries, to take one example. We have the Internet, it's not that easy to remove the advertising from there, and we want students to use the Internet more. We want the students to cooperate more with the business community. Let me give you one example. In many communities, young people move from the countryside because they don't even know what the local corner stone business is doing. School-business cooperation leads to their gaining knowledge of it. Often they become in the countryside, and the company gets easier to recruit young people to the company. It could be that you could imagine a collaboration between the kind of companies and the local schools, which could mean some advertising – I don't know if it's so very dangerous. In addition, I also think that advertising related to teaching materials also needs to be seen a little in conjunction with other types of influences that students are exposed to and that may well be so dangerous. In any case, we have to consider this seriously, and we're doing it in the context of the Nyborg Committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1158	«On 9 December 1987, the Stortinget approved the Askøybro project. The Ministry of Fisheries's examination of the application was authorised to build, inter alia. under the condition that alternative routes from Hjeltfjorden to Herdlafjorden and beyond to Bergen Hafen were ensured. The bridge is too far-reaching but without such an alternative route. The responsibility for the case has been transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Fisheries. What is the status of the case, and how will the Council of State ensure further progress in line with the decision of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1165	When the main plan for the Ashøy Bridge was approved by the Road Directorate on September 24, 1986, there was a solution on the bridge height of 62 metres and an alternative route over the Herdlaflaket and through the Nau. The Bergen City Council passed a decision on 28 October 1985 which, in effect, accepted the main plan. The approval of the Ministry of Fisheries, which was necessary for crossing the Byfjord, was granted on 12 January 1990. Of the terms and conditions that were imposed, among others: that alternative sailing across the Herdlaflaket should be completed and ready before work on restricting or limiting movement in Byfjorden was started. Through the planning process up to a concrete legislative proposal, it was made clear that there were protection interests in relation to bird life that were affected. In St. prp. No 1 for 1994-95, the Ministry of Transport went in order not to excavate the sailing trail over Herdlaflaket because of the protection interests. The majority did not object to this. The Board of Directors of Bergen and Bergen and Omland Hafenvesen invited the State Road Administration of Hordaland to explore an alternative route through Skelelangersundet in line with the initial assumptions for, inter alia, depth and width. On this basis, the State Road Administration of Hordaland has initiated and developed a pre-project for a new route. According to this, the total cost will be approximately approx. 300 million. kr, with an accuracy of plus/minus 25 pst. This pre-project has been assessed in the Coastal Directorate and is now under assessment in the Department. Given the overall size of the project, it is desirable that there be a good basis for a decision. I think that's central, so we don't repeat the process again. The Ministry's preliminary review shows that there are some ambiguities on the basis, and the Ministry therefore assesses whether there is a need for further investigations by the Coastal Authority before final decisions are taken. In particular, it is necessary to clarify whether an impact assessment needs to be carried out in accordance with the rules of the Planning and Building Act and whether the relevant municipalities will require the preparation of the regulatory plan for the action. Once it has been clarified, and we have completed the assessment in the department, I will return to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion with information on the further progress in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1178	I thank you for your answer. So it's almost ten years since the bridge was built and put into service. The construction of an alternative route for Bergen port to remain an open port without altitude limitation has not come much closer to a solution in these years. Many have come to realize that guarantees have been given from various political groups that Bergen would receive such a route. In my opinion, when the matter has been settled without sinful progress, it gives an impression of obstruction against the intentions and decisions at the bottom that have been made many years ago. The Council of State and the Government should now ensure that the progress made by the government on this subject for Bergen – and, in fact, also for the West – is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1189	I understand the impatience, but at the same time I would like to remind you that this council has only been in the department of approx. 100 days. The matter came early on my table, and Bergen Right has been on me almost every day. Several meetings are now to be held with implicated parties. But I would like to stress that, based on the preliminary impression of what is now done, it seems that there is a need to do more thorough work, and that it is possible that we need to set up a working group to carry out a fully-fledged project. If that becomes necessary, we also have to take inwards that this is going to take some time. A planning period of one to two years is not uncommon when we look at the scope of this project. In this case, it will be possible to establish a new route to Bergen in a two-year perspective at the earliest. But we now have to complete these assessments first. However, I would like to remind you that the matter has an economic dimension that far exceeds the annual budgets. In 2002, 35 million were allocated. NOK for fairway measures, and we are now talking about a project that is currently costing 300 million. kr plus/minus 25 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1196	At least the view of the costs is disputed. The problem has also been updated in recent years. Otherwise, I am very happy that the government is now cleaning up the drawers and finding out old things. This is a matter with a lot of dust on it, and that should actually take priority in the cleaning work. Over the years, many forces have built up a position for Bergen as an entrance sport for cruise ships visiting Norway, and especially the fjords of the West. We are now getting into a situation where we get a lot of rejections from operators and shipping companies and have to give a lot of rejections to operators and shipping companies who not only see that they don't get their biggest ships into Bergen, but who actually start asking questions as to whether it's at all worth putting cruises in our direction of the world. That would be very regrettable. The construction of a clear-sea route is an investment in infrastructure. It is the state that has the money, and that is why the state has to take responsibility, and the state has to take the bill. In my opinion, it should be done outside the ordinary budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1205	I agree that a lot of cleaning is needed in drawers, and that this is a matter on which there is dust. But at the same time, I think we must be able to agree that it is necessary to have a good basis for the decision to be taken, so that we do not go into a new desert migration, with new dust plagues. My position is therefore that we should press this. I'm going to have meetings with the implicated parties and authorities connected to the Bergen port in the future. We need a good foundation. But at the same time, the basic material, as it is on my table now, shows that there is a relatively small number of vessels that are currently having problems with the entrance below the Ashøy Bridge. But I understand that the problem with cruise ships and the future is something that we have to face in advance, and therefore I also see the need to keep pressure on the matter. So my summary is: we're in the process, and it shouldn't be on me. But at the end of the day, there's also going to be a question in the Great Britain about priorities in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1215	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘According to the newspaper Fisherman, Scottish fishermen have maintained that they have dumped large quantities of haze and sail the fish on the Norwegian side of the North Sea because they do not have quota. What action does the Council of State intend to take against EU countries to put an end to this madness, which in no way can be called resilient housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1224	Norwegian authorities in general, and the fisheries authorities in particular, are very concerned that sustainable management is also being observed in fisheries. The need for and the need to be responsible for the harvesting of marine resources is highlighted by the Ministry of Fisheries at all times, even when we participate in national and international bodies. Dumping of fish in the North Sea is not in accordance with Norwegian legislation or with a general Code of Conduct for good behaviour at sea. From time to time, we become familiar with claims related to irregularities in fishing, including claims that fish dumping should have taken place, as the applicant also refers to. These are serious claims which will result in strong reactions from the Norwegian side if the claims can be verified. However, the Norwegian authorities do not have evidence that dumping has taken place in the case addressed by the representative Solholm. This limits our ability to respond to those responsible for possible dumping, and we can only respond to detectable breaches of the legislation. This does not mean, however, that Norwegian authorities take lightly on the allegations of dumping, and Norway has started good cooperation with the EU, including in particular. to be able to bring this undead to life. Satellite tracking of fishing vessels over 24 metres has been introduced in cooperation with the EU, which, in my view, will be a particularly useful tool in further efforts to prevent marine irregularities, as the representative Solholm here refers to. The question raised is also relevant in the discussion on a draft ban as opposed to a draft directive. Norway is one of the few countries that have a draft ban, while the EU has a draft directive. We strongly disagree with EU policies in this area. We have also made this clear to the European Union on a number of occasions, and we will continue to do so. The claims for dumping of fish in the North Sea by EU vessels are addressed to the EU on different occasions. As long as the ships are not taken on fresh work, neither is the EU able, or willing, to do something on the occasion of the case. It is also possible that claims are made on the other side of the road, where reference is made to Norwegian fishermen dumping fish when considered appropriate. But in both cases, it's important that you do something fresh, and you have proof that you can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1241	I asked what the Minister for Fisheries is going to do. As I interpret the answer – by the way, I thank the answer – the Council of State does not really consider doing anything more than what he has done so far, and it seems to me that I am too passive. We're in a situation where more fish species in the North Sea are now threatened, because one may not have been able to sustain themselves from quota allocation, etc. If a person is not willing to take a force now – and I think that is actually one should when Scottish fishermen according to the newspaper search have admitted that they have dumped – at least one should at first try to verify whether it is correct, or if it is not correct. In any case, it should be a primary objective for Norwegian government powers to investigate this. In addition, I think it would be too passive if you were just going to tell the EU that they have to stop now, and that says one year after year, and then nothing will be done. Will the Council of State try to verify what is now stated in the newspapers that Scottish fishermen have admitted to dumping large quantities of fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1250	Firstly, it is not right that we have a passive attitude towards this. The problem as such is so serious that it is central to any debate with the European Union in which we deal with resource management in areas for which we share joint responsibility. We have e.g. in the North Sea, strict regulations are in place in accordance with the agreement. We have difficult resource allocation negotiations, for example at the moment. on coal, which is precisely the basis of a threat to resources. Then this is with illegal fishing so absolutely an additional threat. But I would like to stress that when this matter has been raised by my side with the Coast Guard, they repeat, as I also say here, that it is absolutely necessary for the sinners to be taken on board in order for them to react. When this happens, relatively high fines are given both to the skipper and to the shipowners in the form of catch withdrawal. We have followed this up in relation to the Coast Guard, but have come to the conclusion that in this particular case it is difficult to get any further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1257	I thank you again for your answer. It gets so bad that the council and I don't share my view of what is being active and passive. I still think the Norwegian authorities are too passive in this, because this is important. I believe that Norway and Iceland, which should be a partner in this matter, actually have power here. We are so big, we have so much resources, and we have spawning grounds for the vast majority of fish stocks in the area where the EU, Norway and Iceland have negotiated agreements, and maybe we should think about threatening the EU, maybe we can get Iceland with us, because if we don't take this which is so damaging to the resources, then no agreement will be reached. Can the Council of States think of using that means of power, because I think that means of power would perhaps be understood by the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1266	I think it's important that we see here that, to the extent that we were to use powers that are not anchored in the law, the counterparty would be able to use the same means of power against Norwegian fishermen. I think it is important that we maintain that here there must be law and international legislation to be applied. But to illustrate again that we are not passive about this, it is decided that KVSØR will be transferred from 2003 on a permanent basis to a North Cape class coastal vessel with helicopters, just to increase monitoring and to be better able to take those who break the rules, including in terms of dumping. So this is what we have to press; this is a topic that both the European Union and we are concerned about on every occasion. I promise, on the basis of the pressure from the representative of Solholm, to intensify this criticism and this monitoring further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1279	I have the following questions for our Minister for Fisheries: ‘After the Minister of Fisheries’s visit to the port development destination and information on the port development in Utgårdskilen on Hyler on 21 January, there is optimism in fisheries circles. Nevertheless, despite a great commitment, South Norwegian fishermen have lost considerable rights to fishing. For example, for the most relevant group, the North Sea trout vessel quotas are reduced to 100 tonnes per year. vessel. What will the Council of State do to enable South Norwegian fishermen to obtain a legitimate share in the quota allocation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1288	First I want to confirm that there was a positive meeting of the Council of State with the people of the fishing industry out in the Utgårdskil at Hyler. I am inspired by the optimism and belief in the future that the fishing environment there showed, and see it as important that the distribution of resources takes place in such a way that this part of the coast too will have a safe and good future. When the Ministry of Fisheries regulates fishing, overregulation is not uncommon. This means that the sum of the maximum allowances allocated to the vessels is greater than the quantity that can be fished by the group. It has been done this way because you know from experience that not all ships are exploiting their quotas. This year's quota of herring in the North Sea and Skagerrak is unchanged from last year, so the total has not changed. This year, as in the previous year, the coastal group may fish 7000 tonnes of North Sea saithe. The quantity of distribution is, as I underlined, unchanged. There's nothing shifting in the priorities in that way. In 2001, all coastal vessels had the opportunity to fish up to 400 tonnes of herring, while in 2002 the quotas will vary from 60 tonnes for the smallest vessels to 250 tonnes for the largest. The maximum quotas are otherwise in line with the recommendations of the Board of Regulators, so we have a professional basis for the decision we have made. In 2001, 127 vessels participated in this fishing and 13 of these vessels fished over 70 pst. of the total quota of the coastal group. Here's the core of what's the question. This, in my opinion, is not an appropriate distribution within the group. I therefore saw the need to reduce over-regulation in order to make the distribution between vessels more even in 2002. As a result of the reduction of over-regulation, the maximum quotas for herring by the coastal group in the North Sea and Skagerrak in 2002 have also been reduced compared to last year. The allocation of the group quota between the number of participating vessels in 2001 gives 55 tonnes to each of the vessels. In my opinion, the year’s regulatory framework, with a reduction of the maximum quotas, will help to increase the security of each fisherman and each vessel for its share of the group quota. This will ensure the operational basis for more fishermen and vessels than for last year's regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1305	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's not only the herring Oslofjord and Skagerrak fish focus on, it's also mackerel. Here it is problematic because the Ministry laid down the conditions for participation without taking into account the addition of the Fisheries Team that vessels which have not delivered 5 tonnes in one of the years 1998, 1999 or 2000 must have been involved in mackerel fishing for two of the years 1998, 1999 or 2000. The consequence of this condition being set aside is that many fishermen in the Oslofjord area fell out of the ordinary mackerel fishing. They must now relate to a maximum quantity of 5 tonnes of mackerel, which is calculated for fishermen who have fallen out of the scheme and are largely part-time fishermen. Will the Council consider lowering the threshold for participation in mackerel fishing, so that the fishermen of the Oslofjorden are given greater opportunities to participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1314	The problem now being addressed is well known, not only on this part of the coast, but generally. There is a problem in the regulatory context of delimiting participation, because a high level of participation naturally affects the profitability of the industry. In this way, a limited resource has made it necessary to restrict access. This has been done in several fisheries, not just in this context, on the basis of participation in previous years. That is not, in my opinion, the basis for transforming the regulation that is in place, but we will be open every year to assess the access criteria that are being used. I insist that it will be necessary in the future, whether we are talking about mackerel or other resources, whether we are talking about this part of the coast or other parts of the coast, to limit access precisely from the need to increase profitability. If you don't, everyone will lose. Getting profitability so that year-round fishermen get a good basis for income, recruitment and value creation on land in the form of industrial production is a guiding factor for the work I use in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1321	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As an Eastfold representative and interested in what is happening in Oslofjorden and in Skagerrak on the fishing side, I have recorded the fact that over many years there has been dissatisfaction. It is believed that there has been discrimination in the allocation of quotas to Southern Norwegian fishermen. I remember that a few years ago, it was probably at the beginning of the 1990s, there was a debate here in the hall. There were several magnification representatives from different counties who got involved, among other things. in the case of cod quotas and the allocation of recruitment quotas for cod, where South Norway was discriminated against by virtue of the fact that none of South Norway received quotas north of 62th latitude. This is an objective that should be taken into account in the further allocation of quotas, I believe, so that there is no discrimination. I expect the Council of State to believe that all fishermen should have the same opportunities initially to ensure their existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1328	I can hardly take responsibility for what may have been done before my 100 days in the department. I am just concerned about ensuring the operating basis for fishermen in this area as well, but it will be difficult to do so if I would follow the reasoning of the representative Hedstrom. He criticises that we have changed the regulation, which last year meant that only 13 vessels took 70 pst. of the herring quota. Now we're trying to change the regulation so that more people are guaranteed a better operating base. But if everyone's going to get there without any limitation, it's going to be even smaller on every ship. At my discretion, this is of the kind of problem that gets hurt no matter what finger you cut into. Now I think I've cut myself into the smallest finger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1336	«Many apprentices have a very strenuous economy. One student contacted the Advance Party and stated that he would make NOK 40.40 per hour and NOK 6 500 per month. In order to work financially, the student must work at least 10 hours overtime per week. With overtime, the student is paid NOK 10 000 gross per person. month and pays 27 pst. in taxes. Is this a policy supported by the Government that will promote the recruitment of practical vocational training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1343	It is not difficult to sympathise with that apprentices and others in education who are in a difficult economic situation, but we need to look at what the apprenticeship system actually is, and also look at what governs the rules around it. The Training Act states: «The vocational training normally covers two years of training at school and one year of training at company level. When training in an enterprise is combined with value creation in the enterprise, the training may extend over two years.» And elsewhere in the law it says: ‘The apprenticeship is an apprentice with the rights and obligations arising from laws and collective agreements...’ In principle, then, the time that the apprentice is in a business can normally be divided into two: a period of training and a period of value creation. Wages and salaries receive the apprentice only for the value creation period. The time of training and the time of value creation may vary for different subjects, but is normally divided by one year per subject. The terms and conditions of employment of the apprentice during the value creation period are regulated by collective agreements in the various sectors and sectors. The apprenticeship system is known as part of the secondary training. The distribution of pupils between the professions and the general professions has been about the same in recent years and is largely satisfactory, although some basic and secondary courses could have benefited more applicants. The number of apprenticeships available is also largely satisfactory, although for some subjects there may be a ‘mismatch’ between the provision and demand of apprenticeships. In this respect, I have recorded that some industries have problems recruiting apprentices. So to the extent that wages are the cause of these problems, it is the collective bargaining partners in the sector or sector that are responsible for doing something about this. In central government, the pay and working conditions are governed by a ‘Special Agreement for apprentices in the country’ concluded with the main associations and the State of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. This special agreement follows the usual tariff period and is to be renegotiated until spring. To date, the level of pay of state apprentices — largely — has been at the same level as that of apprentices in other tariff areas. Therefore, there is no reason to believe that these pay conditions hamper the recruitment of apprentices to central government. For the sake of order, let me also draw attention to the fact that the State Loan Fund for Education has its own rules for loans and scholarships for apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1366	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Recruitment may like it, but there's going to be a little bit of a debate. What is important, however, is that apprentices with a normal working time in the business phase receive a gross salary of NOK 6500 per month. Apprentices living in central areas where the cost of living and trees is absolutely highest are in serious trouble because of this when tax is also deducted. And what you're left with is 10 hours per hour. a week in overtime or the social office, and there is something strange for the Progress Party and me when, in order to become a skilled worker, we also need a one-year training as a social client. The Minister would like to look at this issue in relation to tax rates, the Loan Fund and the social office, which is quite topical for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1373	I can in so far do nothing more than what is provided for in the Training Act, and it states explicitly that the rights and obligations of the apprentice that the employee derives from the laws and collective agreements. Of course, I can have great sympathy with apprentices who, like many others, perhaps through the collective agreements, have not been paid what they deserve. A lot of people don't get it. But I can't do anything more about it than say that these are relationships that the social partners need to be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1378	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I expect that we will meet on this very field on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1383	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1388	Next question, No. 14 is from the representative Olaf Gedrem to the Minister of Labour and Administration, but the President cannot see that the representative is in the Chamber. On the other hand, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is in the hall, and he is given the opportunity to ask his question, no. 15 to the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1394	I will then be allowed to ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions: ‘The Landsföreningen Landsföreningen Rechtfahrt voor Taperne has a difficult financial situation. This one has gradually deteriorated. It is difficult for the association not to have a certain predictability for financial support. The State budget allocates funds each year to grants for the allocation of funds to capped associations. 614, heading 70. In this year's budget, 39.2 million are set aside. krones. Will the Council of State be able to ensure the association's adequate support quickly?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1403	The Landsföreningen Rechtferd for Taperne was founded in June 1995, as a continuation of the ‘Action Justice for the Losers’. The Foundation is a nationwide stakeholder organisation with the aim of improving the life situation of the losers and facilitating conditions to prevent them from becoming more losers. The Foundation receives enquiries from individuals such as: have had problems with treatment at social services/social services, lack of schooling and mispositions. According to the Foundation's figures, nearly 48 000 people have contacted the organisation since its inception in 1993. The Foundation has also committed itself to the work on the situation of war children. The Foundation Landforeningen Rechtferd for Taperne is one of several non-governmental organisations and foundations representing disadvantaged groups and which have received grants from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health from the State budget. 614, heading 70. In addition to State aid, revenue is essentially based on the membership quota. Since 1994, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has provided financial support for the operation of the Foundation. The supplement has increased considerably, and the last two years, i.e. in 2000 and 2001, have been granted an annual grant of DKK 800000. This amount has been agreed with the organisation to meet their predictability needs. In 2002, the Foundation is applying for 1.5 million. kr for operation. Administrative responsibility for funds on the cap. 614 item 70 has been transferred to the new Directorate for Social and Health with effect from 1 January 2002. Against this background, the application for 2002 was forwarded to the Directorate for Social and Health for treatment. From the Directorate, the Ministry has been informed that the National Association of Tapers Foundation will receive a preliminary grant for 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1416	I would like to thank you for your answer. It's not that often we in this room have the opportunity to give praise to each other, but I feel the need to do that now. What was my important point in the question was that the foundation needed a little quick help. This has helped the Social Minister to get the association, and the Minister of Social Affairs is to be commended for it. What my supplementary question will have to be is whether the Minister of Social Affairs has come up with some ideas about how the State budget system, which, of course, follows annual appropriations, should provide a somewhat more predictable framework for these associations. Most people have rent contracts going on, they have bills that are due at regular intervals, and then you get this time apart around the turn of the year, where a new budget is first to be adopted, and then in a way, the system is going to be able to get the payments in place. Now the Minister of Social Affairs has taken a good step in this matter, but has the Council of State considered anything in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1425	The National Association of Tapers is one of many associations and foundations that address applications for financial support, and I have also had meetings and conversations with a lot of them already. The issue raised by the representative Hanssen has also been presented by them. What can be in a way the most practical and straightforward approach is that it's not just an annual payment, but that it's interval, so you kind of get something to start the year with, and that you also have conversations about predictability in relation to operating. But it's a little bit about the device on the application, about the purpose of the organisation, the foundation or the association, and also about having a conversation about how to actually operate in relation to the target group that we're jointly interested in having a good attitude to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1432	I thank you once again for your answer. I look forward to the Council of State working on the lines she was now sketching, and of course I am at the disposal of a cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1437	Olaf Gedrem has arrived in the hall, and we go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1444	‘The Regulation on the work of the paediatric population was amended with effect from 1 January of this year. The Labour Inspectorate interprets Section 8 of the Regulation as a ban on young people under 18 years of age from using motor cases, engine cleaning cases, axes and cleaning knives. In my opinion, such a practice of the regulation is unnecessary string. The consequence of this practice is that young people under the age of 18 are prevented from working with forest remediation and other forestry work where these tools are necessary. Will the Council of State take the initiative to encourage the practice of the Labour Inspectorate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1451	No, I don't want to, because I think this must be due to a slight misunderstanding about what happened from 1 January. Now the question concerns many types of tools, but I'm going to mention in particular the rules relating to motor cases, or chainsaws, which it seems to be called more precise. The use of such cases involves clear hazards and has been specifically regulated. From 1980 we had a separate regulation on the use of chainsaws, and according to this regulation you had to initially be 18 years old to work on such a case. However, young people between the ages of 16 and 18 could do so if they were supervised by an adult, a skilled person and were adequately trained and informed about the hazards of use. From 1 January of this year, there is a regulation on the work of the children and young people regulating the use of chainsaws by children and young people and the other tools mentioned in the question. This regulation implements an EU Directive of 22 June 1994 on the protection of young people at work. In Section 9, the regulation contains a list of work equipment which prohibits the working of young people under 18 years of age. Engine chainsaws are not mentioned in that listing. However, the provision has a general prohibition clause in Section 8. It states that persons under the age of 18 shall not carry out work as ‘exceeding their physical or mental performance’ or work as ‘proposing a risk of accident which it is reasonable to assume that persons under the age of 18 cannot recognise or avoid due to a lack of awareness of safety or of little experience, training or practice’. The Directorate of Labour informs them that they consider that the chain of the engine chain has a high potential for damage by the fact that the chain of the case is not shielded. The use of chainsaws therefore requires attention in terms of safety, maturity, experience and exercise. The supervision considers that the prohibition of work in Section 8 of the regulation may include the use of chainsaws, but the directorate at the same time considers that the regulation must be understood in such a way that it does not impose a general ban on work on chainsaws for young people under 18. Employer's obligations before putting people under 18 into work, to assess the risk of the work to be done. This risk assessment shall include, inter alia: include equipment and accommodation of the workplace and workplace, work organisation, youth level with regard to training and instruction. If this assessment reveals that the work is of such a nature that it is not too risky in relation to the requirement of Section 8, the work will be allowed. In general, it is assumed that the work on motor chains will be affected by the ban if the young person has not been trained skillfully by a person with a forest background. In the case of the other tools mentioned in the question, motor scaffolding, axe, lye and cleaning knives, the employer must also assess, in relation to working with such tools, whether or not young people are at risk, but these tools are initially considered to be significantly less dangerous than motor chains. As can be seen from this point of view, young people under 18 years of age may continue to participate in work on forest remediation and other forestry activities, and they may use the tools used in such work, including motor chains. The authorities only require the employer to assess the risks associated with the work and take the necessary precautions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1473	I thank the Minister of Labour and Administration for a good answer. I think there was a necessary clarification in the exchange of words that has found its place. There is an impression in the districts that this new scheme made it impossible for young people to participate in such activities as are described in the question. The answer given was clarifying, and I interpret it so that it is not a general ban on the use of mentioned equipment and tools, but that it must be used discreetly under the responsibility of the employer. If this is a correct interpretation, I thought it was satisfactory. Otherwise, it would be regrettable if young people of the named age group, who are a very important recruitment group for agriculture, were to be deprived of the possibility of normal travel and work both during education and, not least, during holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1480	The interpretation is what the representative hopes to do, to put it that way. The purpose here has not been to make the rules more stringent or different than they have been before, but it has been to design the regulation differently from a different principle. It is not intended that there should be any net intensification. But at the same time, let me make it clear that the requirement for the employer to ensure that the use of these dangerous tools by young people under the age of 18 is done safely has been there and is still there. It's very important that that requirement is maintained, and that it is actually observed as well. But it has not been meant to get any tightening of the requirements in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1487	I thank you again for your clarification. In any case, I on my side – and I expect that there are many people around the country – will be very interested in reminding me of this interpretation. My understanding was that it was becoming a perception that this was going to be difficult or almost out of date and forbidden. So I am very pleased with this answer, and I hope that the Labour Inspectorate and other bodies associated with the ministry in this sector will do their part to disseminate such correct information. Otherwise, I would like to take advantage of a general comment on the number of writings we get from the EU, that Norman, as a crumb in the Government, would like us to have a popular, a liberal and a good fit for these when they are going into the Norwegian legislation. Otherwise, we risk getting a stream of new prohibitions and regulations that will act as a home instead of their actual purpose: to suit the individual and promote efficiency and well-being in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1494	I can join the last one. Having said that, I think that the way the new regulation is designed is actually better for the users and the authorities than the old one. But it is clear that any change in the principle of the way a regulation is designed can create uncertainty if there is also a change in content. And that's well what might be one of the most important things: as we're going to adapt the regulatory system to an international regulatory standard, there's a need to put a lot of work into information about what's changing in form, and what's really changing. We attach great importance to this information work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1499	The president would like to thank Victor D. Norman for staying in the hall, so that Mr. Gedrem got an answer to his questions. We're going to go to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1508	This question, from the representative Eli Sollied Överaas to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1511	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport/Fisheries: ‘The coastal road network of the three counties south of More and Romesdal has night-optic grids in the form of night-riding. When you cross the borders of More and Romesdal, there will be an abrupt stop for six hours when you arrive at the holiday rental in Folkestad, which is the first of four tribal routes that are night-riding. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the main road network in More and Romesdal will also be navigable with standards and route provision as applicable to the rest of the coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1520	There are eleven national road ferries in the main road network, one in Rogaland and one in Hordaland, three in Sogn and Fjordane, four in More and Romesdal and two in Northernland. The long-term objectives of the operating standard of the ferries are described in St.meld. No 34 for 1992-93, Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan 1994-97. The following targets were given for the parent road connections: ‘The main road connections and particularly the traffic-tight connections shall have at least two departures in each direction each hour in times of traffic. The normal opening time shall be at least 18 hours per. 24 hours. The connections shall also have at least two night departures in addition.’;» In the setting of the National Transport Plan, the Transport Committee strengthened the targets for the regular road links from an opening time of 18 hours per year. daily plus at least two night departures for half-hour departures 18 hours a day and other hourly departures, if special conditions are not different. In More and Romesdal only the connection Festøy-Solevågen has night departures. In Northern Ireland, only Bognes–Skarberget has all-year-old night departures. With the exception of night departures in the Anda-Lote link in Sogn and Fjordane, the other night departures are mainly the result of priorities within the individual counties. I see it as a central objective of transport policy – and so does the Minister for Transport – to improve the accessibility of people and businesses in the districts. Increased capacity and frequency of ferries on the national road network, including night trips are one important measure to achieve this. The Minister for Transport will work through various measures to achieve the above objectives, but standard raising must be adapted at all times to the economic framework and other purposes of the road budget. In this respect, the Minister of Transport would also recall that the state’s expenditure on the purchase of ferry services has increased significantly in recent years, from about 650 million. DKK in 1998 to around 1050 million. 2001 kr. I would also like to point out that the State Road Service is working on improving the efficiency of national road ferries, and that the use of tenders in the ferry sector will increasingly be used. The result of this may be the release of funds for improvement of supply. There can also be an opportunity for More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1540	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I'm glad that he also named Northland, which is in the same situation as More and Romesdal. Before the different states, which the Council of State was in, it's up to the individual when it comes to priorities. But when we're going to jump into our complicated grid, it's the state of the Road Directorate that negotiates when it comes to supply. In the connection between Molde-Vestnes there were 11 400 vehicles in 2001 which had to remain. It's highly unacceptable, it's a high number. I am pleased with what the Council of State says, that both he and the Minister of Transport believe that an important measure is to increase the frequency here. But if we're going to have an increase in frequency, we're going to need more ferries, more gas ferries, and until it depends on extra permissions. Can we expect something to come out of the revision when it comes to measures to open up our connections? Or will the Council of State wait until the budget for the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1551	There are two important prerequisites to meet the ambition of both the Government and the representative of Sollied Överaas, namely to have an even better offer in the ferry sector. One is clearly the country's own priority, and one must not ignore that. The second is, of course, appropriations and budgets. Of course, I will not mention here what may come into the revised national budget, but future budgets will guide the offer that is. However, I would remind you that the state’s expenditure on the purchase of ferry services has increased significantly in recent years, not least because of the delivery of 18 new ferries between 1998 and 2001. There has therefore been no room for offers beyond what one has achieved in the annual negotiations between the State Road Administration and the ferries. The 2002 State budget also does not open up any offer increases. But it is the case that these negotiations between the Road Administration and the ferry companies are under way, and it remains to be seen whether these negotiations will provide room for increased offers. It's too early to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1558	The harsh reality that we experience in the ferry state of More and Romsdal is that when the new route directory comes, it's also about reductions in departures and not increases. Then there's another challenge that I ask the Minister to take with me. And that's what's now happening with the new ferry regulator that the Road Directorate is working on, where we see a new principle where the rates are to be calculated based on the cost of the ferry operations on each route, and the price between the vehicles groups is to be distributed according to the space they take on the ferry deck. Reasonable discretion is replaced by mathematics, and it will have dramatic and negative consequences for the districts. I don't expect the Council of State to give me any answer to that. But I would like to make him aware of the problem. These are the things I hope the department will look at when it's going to be treated politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1565	Of course, the government doesn't have any difficulty understanding the issues that are being raised here, and that's what we're dealing with in many contexts, not least in a ferry-dependent state like More and Romsdal, which until those degrees are broken up by the sea. And in this way it might be appropriate that it is the Minister of Fisheries who answers ferries questions in the district of More and Romesdal. But the points that have emerged here, I will take with me to the Minister of Transport, without me thinking there will be something particularly new in what I bring to her. But we're going to include it in the assessments that are also made, whether we're talking about budgets for spring, or we're talking about budgets later in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1576	This question, from Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Transport, will also be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1579	My question is the following: ‘Since the opening of the Gardermoen aerodrome there has been a significant deviation between measured and calculated aircraft noise in many areas around the aerodrome. Noise insulation is based on calculated noise zones and not on actual measurements. This has resulted in people not getting noise insulation seams if the actual noise level is above the limit values. For some, the noise level has resulted in disease. What will the State Council do to ensure noise insulation for those living with noise above limit values?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1588	The noise insulation application is implemented with background to the conditions given in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 and the aerodrome control plan. Aeronautical noise zone boundaries are calculated according to guidelines from the Ministry of the Environment, based on expected traffic. Control measurements of noise insulation carried out show that the conditions of the authorities are well satisfied for the 205 dwellings covered. The noise zone maps were updated in 2001, and the calculations were based on actual air traffic. The new maps showed that a further 15 dwellings south of the eastern runway are now located within Zone II and therefore will be noise-insulated by 15 March 2002. As the representative refers to, regulations and guidelines are based on calculations and not measurements. Continuous flight noise measurements with Oslo Airport noise and trasé monitoring facilities have shown poor consistency between estimated and measured values for some areas. Therefore, Oslo Airport, the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Defence Building Service launched a project in 2001 together with SINTEF to further identify the reasons for these findings. Results from that work are expected to be available during the first half of 2002. Once the reason for the deviations between measurements and calculations has been clarified, the calculation model will be adjusted, if necessary, and new noise zones could be calculated. Only when it's clear, I'll be able to say if it'll be relevant to the noise insulation of several dwellings around the airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1597	I thank you for the answer, but I am absolutely surprised that there are calculations that will lead to noise insulation when the actual measurements show that one is actually above the limit values. This is very serious for people. We have kids who have to use sleeping pills, and we have adults who get sick from the situation. I don't understand that it shouldn't be possible to rely on what is the actual measurements, instead of one calculating by theoretical models. For me, this is a classic example of how bureaucracy works when it's more concerned with defending theoretical calculations than with what's the real world. I have hurt to see that the Government wants to intervene more closely in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1604	I will tell the Minister of Transport about the impatience expressed by the representative Haga, who is also well known to the Minister of Transport and the Ministry of Transport. That is also why we are now conducting the study that I referred to, so that during the first half of this year we should have established whether there is a basis for further noise insulation, as I explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1609	I still have problems understanding this need for further calculations to get the map to vote with the terrain. The ground is the reality. Minister of Labour and Administration Victor D. Norman stood in Stortinget a week ago and said that the Government was busy creating a government that is not for itself, but for the people it is set to serve. In this case, the Government can actually prove that it is fundamentally concerned about just that, to create an administration that is occupied with the people it should serve, and not by itself. I must say that if the Government is not prepared to intervene further in this matter, it will also lose credibility in relation to what was one of the main points of the Minister of Labour and Administration when he was here in the Storting last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1616	I have trouble seeing how to interpret the answer in the way that the representative Haga here does. It is precisely the Government's will to clarify the noise problems that exist, and thus also to define the areas to be included in any new area with regard to the noise zone. It is precisely the responsibility we take, which means that during this six-month period in which we are now in, we will have the information to form the basis for a decision on possible enlargement. This is, in my opinion, just an expression of a government that is not going to serve itself, but is going to serve those who are affected, as referred to in Norman's statement. I take note of the impatience expressed, but I also feel that it is well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1627	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will also be answered by the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1630	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, which will then be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: «In Hamar Arbeiderblad of 17 January 2002 we can read about irritated customers of the Post Office who have to pay rent for the mailbox after the Post Office has closed and the offer has ceased. The amount is small, but the matter is in principle. Can the Council of State consider refunding unused rental payments to customers who receive the service if they do not want any other service provision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1639	I will give the questioner a brief answer, but at the same time I would like to draw the attention to the fact that sometimes it is good to note that the Stortinges Question Time can give concrete results, because that is a positive answer I should give. In connection with the replacement of the relevant post office by Post in Store, the customer who appeared in Hamar Arbeiderblad received an offer to rent a mailbox at the new Post office in Store or regular mail distribution. The customer chose ordinary distribution, and the rental relationship was therefore terminated by the Post. The post indicates that the company's internal rules in this area are unclear by not distinguishing between customer termination and Post termination. When the rental relationship is cancelled by the Post office, it is understandable that the customer does not find it unreasonable to refund part of the rental amount. Therefore, I can confirm that the Post will meet the customer's claim and refund the rent that amounts to the net sum of NOK 62.50. In line with this, the Post – and then we are inside the principal – will immediately review and revise its procedures and contractual terms for renting out the mailbox, so that similar cases can be avoided in the future. Based on this, I expect that the matter will be resolved to everyone's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1652	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was just the answer I wanted. As the Council of State probably understands, the question was not so much of an economic nature, but more in principle, of course. And when the Council of State says that the Post will immediately review and revise its procedures and contractual terms, I am very satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1659	As I stated, I understand that this customer responded as it did, but I also think that we should give the Post Office credit for the fact that when the problem was revealed, the Post Office was willing to go into it and prepared to convert its practice. I think I tell you that we have a post office and a public office that takes customers seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1664	It's impossible to disagree with the Council of State in that. It was about perhaps a lack of trust in the previous question, but at least the Post Office and my Council of State have full confidence in this matter!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1669	I allow myself to share that confidence with the Minister of Transport!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1677	This question, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1680	I have the following questions: ‘In many districts, rural roads are essential for housing and business. The county councils are responsible for these roads, but the extent of this task is very different. The counties with most kilometres of highways do not have the financial means to carry out satisfactory maintenance. This has led to the fact that many county roads now have such a poor standard that this inhibits housing and business. Would the Council of State be in favour of additional State aid to the states concerned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1689	Since 1986, the funding of county roads has been included in state framework transfers to county municipalities. Until 2000, new funds were also allocated through earmarked grants under the cap. 1320 The state road system, but also these funds were then transferred to the framework grant for county municipalities. The county councils are given this greater freedom to use the money where they think they get the most back for them. In the establishment of a framework transfer for the financing of county roads in 1986, criteria were developed as a basis for the amount to be allocated to each county. Through the treatment of St. Report. No 11 for 1990-91 on the economic situation of major cities, etc. the criteria for the «road contribution» were simplified and have subsequently consisted of the maintenance factors, with a weight of 0,67, and reinvestment, with a weight of 0,33. These criteria are two out of 15 criteria in relation to the total annual framework grant to county municipalities. For the calculation of the factors for the distribution of funds among the counties, which would provide a basis for the same standard of transport, the model used for the distribution of maintenance milder to the national road network in the counties was used. However, some adaptations were made due to the lack of data for the county road network. The counties are free to dispose of these funds within the framework. It is an important criterion and an important prerequisite. I know that there are big differences in the standard on the county road network. The reason for this is, among other things, that county councils have different investment for road purposes. As it is up to individual states to give priority to such efforts, it is not natural to grant additional subsidies to poor county road standards because they have given it priority to others. In St. Report. No 31 for 2000–2001, municipality, county, state — a better division of tasks, a two-part classification of the public road network was notified. The purpose of any two-way arrangement is, inter alia, to: to achieve a more uniform standard on the part of the total road network that is important for the transport function and better coordination across county boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1702	I'm well aware of the division of tasks between state and county councils, but people across the country who don't only have a bad road, but who almost lack roadway, for the reason I've outlined in the question, don't understand that it should be this way. In Troms, where both the state council and I come from, we have 18,000 miles of county road. Of this, 500 km is still without a fixed deck, and 70 pst. of all these roads have a carrying capacity that is far below what is standard in our country and is required by the transport that goes there today. There is no doubt that this inhibits both the fishing industry, agriculture and other industries in this state and in a three-four counties in this country. And then I'm going to ask again, is it not possible to find a way to help these few states that apply, on, those that have this trailing, and that have so many county road kilometers, to get a lift, so that they can get a road standard that makes the districts of these states not depopulated?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1709	First of all, there's a certain connection between kilometers of road and the allocations that are given, so there's no misunderstanding between the counties that have a lot of road and those that have little road. That's the one. The second is that we'll probably agree, the Arnesen and I, that road is one of the most important district policy areas. In my 12 years at Stortinget for Troms Right this has been a matter I have spent a lot of time on. Unfortunately, there was not always the same amount of support to get from certain other parties. I remind you that in the big message «Commune, State and State – a better division of tasks» the Government announced that a two-part classification of the road network should be investigated. Now there is such an investigation, and it has been sent to the hearing. In the report, the Directorate of Roads recommends a two-partly on behalf of municipal roads that include today’s municipal roads and part of today’s county roads, and national roads that cover the rest of the rest of the road network. When one has looked at this and examined it and received a response to the hearing, the Ministry will return to the Stortinget on a separate matter. I think it'll be here that there might be a possibility of a larger resource access, but once again this depends on the future budgets, and there I won't prejudge the events.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1718	Nor will I prejudge a new round of what should be the tasks of the municipalities, county councils or the state. We've just had that, and I actually thought that for a while we were done with it. Is it the case that these poor county roads are to be transferred to the municipalities and that municipalities are to be charged with even more new tasks? Will it then be accompanied by money, so that the municipalities, in the opinion of the Government, can handle this task? Or is it an explicit policy not to bet on the districts that have these bad county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1725	This government has absolutely an ambition to invest in the districts, precisely because a large part of our value creation is going on there. We want to use communications as a strong regional policy tool. So once a two-way street network has been explored, the solution, as the Directorate of Roads sees, is that municipal roads should include today's municipal roads and parts of today's county road network. Here I want to shoot in that it is not unknown for the municipalities to end up with county roads, and it is not unknown for the counties to end up with roads that they would have preferred not to have. But it's a distribution key in terms of allocations related to the number of kilometers of county roads. In the case of the second part, national roads in the county shall cover the rest of the road network which does not enter the county. It is in a way too early to go up this frontier, which roads should be, and which roads should not be, in any such division. The advantage of such a two-tiering is, in my view, better coordination across county boundaries with regard to a well-functioning transport network, and that is what must be guiding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1745	This question, from Karl-Anton Swensen to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1748	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport to be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘New EU rules have come into force in Norway, which through the EEA Agreement will lead to the illegal use of several current ferries. This means that the majority of the ferries have to be built up, which means that the companies have to pay large costs. It's calculated that the cost of this change is going to be 20 billion. krones. How do the Councils of State view this challenge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1757	In 1998, the EU adopted a new Directive – EU Directive 98/18 – for the construction and inspection of existing passenger ships on domestic voyages. It shall apply within the EEA territory. Norway is obliged by the EEA Agreement to comply with this Directive for passenger ships in Norwegian waters. With effect from 1 May 2000, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs adopted the Directive in its entirety as Norwegian legislation. The regulation applies to ferries operating in coastal areas, while ferries in protected waters are not covered. The vast majority of ferries in national road ferries operate in protected waters. The regulation lays down requirements for the phase-in of different measures carried out on board the journeys to which the regulation applies. Deadlines for implementation of the measures have been set. The deadlines are from 2001 to 2010. Investments in national road ferries in recent years have prioritised new buildings for the links covered by the regulation. In view of this, and in view of the deadlines for implementation of the measures, the implementation of the regulation will not, in isolation, have dramatic consequences for the operation of national road ferries. The Swedish Road Authority states that the Maritime Directorate has previously calculated that the economic and administrative consequences of implementing the Directive collectively will be between 500 and 600 million. kr. Only a smaller part of this was related to national road ferries, so here's the dramatic difference in the calculations and what's suggested in the question. It is unclear whether the Directive will have – and, where appropriate, what – consequences for the remaining ferries if the requirements of the Directive also apply to passenger ships in protected waters. However, the state road authorities state that the Directorate has therefore started work to identify the impact on Norwegian car travel in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1768	I, the undersigned, have received two reports from a ferry company in Northern Ireland, for the ‘Stetind’ and ‘Røst’ car ferries, which go to islands in the sea, which give a good picture of the consistency and scope of the legislation. In the period from now until 2006, there will be a number of demands for existing ferries that will cost a lot of money. At the beginning of the period, the first pillar of EU requirements comes. These requirements become so rigid as to prevent day-to-day ferries from being used for their intended purpose, namely to extend the road at sea. Compliance with the requirements will be unrealistic after 2005. We are talking here about enormous costs and the fact that the ships become useless and destroyed as ferries, claims the companies. It can be done, among other things: on new stability requirements at unrealistic costs. There is nothing in the framework of national road ferries that indicates appropriations for these challenges. Will the Government require companies to implement this EU legislation, or will a special Norwegian legislation be established limiting the requirements for existing ships? In this case, rapid clarification will be important, as the control authorities have the same uncertainty regarding future legislative practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1775	I stress what I have already said, namely that Norway is obliged to comply with this Directive through the EEA Agreement. However, we have also suggested that implementation of the measures should extend from 2001 to 2010. It shows that it is willing to have an adaptation time. In Norway, we have a complete national legislation covering the same areas and the same vessels covered by the directive. However, I stress that Norwegian legislation needs to be changed to stricter requirements in most areas in order to comply with the EU Directive. We must also bear in mind that some harmonisation and upgrading of safety requirements should be in Norwegian interest. This concerns the safety of road users and ferries. Crews and passengers will be given increased safety in transport by the ships concerned, including the two ferries to which reference is made. In the future, shipowners and yards will have a more uniform standard to operate within the EEA territory. It should also benefit from the cross-border purchase and sale of spent tonnage. So you can't just represent this as a negative. Not least, it is positive on the part of travellers in terms of safety and safety on ferries has been in focus in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1782	It should be noted that these are ferries in road traffic connections where there are no other alternatives, for example to Verøy, Røst, Train, and I can mention Bolga in the Nordland county. Within farming, fishing and marginal activities there are 100 pst. depending on this mode of transport, in order to get its goods into the market. It may also be mentioned that since a good part of the transport aid system and freight equilibration have been removed, the margins have been disfavored by the districts, especially for those industries. It may seem that this is a conscious government policy to defuse the districts. Is there a risk here to burden consumers with billions of investments to further defuse the districts? Does this mean that we can get some kind of toll financing for the investment needs? Or, in another way, can it be expected that the investment needs in the ferry will be burdened the consumer? The question is: what tariffs will you get in the future? Will it be consumers and businesses that have to bear the burden, or will it be considered to give commercial traffic, business, special arrangements because of the high costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1789	I'm not hiding that I'm a little surprised that you can draw the conclusion that this should be a measure taken to defuse the districts. I have to remind you that I said in my first answer that the State Road Administration has put the Directorate to work on identifying the consequences of this, including economic consequences. I think the questioner ignores the very important thing here, namely that we want to increase safety, precisely because this is a means of transport for which there are no alternatives. Travel with ferries in Norway shall be as safe as in other countries. That is the purpose of this Directive. We must not now present this as if it had a negative consequence. I would like to stress that the purpose of this is to ensure the road users in terms of transport on ferries. I think the questioner ignores or takes too easy on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1800	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Six municipalities in Inner Namdal have had a time-limited pilot scheme for the cancellation of student loans for three years with the last year of service 2001. The aim was to promote migration to the region. The State Educational Loan Fund states that this scheme will not be continued in 2002. Has this scheme been evaluated on the basis of the objective of promoting the move to the region, and what experience has the Council of State taken into account in its assessment of the write-down of student loans as a regional policy instrument?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1809	As part of the involvement of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in peripheral municipalities, a limited effort was started with the partial cancellation of student loans for borrowers who live and pursue a profession in six municipalities in Inner Namdal. The test scheme is three years old and the final year of service was 2001. This coincides with the completion of the edge project, which will be replaced by small-scale community action from 2002. Only now that the vesting period is over will it be possible to say something about the results of the study loan write-down experiment in Inner Namdal. The end evaluation of the edge application should be started now, for example: the outcome of the programme shall be evaluated. The details of what to evaluate are about to be clarified. The evaluation will not be available until the summer of 2002. The write-down of student loans is also included as one of the measures in the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has launched a strategic analysis of the action area, which will also be available during the summer of 2002. Here one will look at all the measures in the zone, among others. subscription of study loans. In addition, let me mention that the Government has launched a review of all the publicly funded instruments aimed at business. The purpose is to assess the device and its scope. This review will take place in the summer of 2002 and is a follow-up to the conversion of the instruments notified in the Government’s Declaration of Accession. Furthermore, an expert committee has been set up to look at the impact of all the different types of government regional development policy and regional policy objectives. The sample shall, as far as possible, both provide an assessment and comparison of the effects of different types of measures. The Committee is expected to present a report by the end of 2003 and an interim report by autumn 2002 on activities affecting businesses and the labour market. I expect these investigations and reviews to provide a good basis for answering the questions asked by the representative Lyngstad. I do not now want to express any concrete opinion on individual instruments until we have carried out the overall assessment. To put it this way: that's a good question asked by the representative Lyngstad, but we have no basis for giving an answer, other than a general view. I do not want to go into what I myself think about the study loan as such. We are now waiting for the evaluation of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1824	I thank the Council of State for the answer. After all, Inner Namdal was designated by government as such an area of action to stop the relocation. A number of projects are under way, including the write-down of student loans. I find that the scheme is being terminated, or not continued, both before the evaluation has been carried out and before the evaluation of the measure has been carried out. When this measure was launched, it was based on the experience of Finnmark and Nord-Troms. There we clearly see that the write-down of student loans has been important in recruiting people with higher education into the region. If tests are to be adequate, they must be able to function over time. A period of three years may appear to be too short to give good answers. In addition, the Storting must be given feedback on the effects of the trials in order to have any opinion on their effectiveness. And: How will the evaluation of the experiment be reported back to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1833	I think it is quite natural that a critical view is taken of the fact that trials are completed before the evaluation is carried out. Now it is the case that the premises for this project were laid when it was started three years ago. The premises were then that the entire bet was to be evaluated after the end of this three-year trial. In retrospect, you might wonder about the wisdom of not adding up to a mid-term evaluation and seeing how things worked, and having a different duration of the experiment itself. At the same time, I would like to say that it is often a political mark when we do such things, and sometimes it costs evaluations almost more than the measures. In general, I think you might want to think a little bit about it before just using tests as a marker case without thinking about how to continue. There is a lesson that I think we should be able to take off these projects, and that we should bring with us when we possibly start new trials later. But the premise and the framework in relation to the continuation of the work were thus laid down by the previous government. I am now committed to obtaining the experience and impact of this evaluation, and we will see if this is an action that can be used in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1844	I'm glad the Council of State is teachable. However, if we are to find targeted measures, we must also be willing to engage in experimentation. While it is clear that some of the experimental activities can be seen as political markers, such activities are precisely to test the effectiveness of the instruments. And there was reason to believe from the experience of Nord-Troms and Finnmark that this was an instrument that could work. But it's a problem that the quality of the trials and bets may become somewhat doubtful when the trial periods are too short, and because one has problems with experience transfer and learning effects, and perhaps also because one just looks at the wallet and resources instead of seeing that this is also related to legislation. The Prime Minister announced this weekend that the county council would have more responsibility for the regional policy instruments, and I think that is positive. But there has to be consistency between money and legislation. My question to the Council of State will be: Is the Council of State willing to use the Test Act and dispensation opportunities more widely as instruments of regional policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1853	Governments are committed to using the Test Act both in district policy and in terms of modernising and improving the efficiency of the public sector, with responsibility down to each municipality. We have previously received a unanimous increase from the Right that we should have many attempts within the delegation of powers and get various parts of the sectoral legislation embellished. Unfortunately, the list of municipalities that have applied for has been very small. So here, in many ways, it's a desire that you locally find out more trials that you want to carry out. We are concerned that if you are able to meet the test law requirements, we should be able to admit most of the tests, even during a period when there may be only an attempt to be able to embellish the law in the future. I think district policy here is balanced with this delegation, because the delegation is part of the modernisation programme for the Government. I agree that we can use trials in this work, but then we also need to know how to use experience from that experiment. And it's clear that when you finish your experiment without it being evaluated, you might want to think through that process at the start of the experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1870	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1876	I will address the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The travel industry is in despair of being deprived of the possibility of further investment in winter tourism after the Minister for the Environment postponed the implementation of the amendment to the Motor Travel Act so that the tourism industry does not have the opportunity to apply for business with tourists also outside regular scooter loops. What will the Council of State do to improve conditions in order to give Norwegian travel life the same competitive advantage as, for example, Finland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1885	I will first briefly inform you about the rules that apply to the use of snowmobiles in travel today. In certain contexts snowmobiles are permitted for use in the tourism industry, e.g.: snowmobiles may be used without further request for the carriage of goods, goods and staff necessary for the operation of tourist facilities not located on the broken road. Furthermore, the transport of guests to overnight accommodation is permitted far away if necessary to maintain the operation of the site. Motor vehicles may also be used for the refurbishment and preparation of ski slopes and ski slopes. Snowmobiles are used for pleasure driving without a self-contained utility that is not permitted. Thus snowmobilesafari is not permitted under the applicable law, except in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, where such operations may take place in special recreational loops. In my letter of 11 January 2002 to the Presidentship of Stortingen, I informed about my decision not to make changes to the national regulations for motor travel in the fields and watercourses now. The amendment that has been at the hearing has been met with a number of counter-representations. It is important that the consultation process carried out is taken seriously. Once important objections have been raised, it must be appropriate to take these into account. In particular, there are some problems that the proposal could cause in relation to the enforcement of the legislation. The letter to Stortinget stressed that under the previous government, an experimental system was set up with planned motor traffic management in eight municipalities. The experiment will test whether this model can provide better predictability, less workload and less illegal movement. The experiment has a framework of three years and will be evaluated by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research. It is right to gain experience from the experiment before entering into amendments to the national regulation. The decision not to amend the regulation now will not be reconsidered until the trial is completed. In the case of Finnmark, the current regulation provides for the possibility of setting up recreational loops so that they may also be of interest to tourists. However, vulnerable areas must be taken into account and there can be no open loops reserved for travel life. In this context, Finnmark has previously stated that this loop is large enough, and that if new loops are to be laid out, earlier loops should be closed. In fact, many people place great emphasis on the fact that untouched nature is an important part of the tourist experience in Norway and that it can be a priority in itself. In this context, I refer to what a working group appointed by the then Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy stated in the 1996 report on Travel, Nature and Environment: ‘Engine-based travel should not normally be part of an environment-based travel life. Therefore, the Group considers that travel life activities that generate unnecessary outland motor travel should be avoided.’» It is an opinion that we should also be able to base in the year 2002 on Ecotourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1907	I think it is very sad that the Environment Minister will not take inward that while the grass grows, the cow dies. It is too late to wait three years for the project to be completed, and then it will be evaluated and then a new consultation round will be held. That's not good enough. The competition between tourism companies in the North Calotte is very tough. Different framework conditions, especially between Norway and Finland, have resulted in travel businesses moving from north Norway, from Finnmark and four miles across to Finland. Today, workplaces and overnight stays are located in Finland, while the companies involved in tourism belong, among other things. in Kautokeino, which has 15 pst. unemployment. Does the Minister think this is the right business policy? And: How does this harmonize with the Prime Minister's hundred-day chronicle in Dagbladet, that the Government comes to us and says that you in the districts must be creative and take advantage of nature's advantage? In this case, it is not possible to take advantage of the special local advantages, including: with visits by tourists to reindeer flocks, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1912	When Norway spends tens of millions on marketing us as a tourist nation, among others. to the rest of the world, emphasis is placed on the stillness and pristine nature. 100 years ago was 50 pst. of Norwegian nature wilderness, today it is 10 pst. I think we'll do a lot in the future to protect about the beads we have. It is with great amazement I see that the Workers' Party is now joining forces with the Advance Party in an attempt to liberalize for full moulds in relation to motor travel in the outland. Is it the case that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have found each other in environmental policy in this area as well? Is it so that the Workers' Party wants roaring scooters around in our outfield? It is also a relevant question to address. It has been absolutely essential for me to review the experience of the pilot project in the eight municipalities only now before drawing a final conclusion. Is it natural to see what this has done before you change the regulation? It makes no sense to start such a test project if you draw the conclusions in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1921	Mr Robertsen from the Right said to the magazine Finnmarken on Thursday 17 January 2002 that ‘Firnde is not in line with developments when he will also limit the necessary driving and driving.’ Yes, it is true that the Labour Party and a majority of the Stortinget have agreed to this type of tourism activity, business, among other things. in District Norway. How will the Minister for the Environment defend the fact that the Minister in this case does not follow up the Court's own proposal in connection with the Innst. O. No 56 for 1999-2000 on the law on changes to the law on motorcycling in land and watercourses? In this respect, the right has proposed exactly the same as the Minister now rejects. In fact, the right went further than the Working Party in that particular setting, for example. on the possibilities of reintroduction industries for guided snowmobile tours. My question is: is it possible to assess a specific organisation for the tourism industry in these competitive areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1928	The representative addresses the question of the necessary activity. As I explained in my first answer, the necessary commercial driving is allowed today. It is also the case that there is a large loop, among other things. in Finnland, where recreational services have been provided. As far as I am aware, individual municipalities have a loop network of 800 km already, where recreation can be done. This can also be used for tourism purposes. But the interesting thing for me is to know if what the representative is saying is the official position of the Workers' Party. Is it the case that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have found each other in this case and will be free in spite of all the counter-representations that have emerged in the consultation round regarding snowmobile driving in the Norwegian mountain resort? The right has not changed its position. What we've said is that we're going to evaluate the project in the eight municipalities that are going to try it out, and then we're going to draw the conclusions afterwards. Would it not have been natural for the pilot project to be carried out before drawing a conclusion on a total slippage here that nobody wants? 85 pst. the Norwegian population does not want any effusion at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1938	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the Gudbrandsdalen there has been more or less continuous activity of wolves in several municipalities since 18 April 2001. This area is outside the management area of the wolf. The situation has now been sharpened by the wolf on 20 January at a.k.a. killed and injured more sheep. The State of Oppland has given birth permits, but this has been verified by the Directorate for Nature Management. How does the Council of State assess the management of wolves outside the administrative area, including legislation and interpretation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1947	As the representative Rudihagen refers to, last year the wolf has been registered and injured by wolves, several places in the Uppland County. The last damage case occurred on 20 January in Heidal in the municipality of Sel. The activity of the wolf near eviscerated sheep further west of the Otta Valley has also been subsequently detected. It's also true that Rudihagen points out that we're outside the administration area where family groups are to be accepted by wolves. Due to the records made, the situation in the area is now being followed up by a specific tracking effort. On the basis of today’s tracking data, it is still too early to establish whether a stationary and re-virtual pair has been established in this area. Furthermore, there are no safe points of view to assume that this is the same harmful force as last year. Although these parts of Uppland are outside the management area of family groups of wolves, it is not the case that the areas in question are always free of wolves. The behaviour of the wolf is such that emigration of young animals from family groups must be foreseen. Outside the management zone, the differentiated management model provides that the establishment of couples or family groups is not to be permitted, while step animals may also move outside the zone provided that losses and injuries do not become too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1956	I thank you for the answer, but I believe that, in the light of what the Minister for the Environment now says, we should focus a little on the management of wolves outside the administration area. In order to achieve understanding and respect for the administrative regime we have, I believe we must have a restrictive attitude to allow wolves outside the administration area. The starting point should actually be that there should be no wolf here, and it was also in a way the intention behind the entire administrative regime to avoid conflicts, especially in relation to grazing animals. In my view – and it might be a little more extreme than what's in the regime – a nearest person should have a standing folding loop outside the administration area. But the problem here, and it also pointed out the Environment Minister himself, is that there is documented observation and damage both in Valdres and in the Gudbrand valley since this spring, and there are also several permits for bottling, but wolves are not allowed. Does the Minister for the Environment think that it is a logic not to grant permission now? I would ask the Minister for the Environment to clarify his view as to whether this is being managed in accordance with the political intentions behind it, whether the legislation is good enough, or whether he finds that there is reason to go in and look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1961	As mentioned above, there are no certain indications that there is an incipient pairing or re-marking outside the management zone for family groups of wolves. During the next month, tracing will be intensified in this area with a view to determining whether it is a stripe or a new pairing. So the policy has not changed in this area in relation to the policy of the government that stood close to Rudihagen, also had at this point, namely that strip animals that are outside the administrative zone are related, and if it ends in mating, action will be considered in concrete terms, provided that there is a sustainable strain within the administration area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1966	It is possible that the policy has not changed, but I want to challenge the Council of State a little on how the policy is managed. Among other things, the local wild game selection has said yes to the felling of the wolf. The county also said yes after an overall assessment, on the basis of the limited killing rights that he has. Does the Minister for the Environment therefore agree that a greater emphasis must be placed on local assessment and local management? This must also be seen in the light of the fact that the regions are currently aware of the pressures and pressures associated with relocation and the need to reduce agricultural transfers. The Minister of Agriculture said from Stortinget’s speech that in the future agriculture cannot be based on dairy farms with 13-14 dairy cows or less. The reaction is therefore strong when the wolf is now allowed to operate in these buildings and damage one before pressing the industry. Shouldn't predator management also be such that it doesn't destroy all optimism and all the in papers in this postpone the agricultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1976	I agree with the representative Rudihagen that this is one of the most difficult areas in which management has been given. The size has decided that we should have a sustainable predatory strain, but at the same time we must have active activities in the field, including: with sheep. In the core areas where sheep and predators are to be combined, this is terribly difficult. It's a challenge. Norway has its international obligations to deal with, and I also have to deal with the Storting decision. But we have promised our own big message about predator management, where we look at the remedial measures we can take. I understand well the farmers in Uppland who are desperate when they find the animals injured or killed. With regard to the specific examples in Uppland, if a re-virtual couple is established, we need to look into the matter more closely, and then, as I said, also consider the measures in question. But as the representative is also familiar with, I have a specific case to deal with, so I can't go any closer to it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-30.ana.ud1504e1991	There is no record.
