ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e28	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Arne Haukvik is dead, 76 years old. Arne Haukvik was born on February 12, 1926, in Sauberad, Telemark. After public high school, graduate artium and commercial gym, in 1950, he traveled abroad. He took a course for foreign students at City of London College in 1952. He then gained useful and versatile knowledge and experience by working, among other things. as a ship's cook, journalist, importer and ship's dealer in the United States. Arne Haukvik had a versatile professional experience. He has, among other things, has been the sales manager of the Norwegian Association, sales consultant of Central Film A/S and action manager of the Norwegian Ski Federation. He has been employed in the Parkvesene and Rusken action in the Municipality of Oslo and has been the market leader in Norsk Rikstototo. Haukvik became a member of Oslo City Council in 1968. He was in the first place in 1979, but was back as a city councilman from 1992 to 1995. He was a member of several municipal polls during these periods and was also a short term member of the Presidency. Haukvik has also had a number of trusts and other public functions. He was Vice President and Chairman of the Bondeungschlag in Oslo for four years from 1959. He was chairman of the sports team BUL for eight years, a member of the board for 25 years and a member of the board of the Bondeungschlaat in Oslo for approx. 30 years. He has been in the leadership of the Bislett Alliance – Bislett Games and Oslo Marathon – from the beginning in 1965. In 1992, Arne Haukvik was appointed Oslo citizen. In winter Arne Haukvik was awarded the HM King's medal in gold, and for his great effort for sport he also received the Honorary Prize of Sport Norway. He has also been a member of the State Sports Council and a member of the board of directors of the Bank of Credit. Haukvik was elected to the Stortinget in 1993, during which he spent a period of time as a member of the family, culture and administration committee. Arne Haukvik was a versatile man with a broad commitment. He's probably the most famous initiator of the Bislett Alliance and Bislett Games. The sport was close to his heart, but it wasn't just a top sport. He showed equal interest in children and young people and their ability to unfold. Haukvik became strongly involved in politics. As a big-time representative from Oslo, he was very concerned about creating good living conditions for people living here. But he saw the whole of politics, and that a difficult thing can create good conditions in cities without simultaneously stimulating growth and development in the districts. Haukvik was never afraid to go new ways. He was very imaginative and could see solutions that others did not find. He had a big intrusion and a contagious mood. Former Stable Representative Johannes Gilleberg is dead, 87 years old. Johannes Gilleberg was a farmer's son from Gudbrandsdalen, born in Ringebu on 1 August 1915. He studied theology and was ordained a priest in 1948. And that's what prompted him to move northwards. In the years from his preselection and until he became manager at Trastad farm in Kväfjord in 1955, he worked as an assistant and auxiliary priest in Hammerfest. His strong commitment to this part of the country was often expressed, not least in his work as manager at Trastad farm. Trastad farm was a central institution for mental retardation in North Norway, and Johannes Gilleberg was a driving force behind the development of care for mentally retarded people in this part of the country. He was the chairman of both the action committee and the main committee for the travel of the North-Norway asylum and the chairman of the construction and planning committee of the Trastad farm for the ten years he was the manager. As manager of Trastad, he studied social care in the Nordic countries and teaching arrangements for mentally retarded people in Denmark and Germany. He did so in order to meet the challenges of Trastad farm work in the best possible way, and to facilitate the conditions for the residents. He had a strong relationship not only to Trastad as an institution, but also to each of those who lived there. Johannes Gilleberg also engaged as a municipal politician in the municipality of Kväfjord. Johannes Gilleberg met as Troms' representative for the Center Party from 1965 to 1977. With the exception of one year in the Administrative Committee, Gilleberg was a member of the Social Committee for all three periods at Stortinget. He was delegated to the 1967 UN General Assembly. Gilleberg was a warm caregiver. This was also given to his co-representatives at Stortinget. He was a strong Christian, but also one who owned liberality and was not insistent with people who did not share his faith. Most likely Gilleberg will be remembered for his strong commitment to the weakest among us. We remember Arne Haukvik and Johannes Gilleberg with deep respect and gratitude and bring peace to their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e80	The representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Jorunn Ringstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the so-called product representative of the State of Akershus, Mette Korsrud, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the remaining part of the mandate of the representative of Julie Christiansen from 9 October to 17 October. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of Akershus County, Anette M. Solli, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e109	Anette M. Solli is present and takes the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on sick leave from 9 October onwards and until further notice from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg on leave from 9 October to 5 November, from the representatives Karin Andersen, Eirin Faldet, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Synnøve Konglevoll from 9 October to 6 November, and from the representative Ola D. Glötvold on leave from 9 October to 7 November, all to attend the 57th General Assembly of the United Nations, Part Two, in New York from the representative Haakon Blankenborg on leave from 9 to 10 October in order to participate, after the appointment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the field of security policy and official state visits to Hungary. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternates for Hedmark and Nordland counties respectively, Grethe G. Fossum and Ruth Olaug Rist, there are applications to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under Eirin Faldets and Jan Arild Ellingsen's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hedmark County: Bent Egil Torp, Helge Bjørnsen and Kent Inge Stenberg RyenFor Møre and Romsdal County: Rigmor Andersen EideFor Nordland County: Karstein HansenFor Uppland County: Reidun GravdahlFor Telemark County: Gunn Marit HelgesenFor Troms County: Knut Werner Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e200	Bernt Egil Torp, Helge Bjørnsen, Kent Inge Stenberg Ryen, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Karstein Hansen, Reidun Gravedahl, Gunn Marit Helgesen and Knut Werner Hansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e205	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e210	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e216	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e233	After consulting the group leaders, the president will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate shall take place over two days, with a total speaking time of 7 hours and 15 minutes, excluding cord changes and 3-minute insertions. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 110 minutes, Right 95 minutes, Progress Party 65 minutes, Socialist Left Party 60 minutes, Christian People's Party 55 minutes, Center Party 25 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Coast Party 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the representative Simonsen be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed to allow access to a sequence shift of up to five lines with replies following the insertion of the main speakers of the party groups and the Prime Minister and three lines with replies after speakers of 10 minutes or more and after the submissions of the Councils of State of any length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e248	After the elections last fall, the country was given a new government. The foundation of that government was the Sem Declaration and 52 written replies from the Government to the Progress Party’s big group. On this basis, a new government was formed with the support of the Progress Party. The declared aim of the Government and the Advance Party was to give the country a different political course, a different political direction for social development from that of the Workers' Party. This promise has been kept by the Government. We've been given a different policy direction, a different direction for social development. Fortunately, Norway does not change completely from one day to the next. Much is good in Norwegian society, and it will still be. But the direction is different, and in our opinion the direction is wrong. Less emphasis is placed on fair distribution and sharing. It's warned about the privatisation and individualization of the population, the privatisation of the school, and it's added to a policy where those who have a lot from before get more, and where many of those who have little, get even less. This is a new direction. It's an unsocial right-wing policy, which we've seen before, and which is something other than what the Workers' Party stands for. Let me do some examples. Today, unemployment is increasing in Norway. Unemployment remains low compared to other countries, but there is little consolation for the almost 100,000 unemployed that there are, on average, more unemployed in countries other than Norway. The unemployed are among the most economically difficult in Norway. The amount of the daily allowance shall be 62 pst. of wages and salaries. It's a low daily wage, a low unemployment rate, compared to many other countries. Nevertheless, the Government chooses to cut the daily allowance of the unemployed. They do so by introducing new day-career days into the day-to-day scheme, by increasing the pay requirement before you can get a day-to-day allowance, and they do so by removing the imputed holiday allowance in the unemployment allowance. Holiday pay is part of the salary of all other employees. When it is cut off for the unemployed, it means almost 10 pst. lower wages and salaries for the unemployed, lower daily allowances. In concrete terms, a person who is unemployed for three months and has an average salary loses NOK 6000 per day. One person who is available for one year loses almost NOK 20 000. And it's people who basically have a low income to live off because they're living off day money. It is a different political course than the Workers' Party stands for, and it is a course we disagree with. But it's a different course than what we wanted to go in for when we were in charge. Another example: miscarriage. Today, if you are unsatisfied, you may have small extra income – which is taxed on, but which you do not have to pay the social security if you have income below NOK 50000. It is important for many who have been born disabled, it is important for many who have some ability to work, for example. human beings with musculoskeletal or skeletal damage, but it is also important for a group that has, for example: rheumatism – a disease that usually comes and goes, a few days you are healthy and other days you are poor. And I know examples of people who for a few days are completely healthy, and who in long periods can be completely sick. They must live a life where they cannot have a permanent job, cannot enter into a binding employment contract with an employer, but they can take some work. They can work some extra guards, and they can do something. Many of these people do today, and they get something paid for it. This scheme will remove the government by saying that now you can only make NOK 5000, not NOK 50,000 as today. It's unsocial, it's a bad social economy, because it reduces the work effort of a group that's completely at the edge of the labour market, that's the unskilled, and it's above all unsocial that some of the people who have the least of them are going to get even less. Once again, there is a different course from what the Workers' Party stands for. The government is absolutely right in that. But it's a course that goes in the wrong direction compared to the values the Workers' Party stands for, about justice and fellowship. Similarly, it is for prostheses. The propensities of blue prescription drugs were removed on 1 October for pregnant and old-age pensioners. It's particularly important for many people who are miscarriage, and it's important, among other things. for minimum pensioners. Now the government wants to reintroduce these propensities and increase them so that for drugs they go from zero for these groups to $1,850. It's double wrong. Firstly, there is an expression of unforeseeableness that no group deserves. The parties to the Government voted in favour of this scheme last year and are on the closest basis to principle against it this year. Secondly, it means increased costs of costs incurred and increased costs for, for example: minimum pensioners and other low-pensioners. And then there's another course. But there's a price in the wrong direction, and the exact opposite of what we proposed in our budget for 2002. The fourth example I'm going to mention is co-consumption versus private consumption. Some of the most important tasks in our society we have chosen to do together. We have said that tasks such as care for children, care for the elderly and education are something we do not leave to the market, that is something we do not leave to the individual's income, place of residence and background, but that is something we are trying as far as possible to ensure that everyone is given an equivalent offer. Therefore, it is organised and financed through the Community, through the public sector. The government adds to a record growth in private consumption and a very low growth in public consumption, in public consumption. Private consumption should grow by 3.5 pst next year. – that’s something like 23 billion kroner – while public consumption is going to grow by 0.5 pst. – it is approximately NOK 1.6 billion. So private consumption is going to grow something like 15 times stronger than public consumption next year according to the national budget. Now there's a lot of reasons why it's like this. These include: real wage growth, employment growth and other good explanations for the growth of private consumption. But the strong difference between private consumption growth and public consumption, where we finance some of the most important tasks, such as care for the elderly, for health, education and child care, shows that a policy where one further stimulates private consumption at the expense of common consumption by providing tax relief is going in the wrong direction. And that's why municipalities are now getting the lowest growth in their income in several years, while private consumption is increasing sharply. Also there is another course, but a course in the wrong direction. The Workers' Party represents a different course from that of the Government. We want a work and welfare policy, in order to secure jobs, to ensure a competitive industry, to stand up for the unemployed – not cut the measures for them, and not cut the day-to-day payments. It also means that we want to strengthen the tasks we do jointly, strengthen the municipalities, so that we can get a better school, a better care for the elderly. And we are willing to both make up the money that is needed, and at the same time make strong demands for the renewal of the public sector, better organisation of the public sector. Just because we want a strong public sector, good organisation of the tasks we do together, we are also strong supporters of this sector being renewed. It's a different course. It's a different policy. So the government has kept the promises it made. But it's a policy that, in our opinion, goes in the wrong direction, and over time, the differences become big. Although from one year to the next they are not dramatic for society as a whole, they are dramatic enough for those who lose a few thousand copies of extra income, or for those who lose 20,000 kroner in unemployment. We have a minority government in Norway. It's nothing new. We've had minority governments for many years. Einar Gerhardsen led a minority government in the 1960s. Odvar Nordli, Trygve Bratteli and many others have led minority governments. The new thing is that we have a minority government without a clear and stable foundation in Stortinget. In theory, this government has a clear basis, in the sense that the Sem-Declaration and the answers from the Government to the party of the Advance Party led to the formation of a government. The leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, said that he did not regard himself as the government's parliamentary basis. But in the debate on the throne last year he stressed that he considered the Progress Party to be the parliamentary basis of the Government. For us, it's a little bit unclear what the difference is on ‘base’ and ‘base’ — it's at least very similar. In any case, the Progress Party has been a father and has had a special role in relation to the current government. The problem is that the Government does not accept its parliamentary basis or its parliamentary basis in the form of the Progress Party, and the Progress Party does not acknowledge their responsibility by setting up a government and joining the Government on the written basis they had. It contributes to increased uncertainty, increased unforeseeability and reversibility, which are not the political system, non-Norwegian enterprises, not the Norwegian people, and not the voters – not least – served because it contributes to ambiguity and lack of clear alternatives. That's why I think we need majority options, either in the form that we get a majority rule, or in the form that we have minority governments that have a clear basis in the Storting. For example, we do. in Sweden with a Social Democratic Government having agreements with parties in the Riksdag. We've had it before in Norway. There might be different solutions. But democracy, the voters and everyone else have a demand that we, as politicians, are able to establish majority solutions that can govern predictably, implement a coherent policy and reduce the unforeseeableness and uncertainty that we now experience in the Norwegian Greatness. Then the question is asked if the Workers' Party is willing to take responsibility. And of course, the Labour Party is willing to do so. We have been and are a party that takes responsibility, but we cannot take responsibility for right-wing policy. Nor can we take responsibility for an adjusted right-wing policy. We can only take responsibility for a policy that has a clear bearing on our values of fair distribution and community. But we cannot take responsibility for a policy we believe is going in the wrong direction. In addition, only discussion or consideration of the issue of the Workers' Party, the opposition, should become the basis of the Government in such an important context as: the State budget, an illustration of the need for resolved majority solutions in one form or another. For what is the meaning of the alternative course, the second course, the new course in relation to the Workers' Party as this government announced, laid down in the Sem Declaration and in the answers to the Progress Party, if the alternative course of the Workers' Party is to be made with the Workers' Party? Then we have the final proof that we have a situation in this big business that requires a completely different clarification from that both the Progress Party and the government parties have so far been willing to give. The Prime Minister sometimes talks like he thinks he's still running a center government that one day can go to the left and the other day can go to the right, and a little back and forth. He's not running a center government. He leads a Right-dominated government that has the Advance Party as its basis, and is deployed by the Advance Party, and which is something quite different from a central government, and he runs a government that has announced other than a course based on different values and social directions than the Workers' Party stands for. That's the consequence of this choice of government obviously has problems to deal with completely. The Labour Party believes that we need a centre-left majority in Norway that can give the country predictability, stability and a policy based on fair distribution and community. The alternative to that is either some form of minority rule with the Right and Christian People's Party, today's government, or more committed cooperation on the right with the Advance Party. Both of these right-hand options are worse than a center-left cooperation, and that's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e283	The representative Stoltenberg continues the black paint he has been working with from the first day the budget was presented. He forgets to mention that there will be a significant increase in psychiatry in Norway. There will be more money for cancer research in Norway and for treatment; there will be more money for hospitals; there will be more money for municipalities; there will be more money to combat drug problems in Norway; and there will be more money to combat unemployment by strengthening the labour market situation. In addition, there is a significant effort to combat poverty. And since the representative Stoltenberg now said that he takes responsibility, there are therefore 90 000 poor people in this country. Does he take responsibility for that too? Then it is that the tax reliefs that he has mentioned, he has largely voted for himself. Of the $10 billion in tax relief, he has voted in favour of NOK 8.7 billion. And it is no wonder that the representative Stoltenberg has done so, because at the National Labour Party meeting it was said that we are now in a situation where increased welfare has to be paid by productive activity rather than higher taxes. That is why, of course, the Workers' Party voted for the tax concessions that came. And my question to the representative Stoltenberg is: if we are going to take him seriously, where will the Workers' Party increase its taxes? What are these treasures? Do they want to reintroduce the fare? Do they wish to reintroduce the investment levy? Do they want more people to pay top taxes, nurses or teachers, or do they need to lower the minimum deduction so that the low-wages pay more taxes? Or is it the alcohol tax to be increased? I'm just asking!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e292	First to the question of whether there is black or white in Norway, good or bad. It is good in Norway for most people. Norway is a good society. I hear that the spokespersons of the Government are still pointing out that the UN is calling Norway to the world's best country to live in. To that I would say that it's completely different values than the values that the Right-dominated government now stands for, that have brought Norway where it is, and that have made us at least one of the world's best societies to live in. It's not right-wing values that have dominated the development of society in the years following the war, but it's social democratic values. And if they're so crazy, it's nice that we score so well on these UN measurements. The second is that although it is on average good for most people in Norway, it is not black paint to point out that when the unemployed come to us and say that they can lose up to NOK 20,000 a year on reduced daily pay with the cuts proposed by the Government, it is serious for them, although most people are doing well. And it's not black paint when misfits come to us and say they have some accomplices the days they, for example, aren't so plagued by gouts. They say it will hit them hard when the government wants to take from them these extra incomes. It is not black paint, but it is to point out some serious shortcomings and errors and that something goes wrong in important areas of society for Norway. Nor is it black paint when we point out that many companies are concerned that the government is doing too little to ensure value creation in Norway. We are going to present our alternative budget with time and time. Then everyone will see clearly what kind of priorities we're making. We voted against removing the dividend tax last year, and we also voted against the relief of the house tax, not least because it gives the most relief to those who have the most. What becomes our proposals in next year's budget, we get to come back and discuss when we present our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e307	Norway is the richest country in the world when we look at the state economy. And according to the rule of action that Stoltenberg has made, the current government began, in reality, to establish that the most important thing in Norway now is to increase the oil fund by 138 000 million. kr. It's the most important thing. That's what you started with. My first question to the future head of the Labour Party and the current parliamentary leader is: Will the Labour Party build on the same principle? Would the Labour Party also want the most important thing to do is to set the increase in the oil fund at NOK 138 billion? Will the Workers' Party also accept that it is not entirely in line with the rules of action – because you have borrowed DKK 2 billion from the 2004 budget, does the Workers' Party accept it? My second question to Jens Stoltenberg is about pension schemes. There has been a constant storm a while from the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and others to get rid of the curtailment of the basic pension that is for cohabiters and spouses, by getting 25 pst. cut in their pension in relation to lonely despite having paid in full the premium to the population's security through a long life. Since 1981, we have been proposing over a two-year period to remove this abbreviation, and we are going to do the same this year. Is it the Workers' Party's principle that they should continue to punish married pensioners by shortening their basic pension by 25 p.m., or does the Workers' Party accept the principle that they should have equal pensions as single when they have paid full contributions to popular security?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e316	The important thing is not to spend NOK 138 billion on the oil fund. Of course, the most important thing is not the size of the oil fund. The most important thing is to pursue an economic policy that ensures work and well-being. That's why we have to keep track of the economy, and that's why we don't have to repeat old mistakes that we know lead to unemployment, major problems and economic backbone after an economic party. That's why the answer is no, the most important is not NOK 138 billion on the oil fund. In addition, the Party of Progress uses the oil money twice. They have double accounting. One day they say that the oil money will be used abroad to buy fighter aircraft, helicopters, police cars, ambulances and many other sensible things. On the second day, the Progress Party says that the oil fund will be used to pay pensions. You can't spend the same money twice! Today, the oil fund is DKK 700 billion. The government's debt to Norwegian pensioners is NOK 2800 billion. So whether you count the totals or the return on current pensions, the oil fund isn't big enough to pay pensions. In that case, the Progress Party cannot both believe that the oil money will be spent abroad, and then believe that the same money that they have bought fighters, helicopters and sick cars will be used to pay pensions. Here, the Progress Party has promoted an excellent constitutional proposal – yes, almost excellent – to earmark the oil fund for pensions. We're going to follow it up to reveal the double accountant Progress Party is involved when they spend the oil money twice. A crown may only be used once whether it is a salmon crown, an aluminium crown or an oil crown, and it should also be understood soon. In the case of pensions, we have opted for a more individual-based pension scheme. That means we're also willing to look at today's curtailment rules. I'll come back to it when the proposals come from the Pension Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e325	Let me start a little unusual and give Stoltenberg honor for what, in my opinion, was a good post. It is quite right that the sitting government has set a whole new course for Norway. This is a strong ideological government, a right-wing government with a Christian People's Party on wheels. It is very difficult to see that the Christian People's Party exists in this government. On the contrary, it is very easy to see that there are strong ideological right-wing councils that want a new course for Norway. What is interesting in this post from Stoltenberg is that there is a new course for the Workers' Party. The post that Jens Stoltenberg now made could not have been kept a year ago. The working party now chooses to focus on the same values as SV has weighted here for many years, namely the values of the community. This is interesting, because it means that there is a stronger opposition to market-based Norway than before. In his years in government, the Workers' Party allowed this to slip gradually over to the right. The Workers' Party has been punished for this, but we are pleased that the Workers' Party may now have found a clearer course, a course that takes care of the interests of the community. What's also interesting, and which is a new course for the Workers' Party, is that you now see more clearly that you can't do this alone. This means that the Labour Party now sees the social democratic parties throughout Europe for a long time, namely that we have to work together, and we have to work together on the left. We see this pattern in many European countries, and we are also pleased with it. If you want to meet the right side, you have to work together to work together to find good solutions. Now there is no great choice until 2005, and therefore my question to Stoltenberg is the following: How does he imagine that this left-center collaboration that he mentions in the article should be able to manifest itself during this period? Does this mean that the Labour Party will now adjust its own policy also in the fields of cooperation, but where other parties have a different political viewpoint?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e336	In a democracy, the voters decide, and then the voters also have the right to choose a magnificence that is not so easy to rule. Of course, all parties could give a simple answer to how to get a powerful, governing and stable government: it's just that a majority voted on their own party. It could be wrong, but at least it could be stable. It is clear that it was easier when the Workers' Party had a majority on its own. The last time we got it was in 1957. All governments, all decisions, all reforms The Labour Party has implemented since we lost the pure majority in the 1961 election, we have done so in cooperation with other parties. So cooperating with others is nothing new to us. I am pleased that the representative Djupedal praises the post, and I can be even more unusually back and say that I commend SV. I believe it is important that parties can cooperate, because when we do not get a majority alone, when we do not get a majority of the policies we in our party think are the best, political parties have a responsibility to cooperate – not just cooperate, but cooperate so that we get a majority in this Chamber, so that it becomes a basis for the policies we stand for. It is a responsibility that rests on us all, and then we have to look for the solutions that we believe are sustainable over time. I therefore believe that a cooperation centre-left in Norwegian policy is an alternative which has realistic opportunities for majority voting and which will represent a policy that I agree with and which is based on values that I believe in. I think it's an advantage that the SV and the Workers' Party find other premises than the storeroom to discuss exactly how we're going to develop this cooperation, and then we're going to come back to it eventually. The way we develop our cooperation, I think we'll discuss the parties between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e351	I must probably disappoint the representative Stoltenberg that I am not going to follow up the rose from the representative Djupedal of Stoltenberg's posts. But I have two concrete questions. The co-operation management has provided a budget in a situation where more and more workspaces are at risk of being flagged. We've already seen the consequences of that budget by saying that companies that have announced that they will fly out have actually said that with this budget they can leave the plans behind. So, the budget is working. So in that area, there's pretty neat conditions that we need. Then the representative Stoltenberg has now spoken warmly about a left-center collaboration and praised SV. The manager of SV said on TV last night that the way they should now finance their good things like school and other things was to take away the investment fee, which we have finally got removed. It was clearly said on television last night. Is the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, in agreement with that priority? And is it the permissive condition to reintroduce charges that we have finally managed to remove? That's the first question. The second question is, what Stoltenberg calls privatization, Christian People's Party and Cooperation Government very often call optionality. In one area of family policy, it has manifested itself as cash support. We have recorded that several in the Labour Party and SV want to remove the cash support, which has made the situation good for the families of children as well. Is it so that the Labour Party now in this new alliance also wants to attack the cash support? And do you want one that way to take away the freedom of choice that the big crowd has actually introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e363	The government has spent almost a year making its budget. Now we're going to spend a few weeks making our budget. But every year, over many years, we have managed to create budgets within a responsible framework, with a good social profile, organised for good value creation in private Norway. In fact, there was a strong growth in employment in industry when we ran in the 1990s. We did it without this kind of unsocial cut for the disabled, for the unemployed and for the others who have little in Norwegian society. I am absolutely sure that once we have gone through the budget, set up our alternatives, we will come out with a budget that has a significantly better social profile and that removes the unsocial cuts that the Government has put in for the unemployed, the unemployed and other groups, and yet we must stay within the responsible framework, in a way that ensures the companies. But I ask for respect for the fact that I will not now state the specific posts. You'll get it when we present our alternative budget. I have several good ideas, actually in the billion-dollar class in sum. But I think that if I start to mention one or two or three of them, the newspapers write that Stoltenberg will do yours or yours. We're going to discuss this first, and then we're going to get back to it. So I would like to remind you that the central parties were unable to provide their alternative budget when they were in opposition the last time. They obviously thought that was a little too difficult. SV has not proposed to reintroduce the investment levy. What they are actually going to propose or not propose, it gets SV to explain and clarify when they present their budget. We're independent parties, and we're going to continue to be. I do not intend to hold the Christian People's Party responsible for the fact that the Progress Party promises SEK 6 billion in aid or many billion in rural policy and agricultural policy, although the Christian People's Party has chosen to cooperate with and base its government on the support of the Progress Party. We are independent parties, but I believe that we are able to arrive at a common policy when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e372	I do not know if I heard correctly, but when Jens Stoltenberg claims that the central parties were unable to present an alternative budget in opposition, I must remind Stoltenberg that the central parties were actually budgetary partners with the government he was running. Jens Stoltenberg was in his speech about several of the major challenges facing us as a nation, both increasing unemployment and increasing disparities. These are central areas. I would like to challenge Jens Stoltenberg on one of them: increasing differences and distribution policies. At the heart of the distribution policy is to ensure that everyone has the same opportunity of education, that everyone has the same opportunity of care, health care, etc. In this work, the municipalities are very central. Without the ability of municipalities to offer their citizens a good school, good care for the elderly and good health services, we will not achieve a fair distribution, nor will we achieve cohesion between groups. Today's situation is well known: municipalities have to cut schools, fill school classes with more students, cut elderly people's care, cut many of their services. When Jens Stoltenberg saw in his post that the Workers' Party wants to do something about this, I would like to challenge Jens Stoltenberg on that very point, despite the fact that the Workers' Party has not provided its alternative budget. What does the Labour Party consider it reasonable to introduce the local government sector in order to address the challenges and problems facing the local government sector? Will Jens Stoltenberg participate in and provide the municipal sector with the €6 billion that KS believes is necessary, or provide the funds for increased pension expenditure that the local government sector is required to set aside? What do Jens Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party consider it necessary that the municipal sector be provided with increased resources to avoid the degradation of the school sector, to be able to avoid the degradation of elderly care and other necessary services?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e383	So for the sake of its interest, when we negotiated with the centre parties in the autumn of 2000 for the 2001 financial year, they did not provide an alternative budget. On the other hand, they made inescapable claims of nearly DKK 10 billion – DKK 1 billion per person. representative of the Left – to remove the investment tax, about the same amount for several others. It was an investment tax, it was a short-term tax, and it was other proposals. These were inevitable demands before negotiating, and we were going to find containment. We sat at the Plaza, and it became an expensive night. When I say this, it's just because I'm wondering a little bit about the slightly perplexed tone of government parties now take when there's inevitable demands in a much smaller magnitude than what they themselves faced us. But done it. You can find another hotel! The throne itself, regardless of government, has limited interest in saying so, while what is of great interest is the state budget. That is why the debate on the throne is easily going to be a budget debate. But I want to insist on my right: we're going to go through the budget and present our alternatives before I explain the details. However, I point out that, year after year, we have managed to have a significantly stronger local economy than it is now, we have had a significantly better social profile – and, of course, we have never suggested in the budgets of the Labour Party that unemployed people lose NOK 20 000, that disabled people should not be allowed to have small extra incomes without being insured. We're going to clean this up, and you're going to see the containment. A lot of that might not be the same for you. The municipalities are going to get more. But we have to make some political choices, and I believe that this government has chosen 12 billion dollars in lower taxes and very little to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e393	The aim of the co-operation administration is to exploit Norway’s wide potential. We will do that by: make everyday life easier for businesses and individuals to increase the freedom of choice of individual management responsibilities for the environment and cultural heritage responsibilities and actions for the weakest both at home and in the world of responsibility for our common security through NATO and the United Nations Norway in a globalised world of education and research in a long-term perspective Most of these overall objectives are widely welcomed by the parties on the Stortinget. It is a strength for Norway as a nation. The discussion of the policy's overall objectives therefore often does not create the major debates, but it is in return for the road choices themselves. It's like in an orientation loop. In spite of the fact that we all have to enter the same posts and pass the same mark eventually, we make different choices towards the goal. In the political everyday life, this is made visible by means of solutions when choosing, for example: competition or monopoly freedom or regulation private or public; The co-operation administration chooses its solutions based on what we think is right. It will be different from what other parties would have chosen. This is why the Norwegian Cooperative Government is changing. It is not difficult to find examples of this precisely after nearly a year of the Co-operation Government. Most people can now rejoice that the competition in aviation has given you and me lower prices. Behind this lies the conscious political choice: removal of seat tax removal of the bonus scheme change of government purchasing agreements The working party and SV were against removing the flight seat fee. They were also not in a rush to remove the bonus points, and they never suggested doing anything about the wholesale contracts. The cooperation government's policy worked; there was competition in aviation, the offer improved, and the prices went down – perhaps not to the delight of the monopolists, but to the degrees of joy for you and me. This is district policy, it's good economic policy, it's good family policy, and it's cooperation government policy. The Cooperative Government will therefore pursue an active competition policy. We're changing Norway, but we're changing Norway for the better, for the benefit of the people we're set to serve. In a world that changes at violent speeds, where products come and go faster than ever, where no one is given a crystal ball to look into tomorrow, it's going to be to set things right so that we can master these challenges, important. This ability to change does not depend on a mountain over the Grefsenåsen, as the poet says. It must be stimulated, and it must be created. In this process, education and research will be important factors for change and innovation. I am therefore pleased that the Government is adding up to a significant increase in efforts in these areas. In this process, the school is important. By increasing freedom of choice and diversity, stimulating creativity and at the same time strengthening the quality of school, we equip students for the future they will face. But if we are to do so, the local freedom of action in school must be increased. In this area, we are significantly changing Norway in relation to what was the case when the Workers' Party was at the rudder and Giske was Minister of Education. He used the stamp “off” to look at and often to apply for fresh oils. In the drawer there were about 40 untreated applications when this government took over, some had been lying for a year and well saw it. Now the drawer is being emptied, the rules are changing, diversity is increasing. It's great in my eyes. Different choices create the diversity needed to achieve a more varied school and a much better school. But that is one thing: the teacher/pedagogue must – in order to return to the briefing cycle – prove that the students reach the posts and finally also the target seal. Whether the student enters the post first or last, from the right or the left, from the top or bottom is less important, the most important thing is that you can prove that you reach the goal. This is why, at the same time as it opens up more room for action for the school, it also wants to introduce a quality assurance system at school, in order to monitor the achievement of the objectives it has set, while at the same time increasing the freedom of individual education and training to pursue its educational activities in the classroom. The co-operation administration is changing the school by opening up freedom of choice for both supervisors and educators. We thus reverse the culture based on circulars and regulations and replace it with responsibility, trust and creativity. We turn the pyramid and stimulate and reward it through, for example. bonuses and demonstration schools, so that they come from below school. So we're increasing diversity, we're getting a different school, but a qualitatively much better school. This will be good for Norwegian students and also good for Norwegian society. During the corresponding debate last autumn, we were all shocked and frightened by the attack on the World Trade Center on 11 September. Thousands of innocent people were killed. We got through this attack to see the true face of terrorism. It was scary. International terrorism is a threat to all of us because no one knows when and where the next attack will come. Therefore, it is important that the world community stands united against this threat and fight it. It has been done by the world community by combating the Taliban regime and the Al Qaida network in Afghanistan. In the light of the United Nations and the Security Council resolutions, Norway has participated and participates in the conflict against terrorism. It was not an easy decision to send Norwegian military into such a conflict, but it was necessary. I'm proud of the efforts they've made, and the efforts they've made. Norwegian military forces thus contribute to international security. They thus also ensure our own peace and security. That is why the efforts in Afghanistan are important to all of us. I am pleased that these measures had broad support in the Storting. But there's still a lot left. The threat of terror is by no means over. But terrorism must not be just combated. It must also be prevented. That is why humanitarian work in Afghanistan is very important. By doing so, we can facilitate the conditions for strengthening democracy in the country and thereby also peace in Afghanistan. I guess it needs Afghanistan. The task is large and will require considerable effort. Norway, of course, should contribute. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will, as it now seems, make a statement in this Chamber on 16 October relating both to Afghanistan, the Middle East and Iraq. In the debate the next day, it will be natural to go deeper into the problems and challenges associated with the situation in this area. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. We're good in Norway. But despite this, there are 90,000 people in this country who come under the term 'poverty'. We have to do something about that. The Co-operation Board has put this on the agenda. For the first time since 1945, a government has presented an action plan on how to solve the poverty problem in Norway. There may be good reason to ask why we in Norway have a poverty problem. But for those involved, it is far, far more important to know what we want and how to do with this problem. I think to know what the left-hand side will answer: tax more and politicians benefit more from the value creation. This has been the Labour Party's response every year. But despite that, the number of poor people has not fallen. When the number increases, could it be that the choice has been wrong? I think so. We must therefore have the will to put in the debate the question of whether general welfare benefits for all, whether you are a millionaire or without work, solve the poverty problem in Norway. Experience so far has shown that it does not. That is why I welcome a general and bold debate on the choice of ways to tackle the poverty problem in Norway. It is desirable to relate to the conversion of the gravitational aid, which has remained unchanged since 1982 and which gives all, regardless of income and wealth, the same amount. I hear the cries – I hear them – that indicate that the welfare state is raging together if this scheme is removed. I don't think so. I believe this scheme – giving everyone, including millionaires and, for that matter, billionaires, NOK 4000 in burial aid – is a good example of the lack of ability and willingness to prioritise targeted, so that we can help those in this country who really need it. Through the poverty action plan, we want to address this problem and do something about it. We want another Norway – there will be fewer poor in Norway and no more. In the 2001 budget, the Stoltenberg government presented the highest tax increase in human memory, about DKr 12 billion. In the current year’s budget of the Cooperative Government, tax reliefs and tax reliefs were made available in total at around EUR 10 million. DKr 13 billion. The only way to remove the investment levy is to facilitate 500 million. kr from 1 October onwards. It's a significant amount. In addition, the elimination of double taxation of dividends on shares, which also means a lot to some companies. These facilitations ensure and safeguard the workplaces. I underline: it ensures and secures the jobs, which in turn is the basis for the incomes of Velferds-Norway. It is important at a time when interest rates and exchange rates have weakened the power of action of the Norwegian export industry. The government points out in the throne that wage developments have come to an end with our competitors. It's been a while. A lower wage growth will improve the situation and will improve conditions for competitive business in Norway. It will secure revenue and, again – back to what I said instead – will also strengthen the possibility of doing something on the welfare side. The government has invited the social partners to cooperate in this. I sincerely hope that you will succeed. At the same time, however, we politicians must also have the courage and the will to take responsibility. We have to do what we can to make the interest rate and the exchange rate fall, so that we can secure the jobs and in the next round the well-being. I know a lot of people have heard this before, but I like to repeat it: the best contribution this room can make in this particular situation is to make sure that in time we adopt a tight budget for this country. This will ensure that interest rates do not rise, which will prevent people in Norway who have difficulties from getting even more difficult by creating financial problems for them. Norway has money on the book. It is, of course, immeasurably tempting to use them. It is, as you know, easy – very easy – to buy friends, or, for that matter, to vote. You can also live by the saying of Louis of the 15th, "After us comes the flood." Our oil wealth has always been in the North Sea. What we're doing now is repositioning this property. It belongs to the nation and hence to future generations. It shall therefore be managed from a generation perspective. Managing a national wealth in a perspective beyond its own time has historically proved to be very difficult. It has certainly — albeit at different historical times — experienced both Spain, the Netherlands and Venezuela. It is therefore a demanding and difficult management task, but it has to be solved. Economic accountability is immeasurably important for the Cooperative Government. In this way, I fully support what the Prime Minister has said, that we do not negotiate financial accountability in this house. We want to pass on to the next generation a better and safer country. This responsibility also applies to the future. Let it be allowed finally to twist Benjamin Franklin’s words – in a slightly different context, but still: “You have to take care of yourself here in the world so that you don’t eat the abundance of lunch, the poverty of dinner and the hunger of evening.”
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e514	It would be beneficial for the debate on the government parties to decide whether to criticise the Workers' Party in order to increase taxes or to criticise the Workers' Party for voting in favour of their tax relief. At least they cannot criticise us for both in the same debate – they have to decide. The truth is that the Labour Party in our draft budget and also here in the UK have voted in favour and voted in favour of some tax cuts, among others. to facilitate business conditions and to reduce taxes on low income. But the difference this year is NOK 3 to 4 billion, and we voted against several of the tax cuts proposed by the Government, that's absolutely right. And if we had 3 to 4 billion extra dollars now, it would have been much easier to make sure that we could get the care of the elderly, create a good school and say no to the social cuts proposed by the Government. My question to the representative Nilsen is linked to the unsocial proposals that the Government is putting into its budget. It proposes to remove the possibility of having additional income. Why should the disabled no longer be able to have small extra income without being deducted from social security? And don't point out to other changes in the disability benefit, but answer the one specific question: why shouldn't the disabled be able to have extra incomes below NOK 50 000 without being drawn similarly in social security? And the second: why is it important that an unemployed person who has already halved his income almost loses about NOK 20 000 in addition to the daily allowance? What's the point that those who have very little are going to get even less than before? It is true that the Right suggests removing the gravitational aid, and the Right also suggests removing the infant plug-in. This is how the kutter right from cradle to grave. But it's more serious what they do in relation to the disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e523	First, I want to correct a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the representative Stoltenberg: we do not remove the tomb support – no, no. The price of tombs in Norway is on average about NOK 15 000. Today, as far as I know, you can get approx. NOK 12000 in total. This means that the poorest people in Norway with today's system actually lack NOK 3000 to finance a tomb full. We think that's more important. In fact, we believe that those who have billions of income in Norway do not need the $4,000 if it results in some people in Norway not being able to finance the funeral. I don't understand that you can't agree with that, that you have to make sure that the resources go to those who need it the most. That's what the problem has been. When the representative Stoltenberg criticises the current government, I think that he too, as I tried to say in a reply, will take responsibility for the 90 000 poor who are in this country. They haven't come in this year. The problem has existed – it's just that you haven't been willing to focus your efforts on it so you can do something about it. The responsibility of the representative Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party must be taken, and then they must take the debate if they want to continue with general welfare arrangements, which means that the next time we meet in this Chamber we have the exact same problem – perhaps even greater. Yes, courage is required. It demands courage, and this government is willing to show it courage. We're going to do that. As far as the second question is concerned, it is the line of work that we are trying to implement – the one that the Workers' Party itself has stood for. All people feel much better if they can go to work, have a social work environment and get their income from it. This does something to people, and that also means that disabled people, everyone with a job reserve, obviously have good things to do when they get to work. And it also has to be the way to the seventh and last time in this country that it responds to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e530	What we see now is the Right in Government. What did the Right Out Of Government do? Let's look at the national transport level. Together with the Progress Party, a strong commitment to road construction was sought, and then the current parliamentary leader was the head of the Committee on Transport. National transport plan is based on a traffic growth of 1,4 pst. The actual increase is 2.6 pst. What's the Right answer to that? Yes, 3.4 pst. the decline in the investment budget on the road side, while at the same time we have unemployment in this country approaching 100 000. I remember the 1980s, when big banners were hung up at Youngstorget: 80 000 unemployed – the government has to go. So today we have 100,000. More and more roadside workers are available. More and more people get killed in traffic, and we have a road standard that's miserable. Export industries are calling for lower transport costs. And what's the Right answer? Yes, 3.4 pst. reduction of investment appropriations in the construction of roads in that country. It's high-level logic. My question to the Right: Why is the Right headed towards more unemployed people, who could rather have been used to build this country for the future, for the future of the export industry, while we could have saved more lives, and could have saved many for a life in a wheelchair? Are the Right answers only more fines, higher fines and more photo boxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e537	I think the representative was injured to say that there will be more unemployed. Yes, if we don't make sure that we have a budget that's tight and that makes competitive business in Norway improve its competitiveness, then that's a danger. And you listen to the dialect where I come from. I come from a corner of Norway where the export industry means a lot to local jobs. It also means a lot to the country's economy. It's in the area of the alarm clocks now ringing. We have received a cost increase in Norway that makes the export industry toil. Therefore, the main objective is to bring down the interest rate and hopefully also in the long term to bring down the interest rate. This is simply the case in a situation where what has been the most important thing is to provide a budget adapted to the economic situation. And then it's been necessary to look at all the areas where we could cut, but at the same time protect the weakest. We've done that, and I've been in it several times. There is no doubt that in some areas we have done so. But let us not forget that there is a significant increase in public transport in Norway – the biggest investment in many, many years. If I don't remember the numbers wrong, it's 59 pst. greater increase than the Workers' Party provided. We are making a significant effort for regional airports, related to district policy, and we are doing a good job on maintenance and road, and also on rail. So there's something going on. It is true, however, that in the case of road investment itself, the effort might have been slightly greater, but it is the overall situation that does. We have to make sure that we take the right steps, so that precisely the unemployment pointed out by the representative does not occur, and the best we can do there is to ensure that we deliver a tight budget adapted to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e546	Oddvard Nilsen was the head of the Transport Committee in the previous period, and the main matter he was involved in as committee leader was the treatment of the national transport plan. What we remember well from the treatment of the plan was that Oddvard Nilsen and Right were strongly critical of the low level of ambition that the previous government had in relation to the transport investments in the transport plan – too little money on the way, too little money on the railways and too little money for public transport. On the right, significant increases were proposed, a total of DKK 9.5 billion more for transport investment in the period up to 2011, i.e. significant increases both on rail, on road and on public transport. It should therefore be believed that the Right would help to make more use of transport and infrastructure when they came into government, in line with what they proposed in the transport plan, but this has certainly not happened. After two budgets with this government, the national transport plan is fully parked. The transport plan is no longer indicative of the level of investment in the transport sector in Norway. After two years, the delay is already over 2 billion kroner, and compared to what the Right proposed, 3 to 3.5 billion kroner. In all areas where Right and Oddvard Nilsen so strongly criticized the previous government for lack of ambition in the transport sector, this government has failed. Can Oddvard Nilsen explain why the Right then until those degrees have run from what they proposed in the National Transport Plan? Why is there such a difference between what the Right says and what they do when they're in opposition and what they do when they're in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e554	It's a little special that the speech of the throne is turned into a debate on the road, but you might not expect anything else when you've been the head of the Committee on Transport. I tried in many ways to give a reason for that. And it's a little strange to hear the criticism from SV, precisely because my experience from the years I was head of the Committee on Transport was that SV's top priority was public transport. So the old saying is, if I'm hammering or hammering, just as full, there's going to be jams. My point is this: overall, the budget for transport is good. It's true, as I said instead, that in relation to some areas we don't follow up on the goal. But I also want to say that we have two years left, so we'll see what we can deliver. However, I do not hide the fact that this has been necessary to achieve a budget adapted to the economic situation in the country. And there are probably many disciplines that could have wanted more funding. I'm absolutely convinced of that, but the point is that this is how it is, and so it has to be. What is most important is what I said in the reply to the previous replicator, namely that it is about ensuring that we maintain competitiveness in Norway, so that we are able to contribute to the economic value creation in mainland Norway that is needed to bear all the expenditure related to well-being and what the representative is asking for, namely more money on the way. So here you have to make a priority. I also agree in many ways that road construction is important, but here you do something. In addition, it should be borne in mind that significant structural changes are being made which, in the next round, can release significant resources that can then be deployed in the road sector. The conversion of the State Road Service is one of these structural changes, the conversion of the Aviation Administration to AS is another and the OPS project is a third. There is a lot to do, and this will last and lastly also increase total transport resources, as well as in the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e565	The representative of Nilsen is quite right when he says that the debate on the throne should be more about the political choices. In this way, there is no doubt that in the autumn we are facing clearer road choices than before, and that this government has chosen the road to the right. It is quite obvious when you look at a private consumption that is encouraged further, while public and, in particular, local welfare is slowly but surely confused. It is quite obvious when you look at the unnecessary cuts proposed to the very weakest groups in this society, whether they are chronically ill, disabled or others. So there's no doubt about what road choices we're now facing. But if we had put away all the games on Stortinget's disagree, and looked at one thing that we at least agreed on before the elections last year, that was the bet at school. That was the Right Fans' thing. It was not just about the private schools, which are now being heard, and not just about the diversity and abilities of the teachers, but about the resources of the Norwegian school. I think it's all around the country now that people are being plagued by how much it's going to cut down on the school offer, how many smaller schools that need to be laid down and what offers you can't give anymore. People are plagued with school buildings that are almost falling down, and they are not fooled into believing that a crowded community economy does not also mean that school provision is getting worse around the country. In such a situation, it is not strange that they do not trust what has been said from a political point of view. And that lack of trust is primarily affecting the Right Party. My question is: does the Right see that they have failed to trust people in school policy, and what do they possibly intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e576	First of all, it is not right that the budget does not provide more money for school. If I don't remember completely wrong, it's approx. 380 million. kr that is applied. In addition, it is increased by approx. One billion dollars in school buildings, and there's a lot going on in this area. But I know something about this. What do we all remember from our everyday school days? What do we remember when we sit down and think about school? Yes, it's the teacher. It's the great pedagogue. Hopefully we've all met him, the one who inspires and stimulates the student, and who may also mean something to the choice, the choice, just because he who learns in the classroom makes sure to inspire you. The most important resource in school anyway, and I'm going to defend it to the last second, is the teacher as a pedagogue. It's him, and it's not the equipment, it's not everything else, of course it's also important, but it's finally the teacher. So we went in with a significant increase to increase the teacher's salary because we wanted to raise the standard, increase the quality, get the good teacher back into the classroom, so that you could get better education. It's the most important thing, and it's done a lot to get to. We've tried to turn the entire pyramid around. We've said that individual educators should be allowed to use their educational skills to teach, to engage their students, to do so differently from everyone else, but to make sure that there are results and to be judged on results. Release the teacher. Let him be a teacher. Let him teach his students. So, of course, it doesn't mean that the other doesn't matter, but the very most important thing in Norwegian school is real, good, engaged teachers, and that has been the Right's goal. That's what the Right said, and it's also going to be judged for, and there I think we're all going to stand straight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e583	The problem with Right School Policy is that they think they can get a better school by spending less money at school. It gets smaller in many municipalities to the schools. It is true that the teacher is the key to a good school. That's why the Workers' Party, not the Right, made sure that the teachers got a decent paylift. But it costs money. In order to recruit good teachers, we have to be willing to give them a respectable salary, but it's not free, and that's another example of not getting quality in school without being willing to pay for it. Now, the scheme of refurbishment of school buildings was cut by $1 billion compared to what was decided here in Stortinget. When I drew myself to a line number. two, it was because I felt that my question about disability was not answered at all, and at least it was not about unemployment. That is, it was an answer when it came to disability, but it was a bad answer. It was shown that the reason for removing the scheme that the workers can earn NOK 50000 without being insured was the line of work. I am a strong and strong supporter of the workline. That's why I have, for example. go to the Right when they have proposed cutting labour market measures and other things that can get people to work. But taking away the possibility of earning a few extra thousands is the opposite of the line of work. So it's e.g. so that for a scratcher that is healthy one day, but bad for three weeks and then healthy three days and so bad for two weeks, the whole economic point of doing a little extra effort disappears. Then you're going to be 100 pst. perform with zero extra work effort. It must be better for society, and not least for the individual, that they can get some extra income without being drawn, but that is what the Government, the Right and the Christian People's Party is now proposing. Why the unemployed should lose NOK 20 000, I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e592	I do not know what I should have to answer for the representative of Stoltenberg to be satisfied with my answers. I have tried to answer. I'll come back to the two questions he mentioned, but let me take the school first. No one knows what's going on at school in 2003, because it's the municipalities that decide. That's where the responsibility lies. So it's not right, as the representative Stoltenberg says, that it's black-painting the picture. It's like in Bergen, where the Workers' Party sits with power, that's right, you kiss in school. But you don't do that in Oslo, where the Right is in power. So the calculation of how this is prioritised in the different municipalities, we'll see when we get out in the new year. There is also talk in the municipal sector about being able to prioritise and would give priority to school. It's important for me to say that, because you get the impression that we're here in this room that sits and gives the money to the school. It's the municipality that does, and it's the municipality that prioritizes that part. Of course, this does not mean that the overall framework being allocated does not matter. But we have also increased that framework, but the direct priority of municipal policy makes the municipal politicians themselves, also linked to the school. So to the line of work. I sincerely believe that all people should have the right, as far as possible, to be allowed to work. I think going to work in the morning, being in a social community at work, is a enrichment that makes everyday life better for all of us. I think that sometimes it will also be that we help in that area. It's not supposed to be any negative when we talk about those who get dissatisfied. No, we're just saying that we're going to set things straight, that's what we're going to do. So it's a little bit of a point for this. It's actually the Labor Party's Matz Sandman who has suggested a lot of this. In that way, we're in good company. But the main point is that we have to do everything we can to make all people get into work, and that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e601	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e604	The party of progress was the birth helper or midwife of this government. That means we got it into a living. We take responsibility for that. But a midwife or a birth helper has no eternal responsibility. That's why I disagree with Jens Stoltenberg, who also talks about us as a father – a father has a hopefully very long responsibility, but not a birth helper. However, I agree with Jens Stoltenberg that the experience of recent minority governments suggests a growing need to investigate the possibility of majority governments. One of the major problems in Norwegian society and business is the lack of predictable, stable framework conditions. It speaks for majority solutions, so that you get a policy that is sustained over some time. I think that also means that we need to look a lot more closely at how we treat and set up our state budget. I think we should consider very strongly whether we should not have more long-term budgets, where the individual chapters or areas of a budget are set for four years at a time, without any special possibility of change, so that we know what to do. I believe that in business there is a growing concern that you can never know what the situation will be in significant areas for business in two, three, four years. When making long-term investments, you need to have a stable framework. That was also our line at the last big shot. We said we were prepared to discuss with other parties the possibility of starting negotiations on a political basis for a majority government. That's still our line. But we had to find out last year that our invitation to the Right and the Christian People's Party to conduct such discussions, as the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have a majority in the Storting, was dismissed. The Bondevik government itself has chosen the uncertainty it is in minority government without any agreement with any of the opposition parties. Prime Minister Bondevik has repeatedly stressed that he wants to try to have a majority sometimes with the Labour Party, sometimes with the Socialist Left Party and sometimes with the Progress Party. The problems that the Bondevik Government may face during the budgetary procedure and in other contexts are self-elected. Responsibility rests entirely on the Right and Christian People's Party. I'm ignoring the Left, which has no meaning in these questions. That's why it's a little sad that we have the situation that you wouldn't even discuss the possibilities of finding a political platform for a majority government. But our offer is there. That would have to lead to a new political platform. I see that someone is talking about taking the Advance Party to the Government, as if we were going to go into a government based on just the Sem declaration. It doesn't make any sense. This would involve new negotiations and a new platform, where the Progress Party would also put some stamps on it. Norway is not, as many say, one of the richest countries in the world, we are the richest country in the world. Almost all other Western countries have significant sovereign debt. Sweden has a government debt of over DKK 1,000 billion. The vast majority of other Western countries are struggling with deficits in their state budgets, and they are struggling so that there will be no more than 3 pst. deficits of GDP — Maastricht criteria. Norway has no sovereign debt. We have a fortune of approx. 660 billion kroner by the end of this year, and it's growing by 138 billion to 846 billion kroner by the end of next year. So the surplus on the state budget is enormous. Nevertheless, the government is putting forward a so-called tight government budget, which goes beyond weak groups, where benefits are cut into weak groups. We find this completely pointless. The government says that because the cost of sick pay and disability benefits increases – there are regulatory arrangements – there is a need to tighten up in other areas. We disagree. Other countries have to do it because they don't have any money. We got them. That we have to do something to get sick leave and disability down and take advantage of the working capacity of many of the disadvantaged people and want to use, we have to do that. We have a lot of solutions in that area. But I see no reason why because the cost of sickness and disability benefits has gone up, we should cut road appropriations and send some more road workers out to work. There can be no sense in that, because the cost of sickness and disability benefits has gone up, there is a need to reintroduce excesses for pensioners and disabled people in the field of medicine on a blue prescription. There's no connection in that. Because some expenses have gone up, you're going to have to cut elsewhere automatically. We need to look much more closely at the individual items in the budget. If we propose changes that make sense individually, the sum also makes sense. The last increase in interest rates was justified by the central bank with the cost of wage-fixing — not the demand effect of wage-fixing, but the costs. The government is now saying that it wants to start an income policy cooperation. That's good. But think about the Government and the other parties had listened to the Advance Party on 19 March, when we suggested that we should then start a income policy cooperation in the last wage settlement. The frame became 5.5 pst., which is carried entirely by the companies and municipalities. This has resulted in price increases, which in turn have resulted in job losses. 3-3.5 pst. that framework could have been covered by tax relief. The state could afford it. If we had entered into income policy cooperation and had made it a prerequisite to do something about taxes and taxes in a tripartite collaboration, we could have had a wage settlement of 2 to 2.5 pst., which was burdened on businesses and municipalities, while the purchasing power development for everyone would be exactly the same. That would make sense. Jens Stoltenberg, Kristin Halvorsen and the government parties said no, and they then got an increase in interest rates. Now there's reason to think, after signals we get daily in newspapers, that there's going to be an increase in unemployment. Then there is no time for a so-called tight budget. Very often the government and Jens Stoltenberg refer to the so-called rule of action. Then they should read this part of the rule of action: ‘Mainstreaming fluctuations in the economy in order to ensure good capacity utilisation and low unemployment remains a major concern.’ It is within the framework of the rule of action now to have a less tight budget to prevent growth in unemployment – it would be within the framework of the rule of action. If there is an increase in unemployment – one makes the same mistake as Kåre Willoch and Gro Harlem Brundtland made in the 1980s, one narrows down when unemployment is on the rise, and then it rises even higher – and unemployment rises by 40,000, payments to unemployment benefit increase, because it is governed by rules. The revenues from the same are reduced because they have a smaller amount to pay taxes and taxes on. Is it, then, as the Government and the Workers' Party sees it – because then the budgetary balance is breaking down – that we need to cut back even more on social benefits in order to correct the additional costs and the lack of income? It's a pointless way of running politics in a country that has good advice, and that's why we're going to say that we can actually reduce this huge surplus on the state budget, which is NOK 138 billion. So we would have done fine in this country even if the profit was only NOK 100 billion, or NOK 110 billion. So to a couple of the purposes we want to bet on. Of course, it is right that we should save for the future. But we can't just think about the generations to come, we have to think about the people who built the country, the people who are now retired. And when we can afford, why can't those who built the country get a safer, better and more dignified old age? Why, when we have good advice, are we going to say that still married pensioners are not going to get a full pension? Why can't they get a full pension? Why can't we have a proper regulation of the basic amount of popular security, so that the pensions, which have gone down in relation to the promises, can match the promises of 1967? We want an escalating plan for the pensions. And when we have problems in business with growing unemployment, why does the government want to send 18 000 seafarers into the open? It doesn't make any sense. We signed an agreement with the government parties on 4 June, 26 points. One of the points, paragraph 9, was that we had to have a stable framework for shipping and shipping companies. We introduced a net pay scheme, which Sweden and Denmark have. Poor Sweden has it, and Denmark has it, they also have a deficit in their budget. Then we're going to take it away again," says the Government, on 1 January, in violation of the signed agreement where the Government was only to issue two models of how it was to be done, either by regulation or by law. We have said, and I am firmly convinced that all the points in the agreement we have signed must be respected before we go to any negotiating table. You cannot negotiate with a party in trust and trust if the agreement you signed a few months ago is not complied with. This means that the very basis for negotiations on trust and trustworthiness does not exist. We are therefore going through this agreement to see if everything is fulfilled. Then I'll mention two things from the throne. The government says in the throne that it will strengthen its efforts against organized crime. The next day, it presents the budget with a gift package for organised crime, namely the maintenance of the sky-high alcohol and tobacco taxes that make Norway the paradise of smugglers. This organised crime must be stopped. We must therefore also reduce the basis for smuggling, reduce alcohol and tobacco taxes down to the Swedish level at least. Perhaps it will not break all smuggling, because there are still sky-high charges, but the Swedes will also reduce their charges quite sharply next year due to EU rules, and we will have to follow them. Can't it be that, in a situation where there are problems in the trade in goods, we are openly sending Norwegian citizens to Sweden to act, so that there is less employment in Norwegian companies? It's the growing border trade we have to do something about, because it's not just about alcohol and tobacco, it's also about cars. It starts with brown goods, furniture and white goods. People go to shops in Norway and see what kind of TV they're going to buy, and they go to Sweden and buy it. Then they go to car dealers in Norway and try out different cars, and find out that we're going to have one of those cars, and then they go to Sweden and buy it. We have to do something with our fee level here as well. We will take that into account in our budget option. We hope that the Government and the government parties will discuss carefully once and for all the tightness of the budget, the rule of action, in particular the need to smooth fluctuations, look at the trends now in order to increase the unemployment rate, and re-evaluate this main priority that has obviously been with the Government, that we should first of all ensure a surplus of DK 138 billion. It is possible to look out of the windows and ignore the map of the Norwegian economy that some economists drew in April-May, but where the terrain is now changing dramatically – look out of the window and come to the recognition that in order to avoid increased unemployment, we should reduce taxes and charges and in some areas increase appropriations, including: in the road sector, so we get all the vacant workers back to work. And then the surplus in the state budget is less important than taking into account the business of the Norwegian people. I would also like to address the proposal that has been distributed, where we are asking the Government to refrain from its planned embellishment of labour immigration rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e649	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e654	I think it's an exaggeration to say that Sweden is a lukewarm country, but it's true that most of the other Western countries have government debt, and some government debt, while Norway has profits and money on book. We're supposed to be happy about that. Because while most Western European countries do not know how to finance and pay the pensions, either to current or future pensioners, and have actually implemented quite a cut in the pension rights of the vast majority of pensioners to do that job, Norway because we have the oil fund, money on book, is able to pay the pensions and also to make some improvements. But we can't use the oil money twice, as Carl I. Hagen repeatedly suggests. The representative, Hagen, has a constitutional proposal that the yield of the oil fund should be used to finance pensions. It does not last, so we have to send some extra money from the state budget to pay the pensions. Then there is no release of money on the state budget, but on the contrary there will be a little less money left for all the other expenses. It is not possible to believe that the oil fund will be used to pay pensions, and at the same time believe that exactly the same heads will be used to buy fighter aircraft, helicopters, ambulances and many other things abroad. The representative Hagen has never answered the basic question, but uses the argument in all the TV debates no matter what we discuss. If we discuss lower charges, better roads or more helicopters, he says, "We're using oil money." But that money has already been spent by the Advance Party and Hagen on the basis of their constitution for just one thing: pensions. That is why the representative must end up with that nonsense, because it is double accounting. Then the representative Hagen answers something in the direction that there will be less money for other expenses. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e663	I have tried to explain this to Jens Stoltenberg many times. It's obvious that his basic knowledge of mathematics, accounting and budgeting is below the level that it should be. I read in St. prp. No 1 that the total surplus on the State budget and the State Petroleum Fund is NOK 162 billion. It is after all pensions have been paid. It's not about spending money twice. It is after all pensions have been paid that you have the surplus. What we have proposed is a system change in the long term. We say that instead of going beyond the state budget, instead of the revenue from the oil business, they are going into the state budget in the normal way. When we set up our government budget and get a profit, the surplus is then put into a pension fund, and then the return from there is just going to cover pensions. Every time you pay something from the oil business for a special purpose, you don't spend any other money for it. Overall, there will be no change from today except that then at least the funds will be guaranteed to go to retirement. And it's clear that if other, new money went to cover a purpose, the money that would otherwise have gone for that purpose would be set free for other things. In the case of a foreign budget, where the reason for not spending money on reasonable purposes is that there will be pressure in the Norwegian economy, we say that if we buy equipment for hospitals abroad, if we buy nursing homes abroad, if we buy combat aircraft abroad, if we buy cars to the police abroad, if we buy PCs to our schoolchildren abroad, there will be no pressure in the Norwegian economy. So we can let go of the reasons that others use for why we can't do things, if we divide our state budget into two parts – what works in the Norwegian economy, and what doesn't work in the Norwegian economy. This I'm convinced that we're going to have in a few years, and many here are going to regret that they didn't listen to us a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e673	One year ago, the Party of Advances and Government parties agreed that the Workers' Party had ruled this country too long, and that a new course was needed. Now we're changing Norway. Taxes and charges have been reduced. The public sector is being modernised and streamlined. Greater emphasis is placed on higher education and research in order to provide a basis for future value creation. Social schemes are targeted to help the weakest. We are stepping up the fight against poverty both at home and outside. This harvest takes new steps. At the same time, we are dedicated to dampening the pressure on the interest rate and the crown to secure the jobs. The representative, Hagen, meets this with a black paint that lacks similarity. He takes the piggyback to our children and invites them to a big party with no thought for the remorse and bakrus who will join us. It is known, and Hagen also confirms in his post now, that he has little confidence in the economists. The question is, why don't the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen listen to business? This autumn there has been a clear and unambiguous communication from industry, from coastal businesses, from the entire competitive sector, that there is a need for a budget that dampens interest and crown pressures. In other words, we need a tight budget. The feedback following the presentation of the budget has also been very positive from businesses, from industry, from the competitive sector: this is a good budget for job security. Why don't Carl I. Hagen listen to the businesses, to our business life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e688	I'm a little sorry that I didn't have the World Times for today on my desk, so I could show that several of the business leaders now say that the Advance Party should enter the government. I don't know if Jan Tore Sanner has got it with him, and if he listens to it, it might be interesting to hear. We listen to a lot of people in business, and we also listen to economists, but we don't stop thinking for ourselves. We take things in. But unlike the Government, which almost leaves everything to the tailor economists in the Ministry of Finance and cuts almost out its own thinking and takes way too good fish, we think for ourselves. And many business leaders say, we need to get stable conditions, and we need to get back the depreciation rates for machines and equipment that we had before. We will propose that in our alternative budget. They say, "What if we had managed to get a lower cost increase in the payroll?" We proposed to fix it by some tax reductions, so that the bill did not get so big. There are several of these things that only the Progress Party has been concerned with, such as: amending the legislation and doing something serious with the form field. In many of these things, we listen to business, and we will have marked changes in many of these framework conditions for the benefit of business. So it's true, as Sanner said, we had some hopes for this government. We had hoped for power of action. Let me give you one example that we think is completely hair-removing. In the next year's budget, it has been assumed that there will be 16 000 asylum seekers, or welfare seekers, who are a legitimate expression, and it will cost over DKK 4 billion. The government is doing nothing to tighten the legislation so that we can bring these costs down – over NOK 4 billion! 16,000 welfare seekers are accepted. So instead of tightening up the rules here and saving some money, you've sent a bill to pensioners and performers who are no longer going to get free medicine. I don't think that's a good idea. That's not how we expected to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e697	‘Norway is the richest country in the world’, the representative Hagen began by saying in his reply to Jens Stoltenberg, where he also reported the oil fund’s growth this year at NOK 138 billion. In the main post, the representative, Mr Hagen, continued to say that ‘it is cut in benefits to weak groups’. Hagen said it only four months and five days after the lot entered into an agreement with the Government on the revised national budget for 2002. Here, then, the Progress Party should be able to make practical policies more visible which priorities they will take in relation to what they have said they will do. This is what they did: the Progress Party did not allow in the revised national budget to grant one more krone than the Government chose to grant. The batch selected to find a cut of 620 million. kr, but this occurred through extensive cuts in different budget lines and not through more use of fresh money, which the representative Hagen otherwise calls for. A significant part of the amount was used to eliminate taxes on income and employers’ taxes on driving compensation, and was spent more on it than on strengthening the hospital economy. The agreement on the revised national budget between the Progress Party and the Government also describes areas of activity in addition to the revised national budget itself. It is important to note that the agreement does not contain any wording on improved conditions for our minimum pensioners. The agreement does not contain any wording on measures to improve the living conditions of nursing homes. The agreement does not contain a formulation to look at the curtailment scheme for married and cohabitants. The agreement contains no proposals for strengthening the economy of Norwegian municipalities. It is cut off funds for participation in international cooperation. It's cut in support of the libraries. It's cut in the support of the Northmen who were in Japanese captivity during the war. There are cuts in housing and environmental measures, cuts in family protection measures and cuts in conflict resolution measures. Action in the field of child protection and youth has been curtailed. Subsidies for kindergartens, cuts in agri-environment and nutrition measures are cut in support of the State Food Authority. There's zero dollars for the psychiatry, zero dollars for the strengthening of the retirement pension system, zero dollars for the strengthening of the staff situation at the nursing homes. In July John I. Alvheim went out and said that he did not dare lie in a Norwegian nursing home. How will Carl I. Hagen explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e704	We have been saying for a long time, and we stand on the principle that there will be more than one budget debate per year. years. The budget is dealt with in the autumn, and the frameworks are laid – the great things. Of course, we could have had a new, full budget procedure in June, but we think it would be even more unpredictable and even more uncertain if the entire budget and all the elements were to be dealt with twice a year. The framework was laid down in the ordinary budgetary procedure. We went in negotiations with the government parties to keep what was the previously adopted budget. We didn't do rematches. We cannot have a debate on and vote on, for example. the alcohol charges once a week in this landfill. We're doing these things during the budgetary procedure. We acted very responsibly as we did not rematch, but adjustments in the budget. That's why many of these great things are not there. The conscience of care for the elderly is very good for us. We have also said in principle that we want regulated care for the elderly. We want the people's protection system to be extended to the care of the elderly, and we want to finance it from the state and not from the municipalities. We want the money to come automatically from the state, the social security office, in the same way that sickness benefits and unemployment benefits come automatically, until the nursing home he/she and his/her relatives chooses. We want the same for other elements of care for the elderly. Now we have this unworthy black player game. The local authorities go to the state to get too little money. The state says that the local authorities' priorities are wrong. We need to bring together responsibility for the care of the elderly and the school system in one place, namely, in the case of corruption and government, so that we can end the unworthy blackmail game, and all the elderly are entitled to the necessary services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e711	The representative Hagen claims that in the government party we had one overarching goal, and that was to increase the surplus on the state budget. I can cancel that. It's not that big a deal. That's what the representative Sanner is talking about, that we shouldn't shoot more money into the economy than that we can still have an export-right industry. So here we've got the first company that has notified that it won't be flagged out because of the budget. Does the representative, Mr Hagen, think it is positive, or is there also a budget error? Then there was a discussion about pensions and the oil fund. How big is the oil fund today? Yeah, it's $666 billion, which is something larger than a year's budget. It's fun to have money on book, but it's not that it's such a huge fund that we can put in unlimited consumption. Does the representative Hagen not now agree that it is important that an actual syster so that future pensions can also benefit from that fund? If you don't, it could actually be a problem in the future. And then finally. There was a quite a shock yesterday morning when the fiscal spokesman from the Progress Party criticized the government for spending money on the poorest people in the world who are actually not even allowed to grow up, rather than on cheaper spirits. I understand that the representative Hagen moved something during yesterday, even though he also defended the brandy for a long time. I hope that the representative Hagen agrees that money for the poor is more important than cheap spirits.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e720	I'm almost a little shocked by Jon Lilletun now. The government itself has said in its throne that it will fight organized crime. There is no doubt about the question of asking policemen that the basis for much of organized crime in the area of smuggling is due to high spirits prices in Norway. Border trade is of the majority considered a major problem, and even in the Sem Declaration there is a decrease in alcohol taxes. The fact that the Progress Party wants to reduce alcohol taxes, both to combat organised crime, smuggling, and to reduce border trade, is well known. You try to connect to the so-called poor children. Our representative, Gjermund Hagesetter, used an example of where, in our opinion, expenditures in the State budget should be reduced, i.e. to reduce aid. That's not all that goes to poor child. We kept living in Mugabe in Zimbabwe for 15 years before we started cutting off his aid. And that's enough of the stories that through our help we've kept in live regimes that might otherwise have fallen. It's a lot negative to say there. And we can do other examples of cut. Why on earth doesn't the government scrape the plans for $3 billion to the opera? You really get to see the pensioners and the untrained who now have to get a new specialty on drugs on blue prescription, in their eyes and say: It's more important with opera. There are many things we can cut in the budget. Gardening kits mentioned just one example. Then to the oil fund. The oil fund is approximately NOK 660 billion and next year will be 846 billion, but in addition, the government owns shares for SEK 500-600 million. kr. We have a people's security fund, an independent fund that only operates within its own sphere, worth about $180 billion. We've never expected to stop having profits in the next 5, 10, 15, 20 years, where we know that we have huge oil and gas revenues, so the fund will anyway be built up. We've just sketched how we can do it in another way, which in itself is very sensible, and as in the other; secondary, also gives important effects to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e729	One year ago, in the debate on the throne, two expressions were used by the leader of the Progress Party to indicate the relationship with the Government – whether the Progress Party was part of the parliamentary basis of the Government, or whether the Progress Party was part of the parliamentary basis. The difference, which the representative Stoltenberg has also underlined, is actually difficult to understand. And the year that has gone by has shown that it was a superfluous clarification on the part of the representative Hagen. It is a reality that the Advance Party is both a birth helper and a life giver to the Government. This means that the Progress Party cannot discharge its responsibility for the policy pursued by the Government. It actually seems as if the Advance Party will ride two horses at once, be the party that provides for the life of the Government, and at the same time distance from the Government's policy. The representative, Hagen, heard the Christian People's Party rapporteur from Aremark in the debate at the NRK last night describing the severely weakened quality of care for the elderly in the municipality there. How is it possible for the Progress Party to support a government that weakens basic welfare services in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e736	It was claimed that the Progress Party must take responsibility for the policy of the Government. All that is done by this government is to take responsibility for it, as we do. It got a little too stupid. When the Government, by the Minister for Environmental Protection Børge Brende, who sits here, goes to Kristin Halvorsen and concludes agreements on environmental policy, should it also be the responsibility of the Progress Party? When the Government cooperates with the Labour Party in many areas, should we take responsibility for it too? Now I'm about to hear that the Progress Party really has responsibility for everything that's wrong in this country, and not honor for something that's good. There must be limits! We take responsibility for the origin of the Government. We formed the basis for it being established. We're on it. We have to take responsibility for the things we vote for in this big deal, but nothing else. Those who vote for things and make sure that there is a majority have to take responsibility for those elements. In the case of the municipal economy, it varies from municipality to municipality. It's actually municipalities that have rationalized pretty strongly. We had a municipal policy conference last weekend, where we, among other things, was given an explanation of downskilling, not in the production of services, but at the level of middle managers in municipalities, inter alia. in Tønsberg, in Os and in Porsgrund, where we've been and run, and where we've made sure to get the economy in order by disembarking at the intermediate level. We have said that things can be done in the municipalities. It is municipalities that have built cultural houses instead of hospitals. That's why we say that we have to give responsibility for the care of the elderly back to big business and government, and earmark the appropriations for this area, so that the elderly can be sure that the money goes for that purpose, rather than that some municipalities spend it on completely different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e749	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e752	First a little visit to Carl I. Hagen, because now we're getting closer to something that's liberatingly clear: now Carl I. Hagen starts to take responsibility for the fact that there are significant contractions in many municipalities. And that's only fair and fair, because in the local economy, the government Bondevik has settled with the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen's party. But around the municipality of Norway, there are not many people who know that they can send a warm greeting to Carl I. Hagen when they have to tighten up at school – half of the municipalities cut down at school – and when they have to tighten up the care of the elderly. It's very good that Carl I. Hagen is now approaching something that looks like taking responsibility for what the Progress Party is actually in, and I'm asking the Norwegian people to notice it. Carl I. Hagen is responsible for the cuts that come in the fields of school and care, and in other areas around the Commune-Norway, and he defends it. He believes that there is no problem, because it can be taken back from elsewhere. The languages of the throne are an opportunity to raise your eyes a little bit. That's what I'm going to do, because it did – and should do – quite a bit of an impression when a few days ago there was a news that bullying in school has increased by 70 pst. from 1995 to 2001. These are very harsh realities. Some of the worst things you can be exposed to are bullying, freezing, not having friends, not drying alone on the school road — all those things. It's dramatic when it's 70 pst. increase. Then, of course, SV can rush and say that this is because we believe that the municipal budgets are too tight and that the schools have too little money. It might be a little bit in, but it can't possibly be the whole explanation. I think this is related to the fact that we have a society that is becoming more and more materialistic: private consumption is increasing too many. Many people can afford to have a very high consumption, and we have a buying carousel that helps to emphasize that not everyone gets in. That is what studies have also been done. For example, quotes that I have picked up from SIFO say: ‘In the case of negative consequences of buying press experiences, young people mention in particular that those who could not spend so much money on clothes did not have friends. When more and more have it, fewer and fewer will remain standing." Or the following: ‘A girl says that there is a youth with the lowest rank in the crowd – those who are afraid of being exposed to the most pressure of purchase.’ Neither do I think this is the whole and full explanation of bullying, but I think it's a context. I believe that in 2002 – in the world’s richest country – a fundamental question needs to be asked: What is the way forward from here? Are we going to light up under an increasingly materialistic society where more people fall outside and don't get involved, where outer goods become what determines whether you can claim or not? Or are we going to bet on another way? It is in this context that we should try to take the temperature of a right-wing government budget. For this is a budget that is going to increase private consumption strongly – and most of all for those who have a lot from before – and that will lead to many being hung behind and standing outside. And then we're at some of the core of the Right Policy, which is this: drop into your wallet, count through the crowns, see how many you have left – even if you have good advice from before – and make it the most existing question in our time. That is what is the big challenge for us who are fighting for solidarity and for other values, a systematic challenge. The relative poverty will, of course, increase in such a society. It's really clear speech from the Government that lies in one of the things we've called the 'Right Clos' in this budget, that it's no longer said that it's an objective in itself to smooth out differences in society. What it's about now is giving some alms to the poorest. Then you'll always have a system where standing outside gets heavier and heavier, while private consumption increases for those who have a lot to do. It is not just about going into charity for those who are the poorest. This is a fundamental ideological and fundamentally important question of how we develop this society. I have received various e-mails lately. Let me illustrate a little bit what these contractions to those who have the least, actually mean. I will not reveal who I have received this e-mail from, but the headline is: Right shows its true face. Help, a monster! In short, this man writes: I am 41 years old and have been a little over the last 15 years. Nevertheless, I have been able to speculate on my social security by working a few hours a week. Because of a special tipping skill in the media, I have been able to earn quite well by the side of social security, even with a modest work effort. A larger amount of work would be completely impossible, with my disease. I have earned an extra NOK 3000 a month, and it has given me advice for a rowhouse and a car as well as to take care of my wife and children. For our family it will mean poverty if the limit of what I can have in extra income is set at NOK 5000. So these are people who are basically sick, but who have the ability to contribute a little, and who are likely to stay fresher and contribute to a better quality of life, which is what the government is now trying to prevent. So it's not going to pay off for those who are sick to work. Then there is another guy who is in the new proposal for a ceiling on special deductions for particularly large costs related to disease, as the government proposes. This is a very strong disability, which has been able to be in full employment and have income. He describes how this will turn out for him, and he concludes the letter with the following: I know at least that I am on the move from being physically ill to becoming more and more mentally ill, and that the state budget for 2003 does not do anything better. It comes to a point where I want to feel that my everyday life becomes easier by applying for a disability pension, and this I am not alone thinking about. So you go the opposite of what's the Government's intention, that people who are per. today is able to do so, has a job, and makes it so complicated and demanding that it becomes impossible. The result is disability pension. It must be the opposite of what the Government really has as the heading of its policy. We have a society where the differences are increasing, and it's not like there's going to be a huge increase in this budget. The contractions that occur in relation to the insured and in relation to the unemployed are dramatic to those involved. There is no huge relief in this budget at the top – it's given before – but the differences are increasing, and it's going the wrong way. At the same time, we have a labour market that is getting rougher. It's tougher, and there's a lot of people struggling out. Many people wonder what quality of life they really have, especially those who work in the care sector, who have the most creative job breaks, who often don't have the opportunity to get a full-day job with real income, and who have a bad conscience when they go home from work, because they don't think they can really stand up for the old people they're set to care for. In addition, municipalities often treat them a little poorly. They stay at home as a kind of call girl – they say that with a glimpse in my eye – while the municipality treats them under the slogan: We call, you jump, back and forth from what is needed, and with worse working conditions. We also get a rougher ownership, or a tougher work life, where there's no longer any business going on with profits, but how big the profit is, and whether it can get bigger somewhere else. That's the story behind the emigration and the deflagration of Jordan. At the Jordan toothbrush factory I had a summer job 20 years ago, and of course it has made such a big impression on me that since then I have always bought Jordan toothbrushes and dishes in view of the very nice ladies who worked there. There's the following story: they earned well, they had a nice profit, but the owners thought it could be bigger somewhere else. So raw -- so raw -- this capitalist society is about to become. One further development, which I am very pleased that Jens Stoltenberg was present, is: Where do we go from here in terms of the relationship between the increase in private consumption and the increase in public consumption? I think that is absolutely essential in relation to whether we're going to end up in a public sector and pay our taxes in safe assurance that we're getting quality back. When the private consumption next year is going to increase seven times as much as public consumption, the difference in standard is going to be between what we get public, and the private economy of very many of us is going to be so big that we see that the public is not able to match the private. That's the case with a lot of schools. When I started school, Grønli school in Porsgrund in 1967 – we had a new and fine school – the standard was about the same as I had at home. Now, the standard at many schools, especially in high school, is significant below the very large number of children at home, and the one they can compare many other jobs with. It will be an undermining of the public school. And then I believe that some more creative explanation than the Oddvard Nilsen is able to perform in relation to school bets, and what came out in the Right election campaign, I have rarely heard. Right went to the choice of tax and school, school and tax, and tax and school. Is it so that people thought that OK, right will reduce the tax and increase the effort at school? I think so. But Oddvard Nilsen is supposed to make people understand that it really meant the opposite. This meant that the Right had intended to reduce efforts towards school and perhaps increase the tax. Or is it just that people are a little skinny? I would not dry to nod affirmatively to it. It's clear that after the election campaign we had, where the school was put in the center and everyone was concerned that we had to invest in what's most important for the future, it was expected that it would look around in all the classrooms throughout the country, and not that one would suddenly have to get an explanation after the election that it's not money that's crucial, because for Right-People it doesn't cost quality. It's not gonna work. It is not understood, and it is taken as a very gross breach of promise. I have a lot on my heart, as usual, but only a little visit to the discussion about the oil fund. For us, this is much more a moral question than it's an equation that goes up or down. This is not a very tight budget. It's just a label you put on it. It is not a particularly tight budget what the Bondevik government has presented. It is not that there is one fasit, and every penny used over the line set by the Bondevik government is a terriblely irresponsible proposal. It really depends on what you're using it for. If you use it to invest for the future or to prevent some of the things that are society's greatest waste, namely unemployment, then the crown is used responsibly. If it's a dollar you spend on sod and sod, and you stick it up, and you don't think you should re-distribute into one of the richest generations in our whole history, ours, it's completely wrong. We can't abolish the redistribution, like Carl I. Hagen does, even if we have an oil fund. We have to take our share of that responsibility. But I think that the way the government and the big crowd defend money use gives Carl I. Hagen very many light points, because there's no difference between oil crowns and other dollars. You have tried to insert the oil crowns so you wouldn't see how rich we were. And there's going to be a very big gap between what's expected in a rich country of standard public services, and what you actually get. I've been out saying that I think Bondevik should take Carl I. Hagen into government. It's not based on an intense desire to see progress parties around the King's table, but on an intense desire for voters to understand who is responsible for different decisions taken in this room. As it is now, it is very unwieldy and completely impossible for those who do not have it as a full-day job to follow up on who is actually responsible. It is obvious that the Progress Party is responsible for all cuts that are now being made around the municipalities, because they have settled the municipal budget with the government of Bondevik. That's good, and that's clear speech. Otherwise, Carl I. Hagen speaks out of all the oral weeks that exist, and that man has ten oral weeks instead of two, which most others have. One day they're talking about increasing u-aid because we're an oil nation, and when we get increased oil revenues, we have to put up with poor countries that get increased expenditure because of the rise in oil prices. The next day, i.e. Two weeks later, the same figures are out saying, let's take from the u-help to reduce the alcohol charge. This kind of double game has to be revealed. Then you have to be held responsible, and then you have to show the whole card stick at the same time, because you know, as the president also knows, that there is not just an ace in a card stick.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e813	The SV and the Workers' Party have traditionally had many common values and positions in policy, but important areas have also been separated. We want to work together to get to a center-left plural. Cooperation shall be based on the fact that there are distinct parties with different positions in different areas, but that compromises are found in ways of dealing with those issues, which allow us to take responsibility for at least the broad lines of the centre-left: community and fair distribution. One of the areas in which we have had different positions is the issue of the EU. SV has been an opponent. The Labour Party has been a follower both in 1972 and 1994, and we have a programme that says that we want freedom of action, have the opportunity to re-examine the EU case when we think it is right in the light of developments in Europe and developments in Norwegian opinion. There appears to be something happening in Norwegian opinion, although one should be careful to interpret individual measurements too strongly. At least there has been a growing trend towards more people wanting membership — a majority in the last measurement. My question to SV is whether it is conceivable that they can reconsider their position on EU membership. I find it more difficult and difficult to understand that it is particularly radical or social democratic or socialist to be against a community, a cooperation, in Europe. In the past, the EU consisted of six countries, the richest countries in Europe. Now enlargement will come, and we will experience in one or two years that the EU may consist of something like 25 countries – Europe, Eastern and Western Europe as a whole. The old pan-European cooperation that SV, on the left, talked about in the 1970s and 1980s, is now being realised through the EU, and then it is difficult to see political arguments to stand out from the great cooperation. The EEA Agreement is an agreement on economic participation, but not on political participation, in the EU, and in Europe it is now that more and more right parties are opposed to the EU, while the left parties are in favour. Is there something that makes SV think about and at some point change meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e822	This is a matter in which I believe that the Workers' Party and SV have to note that we are going to disagree. This is also an area where there is disagreement between the government parties in the current government. I think that's a disagreement that can be solved. I think there may be more in SV who may be a member of a Norwegian EU membership when the debate comes up again. I guess the situation with us will be like that of the Workers' Party, but with the opposite sign. That is, the large majority of the party is opposed, but with room for yes-people, just like the Workers' Party is a yes-party, but with room for no-people. And it is not really determined by EU enlargement, although it is important, because it can also change the EU in relation to what the Union really is. My assessment is this: Norway is a small country that neither gets bigger nor smaller by being a member of the EU. But our small voice can actually be used more effectively in an international society if we are outside the EU. The role that Norway played in Johannesburg would not have been possible in the same way if we had been a member of the EU. There are many other examples of the same thing. It is therefore useful for the international community to have a Western, a Nordic, voice on the outside of the EU. Point 2: I deeply disagree with economic and monetary union, and it would be very damaging for Norway, which has economic recessions due to the oil going across the EU, to be a member and join the euro. That would mean that we must have tightened up massively in public spending. Point 3: I fundamentally disagree with a political structure that makes very many people feel that they have nothing to do with the construction, that is. the European Union’s elite project and the fact that very few ordinary EU citizens are able to deal with the decisions taken at EU level. It is a democratic deficit that I believe is one of the most serious problems in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e836	It was once again fun to hear the comments of the representative Kristin Halvorsen on Norwegian policy. However, it would have been interesting once to hear an article that presented SV's alternative policy. In the contributions of Kristin Halvorsen, we have heard a powerful attack on the values of the Government in relation to the poor. This is strange, given that this government is the first after the Second World War to actually present an action plan to combat poverty in Norway, a poverty which, because of its wealth, is so infinitely tough in society. Especially the children who grow up in poor families and therefore have an extra great opportunity to become poor themselves, are hit hard. This poverty is a result of a social policy that has been more concerned with supporting everyone, regardless of income and wealth, than with helping those who really need it. In this budget, the government shows the ability to give priority to poverty, intoxication, psychiatry, the introduction of a ceiling of 2 for the chroniclers and the reduction of the excesses for both dental treatment and rehabilitation institutions. No one but the government has done this before. One takes a strong lift, and one takes a priority. Prioritizing here also means that one has to downgrade other things. With the strong claims that Kristin Halvorsen made, there is therefore every reason to examine SV's proposals in the fight against poverty. In general, there are general schemes that help everyone. Let me take a few examples: SV suggests free schoolbooks to everyone instead, as the government suggests, a proper support scheme for those who need it. With the SV model, it will take many years before you have established lending schemes that provide equal access for young people to school books. The government comes up with a solution in 2003 that gives children of poor ability to own their own books in the same way as everyone else. I think it means more than one book SV and the Labour Party managed to give them last year. SV prioritizes maximum tariff for kindergartens for all. This will give a family with 520,000 kroner in income 30 000 kroner to spend, as Kristin Halvorsen says, on “sus and sobs”. What is SV's desire to fight poverty? Does she continue to believe that helping everyone is equally helpful, or is it really a contribution to maintaining and reinforcing the differences in this country? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e851	The President must point out that speaking time is to be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e854	Now we are at the heart of what is the difference in SV's way of thinking about combating poverty, and what is the Right Way of thinking about combating poverty. We don't want the poorest to have to go somewhere to get school books or money for school books. We know that in a society where material consumption is as high as in us, and how many have it very well, it is linked to shame not having money for the other. There are a lot of people who hesitate to go to the places where this money is going to be collected. We don't want people to have – what do we say? - That stamp in your forehead. In addition, we know that what is most effective in combating poverty among, for example, the EU. children and young people, providing a free school where there is no constant demand for money, and ensuring that there are reasonable leisure opportunities that include everyone. It makes it possible to participate also for people who don't have much money, but they have to make it always visible that they have different finances. This is therefore a very important point. There's a big ideological difference between Right and SV. We don't want a charity society where the poor have to walk around and prove that they're poor, and so few contributions from the state. We want an inclusive society where you don't have to constantly ask what people have of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e863	The representative Halvorsen and SV are constantly concerned with the environment and pollution. I have to admit that is good, because everyone is interested in having a better environment and cleaner air. But these are the realities of the day: taxes in Norway are increasing and increasing, while charges in Sweden are being reduced as Danes reduce their taxes, in order to avoid border trade with Germany, etc. We have a domino effect. In particular, the taxes on alcohol, food, petrol, cars and tobacco have led to endless queues and traffic on all our roads towards Sweden. How much pollution and increased fuel consumption this border trade entails, nobody knows. SV should be concerned with this pollution and the increased fuel consumption due to border trade, but here they are rather tame. Would the SV, in its draft budget, be in favour of tax cuts to reduce some of this border trade? In addition, SV is very concerned about the poor. Will not then reduce the level of charges, for example: electricity, annual charge on cars, etc. lead to greater relief for those who have little, versus those who have much?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e872	It may be that SV is proposing to reduce a fee or two in our state budget, but it is not going to be a priority task for us to reduce alcohol taxes, tobacco taxes or direct environmental taxes significantly. On the contrary, we believe that pollution should cost and that it is important. In fact, with regard to border trade, it is not particularly effective to reduce taxes in Norway significantly just because of it. This will mean a significant increase in the number of products that are harmful to health elsewhere in the country, and I do not see border trade as such a major problem. On the contrary, I think a lot of people prefer to take a trip to Sweden, at least if they live in border areas. What is the reason why goods cost less in Sweden than they do in Norway? Something is due to fees, but it is primarily because the Swedes earn on average 25 pst. less than us. And if that's how we want to have a standard of living at about the Swedish level, we're going to have to take the whole package of wage reduction as well. Then there is no special difference. What is important for SV in terms of charging policy is to get rid of some of the charges that it is not possible to explain why we have in 2002, for example. a document fee that you pay when buying a dwelling, which is difficult to explain from today's situation. But we want to clean up the very clear environmental taxes. The petrol in Norway is among the cheapest in Europe if we take our purchasing power into account, and it is probably fair to do when you're going to figure out how much things actually cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e883	Although this is not a financial debate, the government budget signals much of the undertone in the debate. The co-operation administration has put forward a tight budget that is now budgeting both favours and optimism in the business world, while at the same time having managed to clear the lead both when it comes to raising the weakest in own countries and the weakest and the poorest of the poorer in the rest of the world. In addition, the budget also includes a radical improvement in the conditions for voluntary teams and organisations such as: provides a major effort in the field of work among children and young people and in the fight against bullying and freezing. The money exists, says Kristin Halvorsen often and has creative suggestions for using oil money without leading to inflation, unemployment or other misery. SV has enough money. Nevertheless, the party's relationship to oil revenue is somewhat double. On the one hand, the environmental party SV will reduce investment in oil business and thus give us less revenue. At the same time, SV competes with the Progress Party to make the Norwegian economy entirely dependent on oil revenues. When SV has found itself in several major cases together with the Progress Party, and when the party also has some of the same approach when it comes to the use of petroleum revenues, my question is: When the noise of the throne and the state budget has settled, is SV prepared to continue its part of the extensive case for cooperation with the Progress Party? In addition, I have to ask: is it how one could get the impression yesterday that SV really wants to reintroduce the investment tax, with the consequences this will have for jobs around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e892	It is completely wrong to say that the economic policy of the SVs and the Progress Party is the same. But it's right to say that the SV uses when we discuss oil money and the use of oil money, is that the most important thing we can do is take responsibility for the fact that those who come after us take on something better than what we ourselves got from the generation before us. It means investing in knowledge and education, investing in research, making sure that we have more legs to stand on when the oil ends, saving on oil by not pumping it up as quickly and – getting the oil money on book and letting it light up, so that it is tempting for some and everyone to use them to increase consumption – which is one of the best ways to do it. In addition, a more stable expansion and extraction of oil will lead to much better management of the skills of that part of the labour market. SV does not have a comprehensive case-by-case cooperation with the Progress Party, but together with the Progress Party and the Workers Party, we have provided a majority for the largest child care reform introduced over a long period of time. We are very proud of that because not only we, but the Christian People's Party and many other parties were in the election campaign and promised about the same thing that these conciliators have now done. The Christian People's Party should be happy about that too. As far as the investment fee is concerned, my opinion is as follows: if we were to start with blank papers for 2003, this hall would not, in fact, be prioritised to spend NOK 6 billion to remove an investment tax that the industry enjoys very little. It is the industry that is mainly in trouble because of high dollar rates and interest rates per year. the investment levy should be reintroduced today, for it was terminated on 1 October. [[President clubs]] I actually think that a lot of people agree with me that if we were to start off with blank papers for 2003, it would be much more important to spend money at school than spending $6 billion to bring down the investment tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e901	Once again, the President must clarify this with the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e904	The centre party and SV have common criticism of today's government in a number of important areas – and thank you for that! As far as district policy is concerned, we want to preserve the housing pattern we have and to allocate money to it. In the case of the local economy: we want more money for school, kindergarten and the elderly, and we want money for it. In terms of distribution policy: we want a different tax policy, and we want to make better use of weak groups through distribution. We also had common criticism of labor party government at this point, and I believe that both parties are equally credible in these areas. I believe, as Djupedal mentioned earlier today, that we have also been involved in changing the course of the Workers' Party quite a lot in these areas. Then there is increased cooperation, which increases the weight of our criticism, because the Labour Party has then joined the same party as us. But then I notice that when SV talks about this topic – about who they agree with – they so easily omit the Center Party from that suggestion, now at the end of the reply on the nursery agreement. This also applies when it comes to what government we can get in the next period, after the people discover what is happening. So my question is, why is SV so careful not to mention the Senter party among those they agree with? So on another theme: We were together with SV in the fight against EU membership. We have kept Norwegian kroner, and Norway's Bank is under our instructions. The centre party has now proposed that more emphasis be placed on employment and production when setting interest rates, taking into account the current instructions. SV has also been critical and agrees with LO that inflation should not be subject to such unilateral emphasis when setting interest rates. There may be reason to ask whether the market is working as it is said. Question: Will SV support this proposal from the Central Party to clarify the interest rate instruction?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e916	There is no reason why SV and the undersigned should not mention the Central Party in the same breath when talking about what might be the alternative to a right-wing dominant government under the whip of the Advance Party at the next big shot. On the contrary, we want to cooperate with the Center Party, even though in this situation, in this Stortinget, they do not have decisive influence. SV was even in this situation during the previous ageing period. I have a great deal of compassion for my good friends in the Center Party. It is a hard time not to be able to decide a majority, but it can also be used as an opportunity to develop policies. We did that when we had the opportunity, and so can the Center Party. Then it might be a new spring for the Center Party as well. I think there are many areas in which the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV could cooperate well. When I do not mention the central part of the draw on the nursery agreement, it is because I have actually seen that the centre party has sent out a little different signals about the content of the nursery agreement itself and what you stand for with regard to it. But if that's 100 pst. on it, I am very pleased with it. With regard to the Bank of Norway and its instructions, Øystein Djupedal has an interpellation on Tuesday next week on what kind of criteria should be used and what should govern the Bank of Norway and the determination of the interest rate. Then I hope we can get a real discussion about it. SV was, as you know, opposed to the way in which the instructions of the central bank are now interpreted. There is too little consideration for what is involved as if it were combating unemployment, and things other than a purely inflation target. But it was the Progress Party that got through this way to think about the powers and objectives of the central bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e925	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e928	In the previous post, the representative Halvorsen said that there was a chance in a throne speech to lift his eyes a little. She's quite right in that. On the other hand, I was a little surprised that lifting my eyes was largely criticised for some individual areas instead of seeing more superior to them than the representative Halvorsen did. Then I think first and foremost about the international perspective that I'm used to, that SV really has. When this cooperative government was established, SV and the Labour Party said that it was impossible to imagine an offensive development policy with a government in which the Right was involved, and that it was impossible to imagine a government with an offensive environmental policy in which the Right was involved. Policy has shown that this government is perhaps the most offensive in a very long time on both of these areas. Therefore, I am a little disappointed with the debate, not that a criticism of the areas that are perceived to be weak in the budget – it should be lacking – but that one, for example. not take into account that we have the largest aid budget in history, that one does not take into account that one has actually followed up and that there are fresh funds of DKK 1.1 billion for the families of children, that district policy has been more offensive, and that one really has a stake in the volunteers of Norway. It's not the will of the opposition, and it disappoints me. I have quite as much respect for both history and the way that both the representative Stoltenberg and the representative Halvorsen like to argue. The Christian People's Party is based on a solid basis of value, which has been what has built our society for a thousand years, the Christian basis of value, which quite clearly says: man's unique value. It also gives us a responsibility in relation to next love and stewardship, which is what has been with us and promotes a welfare society. It's a pleasure, then, that one of these thrones is based on that value. That's what we're going to do on a number of other areas. For the Christian People's Party, family and care are important. It's going to be important, and we're going to fight for the core of society that the family is, and that can also reverse many of the negative social sections that a number of speakers have described earlier today. In fact, when it comes to development policy, there are marginal problems we are discussing in ourselves, versus the life relationships the masses – which are composed of individuals – have. Compared to the huge problem facing Europe, we are building a ‘Fortress Europe’ with fences and watch boats, and it is only by closing down that they themselves can make progress that ‘Fortress Europe’ can be rebuilt. It also applies to our own debate on refugee policy and immigration policy. There are some areas that really have a stamp here. Norway's free will has better times to meet. The $6,000 tax deduction can give a huge boost to Norway's volunteer. And what is that? Does it apply only to hobbies? No, it was really those who were driving the welfare community to a great extent through a abstinence, a Christian layman's movement, a worker's movement, and a cooperative movement. Reconstructing the vitality of the voluntary Norway is a basis for improving the well-being of the community and getting rid of the confusion that loneliness has created in our society. So this government seems to be doing something about it. Then one has also been freed from the simplification of the form field and other bureaucratic regulations to make it easier to set up businesses. It shoots speed, and it works. Then there is also a discussion in this budget in relation to the working line. Here it's clearly an ideological illustrative. It seems to be a dividing line. Many of us are in many areas in favour of general tools. But when it comes to the poorest in Norway, the general tools have not solved their problems. Then I would wish that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were willing to go into this discussion, and then see, is there anything about the target correction that can actually do that? And likeins: Is it possible to think that here we can find mechanisms that do not give us the negative consequence that the representative Kristin Halvorsen has just said, that it can be an old poor box if you don't control wisely? But when it comes to the measures ahead, the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, will have trouble showing which one can end up like this. I can't see it, but I'm willing to take that debate. So the government has a main problem when it comes to the free money. The automatic cost increases are the main reason for that. The labor party government has been tried, the center government has been tested, and there is also a problem with the current government. So, you can bring down the Sandman selection center editor to see the width of this. They came up with a series of suggestions that made up a whole world. It is strange, then, that those who at one time thought it necessary to try to get a turn from passive social security to work should see this as a problem. I am not at all referring to the origin of the proposals, and not to the fact that they have a doctor in Stortinget since June. Suddenly, this is something unsocial that has come into the budget. The reality is that one here is also trying to find another way to give the world to man, just at work. The Christian People's Party and the Government are open to discuss whether these measures alone are good enough, or whether they need to be supplemented, but the idea is that people should use their abilities and forces to work instead of passive social security reception. There aren't many places I'm as united with Marx as when he says: Work is involved and makes human dignity fully functional. It was not a quite correct quote, so I'll come back to the correct quote if it should be wanted. What is also important in this budget is that we take seriously what a whole business life has said to us, that now we have to be able to do something about the dollar rate and the interest rate. They want a tight budget. Yes, the government has taken it seriously, and then she has delivered it. When the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, stands here and says that this budget is not so tight at all, I would wish that she would get a few weeks in government during the budget negotiations to see how tight it is, and how many have actually had to wait for important measures to be tight enough, not because one is not willing to put the measures in place, but because the competitively exposed industry is actually going to be allowed to live on. I think we are some of them quite so wide that we also need a competitive industry in the future. The last point I want to mention is that one strengthens the research, and one gets a tighter bond between basic research and research in the business world. A tax deduction in this area makes it possible and interesting for companies to renew production. For as long as industrial employment has been in existence, it has been necessary to renew production in order to succeed in achieving objectives. I hope that now when one goes into a further debate on budgetary work, one can actually discuss the problems that are here, and that it won't be as I see it, even though I'm going to admit that it's subjective, that one is so one-sided in black paint on some sides that one completely forgets the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e954	The President did not assume that the representative Lilletun knew his Marx so well that he would even further elaborate the ‘quote’ in a later article. We're looking forward to it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e959	I noticed in the speeches by the representative Lilletun that he is disappointed that the opposition does not praise the budget, that we do not, in a sense, use the debate to refer to the government's list of boasts. The problem is that the show list isn't that obvious much to boast of. When you boast that you're straightening out a little bit of the big cuts you made in the district policy for the current year, and then you call it a bet, when you boast that you're bringing back some of the many jobs you've removed from Aetat this year, and then it's called a bet, and then you don't have to expect it to be boasted, because it's not something to boast about. It is easy to forgive the representative Lilletun that he stumbled into quoting Marx. But it is not on Marx that I should challenge the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party. It's on distribution policy. It has been said many times from this pulpit of representatives from the Workers' Party and from representatives from the Christian People's Party that the Christian People's Party is closer to the Workers' Party than to the Right in many important issues of distribution. I still think most of us think so. The government's policy now demonstrates that the distance between the Workers' Party and the Right in matters of distribution is great, and we also see that it is the Right that has been allowed to express this government's policy in that area, unfortunately. Unfortunately for the unemployed, who lose the right to earn $50,000 in addition to social security, unfortunately for the unemployed, who lose $200,000 if they are unemployed for one year and, unfortunately, for the disabled and elderly, who lose the exemption from the medical allowance on a blue prescription. We have tried to challenge the Right today, and we have not received a good answer. I would like to hear the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party give his explanation. I would like to hear the Christian People's Party's explanation for these types of proposals. Does the representative, Lilletun, realize that this completely undermines the Government's efforts to be credible in taking care of those who have difficulties?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e973	Now, the representative Hill-Marta Solberg could have moved on to what she called the show list. It wasn't just the creation of any previous cut, but innovations of quite a significant dimension, which, in fact, when it comes to psychiatry, assistance and family, are far above what has been of innovations in the past. So that one asks concrete questions about some budget lines and is disappointed that one has not received an answer from the government party before. Then I could replicate that when I took up such big, basic things as cash support as principle, and the investment fee, the representative Stoltenberg was not willing to go into a budget debate in detail. But I'm going to answer anyway, because I don't have to go on the same line as the representative Stoltenberg. What the government is doing here is developing work instead of other performances. I said in my main post that we agree to discuss whether we have hit the whole device here. But what I actually thought was that the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Cooperation Government were a few things about, was that it was important that we used some of the measures that have been outlined so that people can get into work, primarily for their own sake, but also because society needs that workforce. There is therefore a fundamental principle underpinning here, and then the Christian People's Party and the Government are involved in discussing the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e982	The representative Jon Lilletun started his speech by talking about values and human dignity, and sometimes when one listens to central politicians from the Christian People's Party, one is left with the impression that the Christian People's Party should have exclusive rights to the right values and the right human vision. It's not like that. We all have our values, and we also have our human vision. I just wish that all the political parties in this process would in particular make their view of humanity and values more decisive to help the weakest in this society. The government budget presented in the health and social sector is striking the weakest in society very strongly. I mention the blue recipe, cloudy excesses, which have never been higher before, and that the ill-satisfied are deprived of the possibility of additional income, which greatly improves the quality of life of the individual social welfare recipient. The excavator stand is removed – the survivors must be stigmatised and forced onto the poor box even in such a situation. My question to the representative Jon Lilletun will be as follows: Are the budget cuts to the weakest of us compatible with the values and human vision of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e991	First of all, I would like to say that I can't think that either I or the Christian People's Party have ever tried to patent or take monopoly on a Christian value basis. We thought it was great if there were more people who wanted to align their policies with a Christian view, with the consequences that it should have. When it comes to devices in the areas mentioned by the representative John Alvheim, I wasn't aware that the Progress Party was generally opposed to targeting a number of social benefits. Because what we're actually doing when it comes to gravitational support is we're trying to complete it with an average for those who need it, while those of us who haven't had it in connection with our parents dying, don't get the same payment. So it's actually an attempt at a targeting, and I don't think that can be across the sense of value that I'm so lucky to be allowed to represent. In relation to the blue recipe and the other areas, I would like to quote from a ‘Valgholmgang’. I'd like to quote Hill-Marta Solberg first: The current government – Labour Party Government – has put forward a very concrete proposal on the merits – which is important – which means that disabled people and pensioners over 67 years of age save about 450 million kroner that they currently pay in prob... Then John Alvheim answers: This is a solid bluff – a solid professional bluff – that you can't sit to defend. Had I had time I should have put on the table numbers after numbers. If you had given free medicine to chroniclers... and not just those on blue prescription... What was the point here, in fact, was what we have now tried to follow up in our Roof 2 system, that the major consumers actually get a better situation, while some others get a worse situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1010	I think that the representative Lilletun must find that the non-subscribers volunteer to the Christian People's Party PR department. That's how the cards are divided. Second, I would have loved to have a Bible quotation to sign out this Marx quotation with. But I don't think I'm entirely taking the chance, despite ten years, I think, at Sunday school in the island of Porsgrund. So to the matter. So I can't make it link up with the fact that you're reducing the opportunity that the disabled have to earn in addition to their social security – from $50,000 to $50,000 – and say that it's the line of work, because this means that very many of those who can now have some income from work – who make them have social contact with a working life, which allows them to speculate on a social security that is often very low from before – may give up that job instead of being stimulated to work more. This has to be the opposite of what's behind the line of work. So one question: how long is the Christian People's Party going to last in a minority position, first in government with the Right, where the Right has the majority of the councils – and I'm guessing that that means that they must first fight a round with the Right to get through for their heart matters, for example. aid – and then in Stortinget the same round once again on the Christian People's Party's heart matters? And so it will be as long as there are minority governments who do not have an obligating cooperation with a majority in the Stortinge behind them. It is the Christian People's Party that has – what to say – the Progress Party as a kind of support when it suits Carl I. Hagen, who got Kjell Magne Bondevik as Prime Minister because it fits Carl I. Hagen, who has answered various questions from the Progress Party when it suits Carl I. Hagen, but who does not have a majority in the Chamber who takes responsibility for what is the political breakthroughs in relation to the Government. How long does the Christian People’s Party last?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1019	Yes, in fact, both Lilletun and the Christian People's Party are quite persevering. Now not all of us look like we often run the New York Marathon, but I can promise the representative of the Halvorsen: we will continue to fight for both the values we stand for and for the priorities we have, within the government and also here in the Stortinget. I didn't expect Kristin Halvorsen to come with me in any way, but I actually expected her to give honey in those places where there was a reason for it. I have often given Mr Halvorsen credit for the areas where she has actually contributed to the political debate and also where she has contributed to proposals which have been constructive and which have actually created a number here in the Chamber which have given a better environmental policy and, on a number of occasions, a better distribution policy. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that she now needs to stick us to the Progress Party and the political solutions they stand for. Of course, we are pleased that Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party were our fathers – reason, they won't admit it, it was the midwife they were, and of course, everyone who is born is happy to have a midwife who made sure it went well. But just as the Progress Party won't be stuck to everything we do and decide, neither will we. Therefore, I thought maybe the representative Halvorsen here has gone into a track that doesn't lead to a target any place. And then we'll have to come back and see if we can find the appropriate Bible quotation on the excellent cooperation budget that has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1029	I like to listen to Jon Lilletun, but after his article today, I thought there is a reason to ask one question: What has happened to the Christian People's Party? The government has presented an action plan on poverty. That's so good. It's also high time. The size decided on such a plan in the context of the treatment of the anti-sampling message more than two years ago. The Smoothing Message was provided by the Bondevik I Government. It was a document in which the Christian People's Party and the Central Party were united by five strategies to counteract differences. We agreed on proposals for measures to improve the conditions for those with difficulty of a total of 2 billion kroner. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of will in the United Kingdom to implement these measures. And now Bondevik II proposes 335 million. kr to follow up some of these suggestions. But at the same time, they're making suggestions on how to frame the people they want to help. That's why they're owed to give with one hand and take the other back with them. And they're not just repeating, they're taking five again. There is no doubt that those who want to label the most expensive medicines and tightening up their daily allowance and disability are those who are already having difficulty making it go around. Right will screen the rich, that's no news. 500 million. In addition to the billions that ran out last year, it is a good right-wing policy. But what has happened to the Christian People's Party, the Christian People's Party that was behind the anti-diversity message, with a fairer tax system as an important strategy? Is the action plan against poverty an example of the right-wing victory in the Government? Or has the Christian People's Party actually changed its policy in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1041	First, I want to say that I have great respect for my former and current colleague Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and her commitment to weak groups and for people who need proper community action in general. Then ask the representative Meltveit Kleppa if something has happened with the representative Lilletun and with the Christian People's Party. Yeah, I hope something happens to us all the time, that we're actually in a development. But in relation to the main principles contained in that message, nothing has happened. It's a little too light when Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa makes this top estimate change as if it's giving to the richest. There's actually a limit of approx. NOK 350 000. There's quite a number of people who are looking up to it. And the ones that have the largest subtraction, the base subtraction, are the ones that tend to be the least. The housing tax has a device that actually is such that it's the least likely that it's best to get out. It also applies to the voluntary organizations, as I know Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and the signatures are some if important in today's society. The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was also involved in putting down the Sandman selection. It's not like that – it could also be the answer to the previous replicator – that we take away the unemployed. What we want is that they're going to get into work so they're not unemployed anymore, so that one gets a circulation here. I have always said that we are willing to discuss the arrangements for this, but that everyone jumps away from what they have been doing before and that they have asked for the Government to come along, it surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1050	I have listened to Lilletun, who had several headlines, including: based on the importance of the value base. I agree with Mr Lilletun on that. And he went on to say that targeted action was very important. I won't distance myself from that either. But I have to say that this government has been unusually accurate in, among other things. three targeted actions: work for the disabled and the way in which they are to enter the labour market – there are dramatic cuts there. You've been very precise and focused on the basis of your daily allowance and the device on it, which will definitely affect those who need it the most. One has been cash and focused on the equity system – fully targeted. I have to ask the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party in Stortinget: why have we not been so focused on cash support? It would have been easier to be more focused on the cash support, but everyone should get the same in any case. But for the weakest, you were so focused and sure that it almost doesn't work! I also agree with Mr Lilletun that we should discuss the problems that lie here. He also initially said that he should look up a little. I totally agree with him on that. I believe that the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party should also take a look at the parliamentary situation in the Grand Duchy. The representative was concerned with predictability and certainty of results. But can Lilletun cope with the parliamentary situation in order to increase predictability and certainty? As it works today, the government's policy hangs in the loose air. In what direction will Lilletun go in order to obtain predictability and certainty of results and provide a basis for government policy in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1061	If it is the case that this Government hangs in the loose air, I will say that there are many labor party governments that have been hanging there for a long time! For reality, almost from Nordli’s time – or perhaps from Gerhardsen’s – the general rule for the Workers’ Party also has our minority governments. The representative Stoltenberg said earlier today that they had a more organized relationship with the Stortinget. That's not right at all! They have been lucky and had a center that has been a constructive opposition, and that has been willing to take responsibility, but they have had no agreement with the center that they should be the basis of government in any way. One might say that the center part has our midwives too, to keep us to that language. So to this criticism that this government's policy should be suspended, I must say that in that case it has many airy sleep! When it comes to what was the introduction to the Nordtun representative, that we've been incredibly precise, I'll ask you a question back. I have a lot of understanding of that blueprint system that many disapproves and minimum pensioners thought was very good, but at the same time it was so that she was completely targeted. Is it true that in general, pensioners have poorer economies than small children's families? Well, we know that it's not like that. On the other hand, there are a number of different services that have not been included under the ownership 1 scheme, but that are now included under the ownership 2 scheme. This applies, for example: dental treatment and rheumatoid or psoriatic spacers to the South that need it for their health. It's targeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1070	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1073	Let me start by saying that I don't know if I have so much to add to the murder bat that's been going on here, but as an ambulance driver over 20 years, I've gained some experience. I hope, at least, that the births I've been with have not had as painful a result as it seems that the birth of Carl I. Hagen has assisted, has gradually been given. I meet almost daily people who ask me the following: How is it possible that, now that we are a rich country, we are not able to take care of what we have built through generations? Why do we drop school buildings, roads and railways? How can it be that we are not able to give our elderly the care and care that they are entitled to? Why can't we afford to have a post office today when we could afford it when we were a poor country? I am also asked why it has become so that each post office has to be profitable. That's how I can so far continue to raise questions that I, and certainly many of you who are sitting in this room, get. What do we answer to this? That's because we have to adopt a tight budget, or because of the underlying increase in expenditure, interest or crown price. Because we have to conduct a responsible budgetary policy, or because we did not find room for more. Or what about the variant: because we had to take over so many unpaid bills after the previous government that there was no room for more. The truth is, of course, a completely different one. The evolution that we are now witnessing does not depend on a mountain. It is the result of conscious political choices — choices that are well visible in the Government’s 2003 draft budget. Private sector growth is expected to be seven times higher than in the public sector. Seven times higher! Measured in crowns, this is equivalent to NOK 23 billion in private sector growth compared to DKK 1.6 billion in the public sector. In 2003, we're going to spend every five dollars of what we produce in the country for common consumption. With the exception of the years 1998 and 1999, this proportion has fallen each year over the last 10 years. The outcome of this policy can be seen around us. We see that services are being built up. It's not possible, as Right claims, both to give tax relief and a better school. Now we didn't really promise Right a better school for everyone, but we must be allowed to assume that that's what they founded on their election vows. Despite our wealth, despite the fact that this is the situation, and despite an oil fund that will continue to grow in the years to come, we have to make some choices. It is not possible to prioritise strong growth in private consumption, strong growth in the private sector and, on the other hand, to maintain and expand services in the public sector. Strong growth in private consumption will be at the expense of the public sector and will lead to what we can all now see around us: municipalities must cut welfare offers, schools get less money, there will be less money for elderly care, there will be less cultural provision, less for youth clubs, less for sports activities for children and youth and for music schools. The government has made its choice: we're going to get more in our own wallet through tax reliefs, but in return we have to find ourselves paying more in the form of self-esteem in more and more areas. Those who become unemployed will get less, those who need medicine will have to pay more themselves, those who have their children in a school holiday scheme will have to pay more, and those who have high costs of sickness will get less of these expenses. On the other hand, the tax relief goes primarily to those of us who have medium or high incomes already. In return, the government will make it easier to start private schools, private hospitals, private care for the elderly and other forms of private welfare services where the wallet for the individual will eventually determine what kind of school services our children will receive, what kind of care our older people will receive, or what healthcare we will afford. If we have not been so lucky to have an employer with good private insurance schemes that can buy us in the queue – with deductions. And on the other hand, while introducing deductions and tax exemptions for those who are paid health care by their employer, the possibility of deducting those who are chronically ill and who pay this out of their own income is limited. In sum, this is an unsocial and unsolidarian policy, which is far from what the Central Party will contribute to. The public sector is far from flawless. Of course, it is not entirely without reason that many experience the meeting with a public office as a meeting with a multi-headed troll that has the most important task of making life difficult for those who need help. But despite shortcomings and mistakes, and despite the need to work to correct them: the decline we now see in the public sector, with school closures, with cuts in the care of the elderly and with the challenges facing the health system is a policy that goes in the opposite direction – what we now see is a policy for increasing differences. The wallet and the place of residence will determine what kind of offer you will receive. Therefore, the Centre Party considers it necessary to strengthen the revenues of municipalities, and it is necessary to allow municipalities to retain a greater share of the money at their disposal in a municipality – not to send them to the state as Carl I. Hagen suggests, but to keep them, so that each municipality can prioritize the tasks it considers to be most important. Carl I. Hagen later on, it's like everything's gonna get better if the state gets the money. That's not right. If that were the case, we should not experience a defense in crisis, we should not experience an NSB in crisis, we should not experience great under-allocation and great under-coverage in the road sector. Nor should we experience that around the country we are now discussing the closure of local hospitals, the closure of emergency wards and the closure of maternity wards in hospitals, if it was right as Carl I. Hagen said that all the priorities in this room were the best priorities that this country can get. Carl I. Hagen's got what he wants in the hospital sector. The state has taken over, and we see that the problems are some of the same as before. It's not enough to distribute, it's not enough to make sure that we have a public sector that can give us all of the services we need, the service we should have. We also have to create values before we can divide the values. In the opinion of the Centre Party, people will be far poorer if we put ourselves in a position to finance oil wealth more and more in consumption, where the product-producing part of the business becomes the loser. Fisheries, the fishing industry, the farming industry, agriculture, the food industry, the workshop industry, the woodworking and metal industry – yes, at all, the export-oriented industry will lose in areas where we have natural advantages to drive industrial development, and jobs will disappear if we are to pursue a policy that primarily aims to increase consumption and not to create values. On this basis, the Central Party took the initiative of a broad political settlement to strengthen the competitiveness of this part of the economy. I hope it can be possible to come up with political decisions that mean that we can say that we have an industrial policy, that we can say that we have an industrial policy that is something other than just giving tax relief and hoping that business neutrality will come in the areas where it should come. It doesn't work that way. We need to have a targeted enterprise policy that facilitates us to take advantage of the natural advantages that we as a nation have been granted. We can afford, as Carl I. Hagen said in his post, to have a worthy care for the elderly. We can afford to provide a proper school for our kids. We also have the opportunity to make sure that those who have the most difficulty, those who are ill or excluded from work in some way, can get better, not even worse. We can also afford to let married pensioners keep their full pension. But that means that we have to make some choices. We can't solve all of these problems at once. We can't both make it easier for the weakest to get better and at the same time give great tax relief to those of us who have the best. We have to make some political choices. We need to be able to give priority. It's not possible to solve all of these problems using more oil money. Also in a rich country, we need to be able to say no to something in order to solve other important tasks. For the Central Party, it will now be the most important task to be able to secure a proper school for our young people, to ensure proper care for the elderly, to provide the municipalities with the income they need in order to develop the common offers and welfare goods that we want to call about. We want to prioritise business, so that we will have safe and good jobs in the future to have something to live on even when oil comes to an end in the future. We are also going to have a distribution policy that means that the weakest do not get worse: we are going to continue to pay taxes according to our ability, so that those who have the most should also contribute the most to the community, and those who have the most difficulty in getting a raise. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives, where we ask the Government to provide an annual statement on the status of alleviating disparities and combating poverty. I think it'll be a good step on the way to discussing the need to put in place strong measures, just to prevent us from getting more and more differences, that more and more people are going to get more, while more and more are going through.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1109	The representative, Mr Enoksen, has drawn up the proposal he has made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1114	The representative Enoch had a good review, which I can mainly join. But there was something that was not said, and I would like an answer from the Center Party. As I see it as the Center Party, it's concerned about small businesses. We know that the main problem in Norway is that we have an oil economy that creates a strong dollar and high interest rates. It makes companies have to fly out or drop. If Norway had been a member of the EU, we would have 3.25 pst. interest, and 70 pst.-80 pst. the exporting industry would have a single currency, the euro, and thus no problems with the krona. The Central Party sees the problems such as: the fisheries processing industry and the partly processed agricultural industry are struggling with this? Is the views of the Central Party on the EU just as firm, despite the problems of business? Does the Central Party not see that the EU is now becoming a pan-European issue? A European defence union is now slowly being built. Is this important to the Center Party? And does it concern Enoch, who is a member of the Defence Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1121	I have to say that I was somewhat surprised when the representative Stoltenberg instead asked Kristin Halvorsen whether it could be thought that SV would change its position in the EU case. I hoped that the same question would also be addressed to the Center Party, in the spirit of the co-operation invitation. In order to clarify this, it would be entirely inappropriate for the Centre Party to sit in a government with an EU membership objective or with the intention of applying for EU membership. There are very small chances that the Centre Party will change its view on the EU issue. It is absolutely right that strong dollar rates and high interest rates are major challenges for Norwegian business. It's a task we elected people have a responsibility to try to do something about if we want to have a value-creating business in the future as well. In fact, however, EU membership does not solve these challenges overall. It can solve the challenges for business, but it will also go at the expense of other things that I think both myself and Gunnar Halvorsen are equally concerned about. This would mean that we would stimulate even more growth in the private sector if we had now had an interest rate of 3.25 pst. This would mean that we would have further enhanced the evolution we are now seeing. And we would have only one way to counteract such a development: even stronger cuts in the appropriations for school, even stronger cuts in the appropriations for care for the elderly, for health, etc. Then, of course, extended EU membership presents us with some challenges. This concerns access to the market for fish, which is one of our most important exports. There we also have a responsibility to make sure that we do what we can, so that we get as good market access as possible. We also have some challenges in terms of defence cooperation. But it will always be that NATO will form the pillar of defence cooperation. The transatlantic axis cannot be weakened, and Norway shall be an active co-player, an active precursor of NATO cooperation, in order to ensure the security of the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1135	Meg Famous was never laid down more post offices than when Johan J. Jakobsen was Minister of Transport, so neither on this issue is life and learning so simply. The Enoch comes from Coast Norway, so do I. Enoxene comes from business, so do I. This is where the equations end. I have discovered that Coast-Norway is losing on high interest rates and high interest rates. I have also discovered that this is the very basis for the well-being and settlement that we have in Coast Norway, and not the public economy. It appears that the centre party is no longer involved. We still hear demands for increased expenditure. In fact, Enoksen was in the business world at its inception here, but he was largely concerned with increasing public expenditure. Traditionally, this isn't what the Center Party we know, so they're actually not going to recognize. We can establish that this has clearly become a lost policy of the Central Party. My question to the Zenterpartiet and Enoxsen will then be whether, with his background, he does not agree that it is precisely the conditions of competitive business, and in particular this concerns District Norway, where we are so sensitive to fluctuations, which are the basis of safe communities, and not increasing public expenditure that pressure people to move or to drop.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1147	I would like to reiterate that it was actually signed that earlier in the autumn took the initiative of a broad political settlement, precisely to do what is possible to avoid the loss of jobs in competitive business. The Central Party has also taken the initiative to clarify the mandate in the interest rate instructions, also in order to contribute not only to inflation, but also to the consideration of passports and business considerations that are to weigh heavily in the interest setting of the Governor. I think it's absolutely necessary to do that type of grip. I am both the joint owner and director of a company that operates a significant export-oriented business. So it's not for the reason I've taken the initiatives I've taken towards the competitive industry, but it shows that the people of the Central Party also have a strong anchor in industry and business and sees the importance of being able to create jobs in this area in the future as well. But then it's not like a tight budget needs to be a tight budget for the public sector. It doesn't have to mean that we're going to drop school classes, that we're going to cut senior care, that we're going to cut health care – it's actually possible to make some priorities. This government has prioritised growth in private consumption by 3.5 pst. against growth in the public sector by 0.5 pst. There are clear political choices in which private consumption is given priority over having a proper school, a proper care for the elderly and a proper health service. One could have done this a little differently by the fact that those of us who can afford it could have contributed a little bit more to the community without the budget being more expansive for that reason, without that leading to a worsening situation for Norwegian business. That's the kind of choice we have to make. We have to ask whether we are willing to finance a Community sector to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities for a good school and for care of the elderly, regardless of income and regardless of where they live, or whether we are going to have good offers for a few who can pay out of their own money book.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1155	I have gained clarity in Enoch’s view of EU membership. I was up here by day in the kingdom of Enoch, North Norway, and what amazes me a little, and not least pleased me, was that there was actually optimism in that part of the country. They saw the potential of all the resources available to this part of the country in terms of fish and fishery products. But what was the point was, give us the possibilities. One of the requirements was also: allow us to obtain the EU market for fish and fish products and provide us with stable framework conditions. Then it is quite important that we get hold of it, and we are missing that part of the market. And if we're going to get hold of that market, we're going to probably have to sacrifice a little bit, and then we're going to have to open our borders to imports of agricultural products from these countries. This may become even more important when we get an extension of the EU – not least Poland, one of our largest markets in the case of pelagic fish varieties such as mackerel and herring, enters the EU. They may also have quite a need to export their food. Then the question must be whether the Enoxsen and the Senterpartiet are willing to sacrifice a little on the agricultural side by opening up to imports of agricultural products from the EU in order to get to the market when it comes to fish. My claim is that there is something that will ensure the bus fare in our long-range country, it is fish and the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1162	I have to admit that I have a certain suspicion that this will be a reasonably faulty issue. The entire Norwegian market corresponds to a suburb of London and is hardly as an agricultural market crucial to the EU’s position on Norway. They themselves have been aware that what they want is not market access for agricultural products but access to Norwegian fishing resources. It will be important for the EU to have access to, not Norway as a market for agricultural products. We are in the forefront of the creation of a common EU fisheries resource management across the EU. To those who want EU membership and who believe that it is the solution to Norway's challenges: Think what it will mean for Norwegian fishing industry to become part of a common EU management of the total fishing resources we have, with the loss it will mean both for the fishing fleet and for the coastal fishing industry! It's true that there's optimism in North Norway. It is true that there is a willingness to invest in the fishing industry. And it is certainly also so that it is necessary to work to have as good market access for our fishery products to the countries to which we are exporting, as at all possible. There's a job that we're going to do in common, and the Center Party is also set to be involved. But, frankly, I don't think you can solve the challenges by putting one sector up against another, as the Progress Party is now calling for. Secondly, it is also important to be able to exploit the potential that exists in North Norway and in the rest of District Norway, that there is a willingness to do something more than the Right and Advance Party make up the voice of their industrial policy: one-sided focus on tax relief. It is necessary to be willing to invest in infrastructure in these areas, to invest in research and to invest funds over SND, among others. for innovation, to launch new businesses and to have budding shots in existing enterprises. This is what the business community is asking for more than anything else in this part of the country and also in the part of the country from which Lodve Solholm comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1176	Norway is at war in Afghanistan and has been so for most of the year since this war started. The debate on the throne is not very marked by that. Our war effort is significant and costs us several times as much as the humanitarian effort we have contributed in Afghanistan during the same period. By participating in sharp operations, as we are now doing, we are also at risk of risking our humanitarian credibility or capital. The war has its support in a very unclear UN mandate, which is now over a year old. The war is led by instruments that are very imprecise, such as bombing from fighter planes at very large heights, with great civilian losses as a result. Nobody on the allied side cares about counting the killed, whether they're civil or military enemies. The treatment of prisoners is under any criticism. The objectives of this war are also very imprecise. The Taliban is too far removed from power. The Al Qaida leaders are gone. But no one can say when the operations can be finished. My first question to the representative of Enoxen is whether the Central Party is still standing behind the wish of the great majority to join this war, and what goals must be achieved before the Central Party believes the war is ripe for its end. The next question relates to the security situation in Afghanistan. The Government of Afghanistan has requested that the bombing cease and that international society step up its efforts to ensure the security and stability of the new regime. There is a great need to strengthen safety also outside the Kabul area, where ISAF is stationed. Does the Swedish Central Party support the demand that Norway now step down its efforts in the sharp operations of Enduring Freedom and step up its efforts in the ISAF security force?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1196	The theme of the representative Bjørklund here is a theme that concerns many of us, and that should include many of us. I agree with the representative, Mr Bjørklund, that so far in the debate the fact that Norway is participating in these operations has been ignored in silence. Other speakers from the Central Party will come up with this later in the debate, I can promise, and it will be worth listening to. Of course, it's not unproblematic that we're going to participate in this type of operation. I would also like to add that the Centre Party, together with the SV, has contributed to an open debate on this participation in the Stortinget, and what should be Norway's commitment in the future. It's actually a prerequisite that when the operations that we've now committed ourselves to, with six fighter planes, are to be completed during the six-month period in which we're now in, the operations are to be completed. It will not be possible to be in this type of operation for too long in the future. I don't have enough detailed knowledge to say if you've achieved what you should achieve by participating in these operations. But I think, in fact, that the statement given so far has been reasonably satisfactory. And I also have to say that it seems that the follow-up and control of the Government at this point is quite reassuring. But when that's said, it's hard for us to make decisions that could contribute to the loss of human life. We have to do what we can, what's at all in our power, to avoid that happening. The fight against terrorism, which was the basis for Norway's participation, is an important fight, but it cannot go at the expense of anything. It cannot be implemented at any price. We intend to follow developments in Afghanistan closely and to participate in setting the necessary requirements for proper implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1214	It was a little strange to hear the head of the central party say that the municipalities now had to get more free money, when one was one of those who was involved in the decision that may have tied up most of the income of the municipalities in the coming years. But enough about it – we in the Christian People's Party will also cooperate in this area, for the benefit of children. We have seen over time and with changing governments that there have been ever more challenges in the districts. We in the Christian People's Party have been willing to join in thinking about district policy. Our goal is to create a policy that benefits the districts and gives them the opportunity to create the good life for themselves and their inhabitants that they deserve. Then we need value creation. Getting this done requires some concrete measures, such as district funds, which the Government has now proposed, and this district commission to be set down, which will turn all the stones and make a good deal of targeted action. You can't just compete to come up with all the world's beautiful minority proposals. Sometimes you also need to point out something concrete in order to get results in the districts. I record that the Center Party has now had to move partly into the populace's ranks and is willing to look now at the rule of action to get money to finance its lonely and partly decorative proposals. If I were to move out into the districts, it would be important for me to have a job to go to. The period that the press has insinuated that we only have vacations and do leisure activities, I have among other things. used to travel to some businesses in the districts, and they have a climactic clear message: you have to come up with an incredibly tight budget. And the small and medium-sized enterprises, which have a large proportion of jobs in the districts, say that the removal of the investment tax will be a good tool and a handshake for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1223	The District Commission is a good measure, to be commended by the SV for taking the initiative, and to the extent that it is also to be praised by the Government for grasping the straw straw it was. Unfortunately, it looks like it's going a little bit like that. The center party was afraid of, you take a very good time. I have to say that it is alarming that you have such a good time – when you know the developments around in District Norway – that you wait far beyond next year to appoint this district commission, which will then turn all the stones. Nor do I think it is particularly reliable that the district effort with a fund for investment in the districts is only a partial fixation of the cuts made by the government in the current year's budget. It is still a long way from the level of the district effort when the Cooperative Government took over a year ago. It's a fact. It is also a fact that the Christian People's Party recently took part in government with the Central Party in a government that was actually boasted of being one of the most innovative governments we've had for a long time in terms of district policy action, and a government that actually also showed in action the willingness to bet on district policy. So it's true that the Center Party has made suggestions to soften the rule of action. We have done that because we believe that the rule of action can actually be used more flexibly, not in the way that the Progress Party is talking about, where one believes that all good purposes can be financed in a short time by just cleaning out more oil money and at the same time providing great tax relief, but by using something more oil money targeted in areas where it can actually be possible to dampen the pressure in the economy. Some of the Norwegian industry's demand is also better trade, better ways to get goods to the market cheaper and faster. It will help and facilitate the situation for Norwegian business. It will also help and dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy if we get those in hospital queues out of this hospital queue faster and more productively. It will pay off, and it would reduce the pressure in the economy if you were willing to spend money on this. It is the type of targeted bet the Center Party is arranging for by embellishment of the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1230	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1233	It has also become a mouthhole today to say that Norway is the richest country in the world. In most contexts, there is the introduction of a complaint song all over the place we don't have, but it should have been worth it – followed by indignantness and a loud complaint against unruly politicians who haven't settled the matter too far. In the middle of all wealth, a discontent culture is built up, and expectations become sky-high. Some sun-clearly fair, others understandable, but in sum impossible against any conceivable financial framework. Yeah, we're about not the world's richest, so one of the richest countries. That means that we have all the opportunities to live a rich life and create a good society. But that doesn't mean that we can repeal political and economic laws – that we don't have to prioritise and housekeepers. We've never spent more money than we do now. Never have the complainants been higher, the use of words has been stronger. I think Norwegian politics and the climate in the societal debate would have been served with more moderation both in creating expectations and describing the society we actually live in. Neither do those who shout loudest, who need the most to be heard, and we in the Left think it's just as important to borrow ear to those who have little or no voice. That is why we are pleased to have a government that addresses the poverty problems, that addresses family violence, that addresses the criminal trafficking of both women and children, and that holds the aid tab high. It is a social policy – at the heart of the Left. We are very happy to be part of a government that has a clear environmental profile. It was one of the prerequisites for joining, and we have significantly changed the position of environmental policy in Norwegian policy when we now get a majority in important environmental matters together with SV. In the state budget there is a historic commitment to public transport in the big cities, and there is no doubt that it is the profits of the Left. We are also pleased to be part of a government that knows the need to create values to ensure well-being both in the short and long term. The government prioritises higher education, research, innovation and innovation both in the public and private sectors. It must be as natural to create one's own job as to be an employee of others. We need a positive entrepreneurial culture in this country, and that will help the Left. Our important words are environment, small businesses and social responsibility. The government is delivering in all these areas. The left has a mandate from the electorate which is stronger than that reflected in this Chamber. We have an important role to play as a social liberal party in Norwegian politics and as an important participant in a bourgeois government. We experience that we have influence and deliver results. We find it seaworthy that the opponents of the Government in this Chamber and beyond have tactical interests in minimizing both our and the Christian People's Party's influence in the Government. Any reasonable and factual analysis of the policy shows that it is just tactic, and that the Government has a balanced policy. I think maybe the Working Party and the parties that want to form government with them, can tone down a little bit of the tactical arrogance. It may happen that you meet yourself at the door one day, and then one will understand that no cooperation is based on dominance, but on respect. The respect required in cooperation becomes more credible if it can also be shown to political opponents. Democracy depends on excitement and legitimacy. The citizen is the boss. It also means that the citizen has a responsibility. He and she have a responsibility as a joint owner, not as a customer who can buy individual products on the top shelf without consequences. Policy requires a holistic approach, reasoning and a minimum of insight. It is a trend in time that protests collect great, popular support, that food with discontent is a popular sport, and that parties that promise gold and green forests can be tempting to join. Sarcasm is always easy to chew on. However, it is not very impressive to promise everything to everyone. Nor is it so impressive that tabloid media help to simplify and streamline policy. Measurements of opinion are useful mood reports, but no more. Choices apply for four years at a time, and there is no indication that convenience is as great at the polls as when the phone calls from the polling institutes. The left is therefore related to the situation as it is in Stortinget. We have a minority government, which in our view is the best and most effective government we can have in this period. There should therefore be good cooperation on the state budget and other important issues in this enlargement — in a country with all its possibilities, but where still a majority sees the need to prioritise. The noise level is often more marked by tactical positions than by factual disagreement. The biggest difference between a government with central parties and one without is that the last one always has a more factual and cooperative opposition, without a tactical double day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1262	The left is happy to sit in government, said the parliamentary leader of the Left, and I have understood that very well. They were in a government with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party who wanted a new course for the country. This means more unemployed people, and those who are unemployed get worse – a reduction of up to DKK 200 000 if one is unemployed for one year. There will be poorer well-being, including: is reduced to education and care. The left is concerned with taking social responsibility,' said the parliamentary leader. Then I wonder if it's in the Left's spirit to go from universal welfare arrangements and back to a now going with the hood in your fist and beg and ask for some money in relation to what you feel you need and have the right to. So it's important for both small and medium-sized enterprises. Caring is important. The size has decided to remove the investment levy from 1 October of this year. The size has also decided to remove the properties of the blue recipe for disabled and pensioners from October 1st this year. In the opinion of the Left, what is it that makes it so much more important to hold on to the decision taken in relation to the investment levy? Or can a person be part of a social responsibility and say to those who are disabled and retired, that property on the blue recipe was neither targeted enough nor spent in a proper way, so do we remove it with easy thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1272	As I have seen the Workers' Party, they are also happy to sit in government. I think that's a little bit of the main reason why we want to get involved politically, so it applies to all of us, I hope. This is, in fact, a budget that leads to fewer unemployed people. The investment tax is also a means of reducing the number of unemployed people, by providing a predictable basis for business. The reactions we got from business, which then actually create the jobs that we want people to have, were also positive – also in relation to the tightness of the budget. Then it's the welfare. We in the Left are concerned that we should spend the money we spend on welfare, to reach those who absolutely need it the most. That is the grip we have taken on poverty, which in the previous budget was also much better than what the Labour Party was able to provide. We're also concerned that things should be directed at those who need it. Let me give an example: today it is such that a rich shipowner in the Holmenkol lock and a staging representative in the Old Town get the same sum for burial. But if you're an old lady in Torshov who loses her husband, and who then has to cover the expenses over NOK 4000 herself, it's actually a pretty big financial burden, while for example. for heirs after me had been a microscopic financial burden. We think it's more important that those for whom there's a huge financial burden actually cover everything, than that everyone should get a sum evenly across. The other is, for example, what the Government is doing with regard to support for secondary education, i.e. that no one is going out of high school with a loan. We want to spend the money we've spent on everybody today, so that those young people who actually have the worst starting point in life, among other things. in relation to the financial situation of parents, it shall be possible to obtain a better outcome. I think we have to start twisting more towards reaching those who actually need it the most. For me, which always uses my fair share of blue prescription, this means 500 more kroner. I think I'll do that, especially if I know that those who need more, actually get more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1283	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, was very pleased that the Left could participate in a tripartite government. She was also satisfied with the efforts made by the Left, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. I remember the Bondevik I government, when we had Sponheim as Minister of Industry, and he tried to do something about the form field. In the nine to ten months that the government set, it was possible to reduce the form field by 8 per million. It would take 350 years to reduce the form field by 25 pst, which was Sponheim's goal. Now, when we look at the many small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses in addition to the quite country that is taking damage because the Left wants to nullify the arrangements for our seafarers, I would remind the representative Skei Grande that the marine industrial cluster, the maritime cluster, is considered to be one of Norway's most profitable, so even if we subsidize one element in this cluster, it contributes to huge revenues for the country. This results in ring-effects of approx. 70,000 value-creating jobs — very many in the districts. So my question is, how can the Left defend such a policy, and in what way are you going to replace all the value-creating jobs in District Norway that are likely to disappear if this deletion of the systems for seafarers is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1292	First to the form field. Hedstrøm has never tried to run any department or any major bureaucracy to be turned around, so I can give a little insight. It's not always as simple as that. What we got was that for the first time we got a complete overview of which forms actually existed, and which forms the companies were going to be exposed to. We started to turn around a trend with growth that had gone on for many decades, to actually become a decline, which we continue to do now, both at the job the Minister of Industry is doing, and at the job the Minister of Justice is doing. Among other things, we have introduces sunset legislation, i.e. laws only apply for a given period, and then they must be re-adopted in order to be applicable further. I believe that we are doing well. The technology with electronic signatures hope that we can get even a little bit further in relation to this. Then it has been important for the Government to secure competitive industry. We have had to prioritize, but this is a budget where a great deal has been spent on research, innovation, districts and development and innovation in maritime industries. It's not just one industry, it's not just our old industries that are going to save us in the future, it's also our new industries. This government wants to look forward and look at what new industries actually help us. The commitment to research, innovation and innovation, also on the maritime side, which is in this budget, I think is very good. I think it's much more forward-looking than always fighting for the old arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1299	I noticed that Carl I. Hagen earlier in the debate said that the Left did not have to be responsible for the government's policy, because the Left was not important in that context. I would believe that the Left both wants and is willing to be responsible for the things they have been involved in. We get to believe that what comes from the government quarter is also an expression of the Left's priorities and the Left's policy. That is why I think it is appropriate to ask a few questions to the representative Skei Grande. We notice that many of the local politicians of the Left have joined the dawning municipal uprising that is going on around the country, where many say that they are dissatisfied with the size of the transfers that become the municipalities and that they will take part in the actions planned around the autumn. The government has submitted a draft budget, where transfers to municipalities are lower than those promised in the municipal bill. I think it is natural to ask for an answer from the Left on whether it is now the Left's policy that the level of activity and the service provision in Norwegian municipalities should be reduced. In this respect, it is interesting to note that an analysis has now been presented in the national budget to show that private consumption in Norway accounts for up to seven times as much growth as public consumption. The left is a party that has presented itself as an environmental party, which has stressed the need to limit private consumption, and also a party that has had election promises about increased public expenditure, for example. to public transport and school. To take these promises seriously – there are some things that indicate that they are not being fulfilled – it is necessary to ask a party that calls itself an environmental party and has extensive election promises, how to defend that private growth is seven times the size of the public. Does Trine Skei Grande believe that such a development is a positive development for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1308	In relation to the introductory remark of the article, I have to say that it is not just those who are big, who are arrogant. Even those who have been small and feel very large can be arrogant. In the area of municipal planning, what the local politicians of the Left have said is in the media, criticisms about earmarking and governance. What I have read that our rapporteurs have said is that they have been very critical of the nursery, because they feel that it is troubling the community economy. That is what has been said that has reached me. What has happened is that over a long time, under changing governments, the municipalities have been strangled by assigning them more and more tasks without giving them the freedom to choose within their limits. What the Left is concerned about is getting a review and maybe some major reforms where we release the municipalities and actually let local politicians make some local choices and some local priorities of what is important. In this room you are so concerned with rights legislation and of crowns, e.g. on – randomly chosen – kindergartens, that one completely undermines the municipal maritime administration. And then there's consumption constraints. The left has been concerned with a change in the tax system, from red SV tax to green left tax, which we feel is actually starting to get through to. If we're going to be able to do some policy action, it's not making money that's struggling on nature. It's spending money on nature. That's when the tax system should be changed. Then you have to change the structures, and we actually think we've gotten quite far, and there's a good deal of exciting reforms in the entire government's work on this side so we can get on with it. But I think that we and SV have a slightly different approach to how we want to get a more environmentally friendly society on the consumer side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1319	As a reason for changing the burial aid, the representative Trine Skei Grande says that the government wants to go from general to targeted schemes. The funny thing is that in the last year you have argued for the true opposite in a number of areas. There is a desire to provide a good general framework for business in the form of tax incentives, and to liquidate and reduce, build down, target schemes through, for example, tax incentives. SND and other public instruments that are involved and bring about innovation, etc. You do the exact same thing to those who use medicine. They have to pay more. Those who go out of work will receive less and pay more indebtedness, and those who have high costs of treatment or medicine because of illness will not receive a full deduction from the tax. So in return, some people get tax credits. The targeted schemes are removed and general schemes are chosen as replacements. This seems to be a little bit inconsistent from the Government's side. So it sounds reasonable to reason and argue in the manner that the representative does, about the shipowner in the Holmenkol lock who does not need gravitational support. But my question is, What about the cash support? What about child welfare? Does the shipowner in the Holmenkol lock, in the opinion of the representative, have a greater need for those performances than for other performances? Or is it that there is the amount of money to determine what kind of arrangements are to be targeted and what kind of arrangements are to be general? Is it the case that the salary of the staggering representatives is essential for the level of medical prostheses or for the assessment of whether the gravitational aid is so small that it is impossible to make sense to anyone that that scheme is general? What kind of thinking are the government parties and the Left for when selecting instruments between each other and not implemented, do not use the same argument in relation to, for example, cash support used in relation to gravitational assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1326	I am pleased that the Enoch has understood this with the conversion of the tomb support, and that he agrees that that proposal has great sympathetic features. So to the rest of the post. He thought the cash support was such an example. Cash support is something you get instead of using kindergarten. Today, in fact, we have some good things that the community has to offer, which are scarce. Those scarce things are some people here in the hall that seem to be making the cheapest possible, while some of us think it is important that there is a right that everyone has. For example, one of the scarce items is: kindergarten. What's the way of thinking is that there's someone here who actually gets something from the public today, from kindergarten, and that's the similarity you want to have in society with children. It's the same thing as you don't want it to be just those who need education the most, who are going to get education. There are some common things that absolutely everyone has. I believe, however, that digging is a common good that is of a completely different nature and that can be treated in a completely different way. So I think it was a bit of a sick mix of cash support and digging. It's kind of like comparing digging and education. I think that might have been a little bit of an example. We are to target a number of measures to help those who need it most. We see that some of the changes we need are more individualised schemes, both in relation to care, in relation to the problem of poverty and in relation to the issue of child protection. So there are much more individualized measures we need, and not large mastodons that create fine action plans, and that try to achieve goals through their institutions other than what the individual actually needs to get to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1337	The left has three government councils in the government, in three major departments, including Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim. We know that Norwegian agriculture is facing significant challenges today. We have the highest food prices across Europe – I read here today that they are over 50 pst. higher than the average - we have the highest transfers per. farmers, and we have many dissatisfied farmers. If we look at the legislation in Norwegian agriculture, most rules are very old, 50–70 years, yes, many are from the interwar period. We know that the Sem Declaration, which is also the Government's platform for agricultural policy, contains very little that can contribute to more rational and efficient agriculture. The advance party will remove a good part of these fences, so that the drifting Norwegian farmer can survive in the future. There may be fewer farmers, but we'd get a more robust agriculture. I have noticed something in the Sem statement. There is a promise that price differences between Norwegian agricultural products and neighbouring countries’ agricultural products will be reduced. What we know is in Sweden, there's a pressure to keep food prices down, and they might sink. The competition authorities are active. You get foreign chains. Things are happening in the EU in relation to Agenda 2000, etc. How does the Left believe that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government should fulfill their commitments to the voters and the Norwegian people in order to reduce price differences in food between Norway and neighbouring countries? Could she imagine doing something about all these regulations we have, so that we can get an efficient and more free agriculture in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1344	I agree with the representative Hedstrøm that we want us to be industrious farmers who see a future in their farm and see the possibility of having a job on their farm. I guess that's about where the consensus stops. What has been important to us in agricultural policy is, first of all, to achieve more value creation, more inequality, more new products, more exciting product development, and perhaps, above all, safe, clean food and more environmentally friendly agriculture. In addition, we want there to be a future in the districts and that agriculture plays an important role in terms of job creation locally. We want a transition that is not only coined at the price of the Progress Party, but also at the environment, districts, entrepreneurial culture and new products.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1351	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1354	I'll say thank you for the last time. I've come back to this room and this pulpit after a long absence, and I think it's nice to be allowed to take part in the debate. Today we have the debate on the languages of the throne, and we are also talking about the state budget that has been presented. The Coastal Party is the only value-conservative centre party left in political Norway. Since the Christian People's Party and the Left have gone to the right and the Center Party has gone to the left, to the Workers' Party and SV, we are the only party left in the political center, and we intend to fill that role. We didn't do it in this big shot, there were a few hundred voices missing from it, but we're going to do it in the next period. It is from this pulpit that we are the richest country in the world. Yes, that's quite possible, but we've probably lost NOK 110 billion in the last six months. We've done that in terms of increased dollar rates and losses on securities that we've placed abroad. And there's nothing to suggest that that decline is over, the development of the stock exchange around the world does not exactly suggest that that trend will turn. But we have a surplus on our trade balance, and so we are still the richest country in the world. We need – contrary to placing the money abroad, as we have done as we sell – better roads and better ports, and we need free ferries. Where we need better ports, however, I would like to stress that the boats have got side propellers, the boats have got bigger engines, and many of the berths that are built in this country, do not lie on sand, they do not lie on mountains. And since they've got bigger propellers, they're swirling up sand, and we need to find out if these berths are good enough. We need better roads. Many of the roads we have in this country aren't even painted strips, they're not wide enough to wear strips. I have just been to Sweden by car, and there is a completely different road standard on Swedish roads than what we have in Norway. It has been proclaimed from this pulpit that Sweden is a poor country in relation to Norway. It's a paradox. We want Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. It's a lot of ships that sail under the Norwegian flag, but don't have Norwegian seafarers on board. I want to point especially to the short sea shipping, which is a tower in the eye of many, but to which we have to relate. Short sea shipping is struggling with high CO2 taxes and high wages, and we have agreed that they will receive the same remuneration as the other Nordic countries, i.e. the net pay system, as they will not pay taxes in the same way as the other Nordic countries. And so they could be competitive. We would like to say that Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping are not competitive with the rest of the world, but it does not benefit when the conditions of competition differ for Norwegian ships sailing on the Norwegian coast and the foreign vessels that had to take their place. We were with representatives of the Nordland County Municipality yesterday. There I asked a question about who owns the soil where the pole is. This applies to electricity, and not least to telecommunications. It was okay enough to distribute free land to the post the time you experienced that it was the municipality that owned the power plant and the state that owned Telenor. But today it's not like that anymore. It's a private company, it's a private limited liability company. And who's the owner? Is that the shot? We're going to get answers to it in this room, but as it is today, you have to pay rent when you're going to get power, and you have to pay extra for it to be data services to everyone in the districts. I also believe that the teachers, who can opt out of individual subjects, have to be able to count and write. For my part, I don't have that long education, but calculating and writing taught me when I went to school, and I'm now on this pulpit. I received a visit today from the Education Association. They felt that the state budget had gone 28 million. for distance learning. The school that we have in the districts, on which we have to build, is, of course, distance learning. No, it's been removed from the state budget. I hope, with God's help – I shouldn't say so much in my mouth – that it will be corrected in the Financial Committee. I'm on the finance committee. Norway is at war. Yeah, we're at war. We started in Bosnia. We continue in Afghanistan. We've become a banana republic, I'll call it, because if the United States says jump, we jump. There is nothing to indicate that we will withdraw from the war that is taking place in Afghanistan. No, on the contrary, it goes against the defence of Norway. It goes beyond the defence of our own country for which we are responsible. We who are in this room, participate. We're a peace-loving people, and we've never been involved in war like this before. We do that now, and we do it without debate. We need to see more to the west and to the north. We're over a sea area that's seven times larger than our land. We are a great power, not only in money, but a great power in natural resources, what is moving in the sea. We have the Faeroe Islands, we have Iceland, we have Greenland, and we have Russia. We don't see that at all. There are ten departments today — whether you believe it or not — that deal with coastal issues. We were going to have one department that could take care of everything. Today we are the external border of Schengen, but we have no idea what is going on on on the coast, since the defence radar in the south is to be dismantled. We have no problem with predators in this country. Far from it! No, because people lay down as the predators take over. Up north the yerve has taken over, so the sheep is not allowed to go and graze anymore. That's where people lay down. We have the same problem on the coast when it comes to sales, and we have the same problem in the sea when it comes to whales. All three elements are involved in substantiating that we should be able to take more of the natural resources. The teeth are part of the body. One should see the state budget that the teeth were treated in the same way as the other parts of the body in this country, that dental treatment became part of the public interest. When you have something wrong with the hang, it is just as wrong as when you have something wrong with a toe or a finger. It may have to be repaired over the fear of the people, but in the case of the kangaroo, one can be absolutely sure that one can ignore it. We need to improve the ratios of pensioners. They have to work, earn money and pay taxes like other citizens. What does it do if disabled or retired people between 65 and 70 years of age are employed and tax paid and paid into the common fund? We need to relax the rules on the import of foreign labour to fill the empty jobs, while cutting down on the possibility that people with social security and pensions can participate in the labour market. I don't understand. It is completely foreign to me, and I therefore refer to a proposal that I have made in this Chamber and have been voted down, as usual. We want to limit the import of wine and spirits. We want it to decrease a sample, and we want to lower the prices. We want supplies to be cheaper. So we want the food tax to be removed. The price of the groceries that we consume, and we have to eat, is too high. We've gone a few steps on the way. We've come halfway, but we have half left to go. I want to challenge the other parties to take away the tax on necessities, and rather tax the goods that we don't need.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1386	It was good to see the Bastisen back in old style. I want to ask him a question about a topic that may not come out so often from the Coastal Party. We hear quite often, and we have heard it here today, that now is the time to sacrifice Norwegian agriculture for fish. It seems to some people difficult to understand that if we are to maintain our livelihoods and sell travel and other activities throughout the country, we need sustainable fisheries first and foremost, but also sustainable agriculture. This is the actual carrybar of District Norway. The coastal party has an active relationship with fisheries and coastal policy and rural policy, but perhaps they don't say anything about agriculture so often. Does the representative of Bastisen agree that fisheries and agriculture must be in place to ensure their settlement in Coastal and District Norway? Or can we literally just give agriculture on the boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1395	I'm going to replicate to the representative Arnesen and say the following: the coastal party is for us to have a living agriculture. We have to be self-sufficient in food as far as possible in this country. If we cut Norwegian agriculture in favour of fishing, we will also cut Norwegian fishing. Then, to the extent that we have today, we do not want people living anywhere in Norway in the future. So we're going to keep a Norwegian agriculture, yes, it's raised above any doubt. It has become known today that the Minister of Fisheries is withdrawing the message he was going to come to Stortinget, about the closure of the coastal fleet – yes, I say the closure of the coastal fleet, because that is what it meant. The industry itself shall be allowed to look at this and, where appropriate, to find appropriate structural arrangements. But it is clear that Norwegian agriculture is part of Norwegian coastal industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1402	I usually listen when the Bastisen goes to the pulpit. The Coastal Party and the Christian People's Party have, as I understand it, a common understanding of many of the challenges facing Norway and, in particular, the districts. That's a good starting point. The fact that local authorities are now being replenished in the food funds is an inspiration for local economic development. The fact that the county becomes a more central player in industrial development is also correct from a local and regional point of view. The extension of the fund allocation system for research and development to all types of enterprises is a response to the business that I am happy about. The intensity of regional airports, from 107 million. NOK 262 million. kr, I would trust the representative Bastesen will accept. The seafarer’s and fisherman’s deduction will be increased by NOK 10 000, to NOK 80000. Here are a lot of goodies that you should think were directly aligned against the Coastal Party's distinctive leader. So this is the cooperative government, including the Christian People's Party. I could list more examples. Is it possible to get a comment from the Coastal Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1409	There is nothing in this budget that would mean that everything is just misery, that there is nothing to cry out for. Because I guess that's both of them. I have to say, frankly, when the representative, Mr Auchan, says that there is something for the Coastal Party in this budget, that there are many things in this budget that I can sign that I fully agree with. That we're satisfied with the fishermen's deduction and the seafarer's deduction, is sin and shame to say, but it's better with 80,000 kroner than 70,000 kroner, so we're on line. But we would have liked it to be better than that. With regard to the safety training of fishermen, we have not been given clear assurances that ‘King Island’ will continue to sail along the coast. A dead fisherman is a dead fisherman, whether it's for one reason or another, it's now a fact. I must honestly say that it is better for 'King Island' to sail than that it cannot sail. It remains to be seen. As far as the budget is concerned, there are many things there, especially after the Government has removed the scheme of grants to the small parties outside the municipalities, which are bad. It's bad not least for the Coastal Party, but I think it'll be bad for others too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1418	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1421	The co-operation administration established itself last year on the basis of the fact that Norway needed a new policy for a society characterised by many and rapid changes. I think the year that has passed has shown that it has managed to live up to its bold goal of further developing the welfare society hand in hand with a competitive business, in an increasingly globalized world. Ideas are stimulated and innovation emerge where the framework conditions for value creation are good. That's the way it should be, we're going to have a healthy business life that's on our own. The proposed State budget is therefore of good value for competitive business and working life and thus for District Norway. The main focus of our competitive and export-oriented business is just in District Norway, especially along the coast. The government's proposals for the 2003 government budget are therefore good news for Coastal and District Norway, from Oslofjord and the coast around to Finnmark. The budget will help to mitigate the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates, thereby facilitating the situation of competitive jobs. A large part of these are in the West. Hordaland, from which I come, is Norway's largest export country and is entirely dependent on the market and competition situation vis-à-vis the rest of the world. High interest rates and such a strong dollar rate as we've seen lately are impossible to live with in the long run. Therefore, a tight budget is the most important handbill for this county, to this part of the country – yes to the whole of Coast Norway. And the reactions weren't allowed to wait. On the radio yesterday morning, we could hear a happy manager of the lifeboat manufacturer Harding Safety who said that it was not now time to move production out of the country, to the joy of the company, employees, community – and actually the state treasury. It is therefore about providing stable framework conditions, which in turn provide a basis for growth and well-being. We must never forget that it is the creation of value in competitive business that forms the very basis for our well-being. Over time, there has been a legitimate concern about high interest rates and strong crowns, which have resulted in plans for relocation and job closures in industry. This requires limiting the growth of expenditure in the State budget. Such underlying modest growth in public expenditure of 1⁄2 pst. the growth of public expenditure is lower than the economic growth of mainland Norway. This is therefore very joyful. It is in line with the Right Programme and the Sem Declaration. And, not least, that's good news for Norway. But it's a tough medicine in a country that's overflowing with money, and where it's tempting, that the Progress Party in particular makes itself a spokesperson, to promise money for all good purposes. When you allow yourself to almost unlimited use of the oil nation's growing bank account for good purposes, yes, then it's easy to run politics. When, in addition, in response to the merciless macroeconomic facts that I have mentioned before, and that result in the closure and relocation of businesses, the answer is, 'So what?', the populist's clear language speaks: let's spend money and have fun as long as we can, there's always someone who takes the bill. The co-operation government signals the will to renew and reform through the century that will help to safeguard our business and our well-being, even without the support of a rich state. And just like that, we can create a healthy economy and healthy businesses. It is tempting to remind some representatives in this room that the future is being created, it is not adopted. The co-operation management contributes to this. By focusing on the reduction of the level of taxation, improved competitiveness and innovation, the price is shifted. Through this, the government will give people the opportunity to bet, think new, be creative and create new healthy businesses and new secure jobs based on their own choices. By strengthening the assumptions for a broad private ownership, the Government will also step down government ownership. This shows the willingness to think new and forward-looking for the benefit of our common well-being. That's how we're going to meet the future, not through irresponsible use of money and a dramatic blue day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1442	The UN regularly assesses the level of welfare in all countries of the world. Last year Norway received a lot of encouragement. Norway was considered the world’s best country to live in. It's not a coincidence. It's not because we have oil and other natural resources. This is not because we have investors who have invested correctly. For many countries, rich natural resources, many countries have great wealth, but it does not always mean well-being and security for those living in the country. The welfare of Norway is the result of political will and political elections. We haven't let those who had money use our common natural resources unilaterally to increase their private well-being. We have used our common opportunities to create common well-being. We've been striving for freedom, freedom to take education, freedom to get a safe care. Such freedom when we just give everyone equal opportunities. We can only achieve that together. That is why we have created a strong community, a common school, a common health care system, a common pension scheme. That is why we also have larger transfers through the tax system than many other countries, and therefore we have a higher level of taxation than many other countries. We get more from the community. It assumes that we also provide more to the community. It's the Nordic welfare model. This is the social-democratic welfare model. It is this society that was considered the world's best welfare society. I have noticed that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance boast that the United Nations named Norway as the world's best country to live in. At the same time, they say that the country needs a different course. The claim is: we have succeeded, so we have to change. To date, there has been a broad consensus on community education. Now the government will bet on private schools, without other pedagogy or based on life views. The school is glued to the Norwegian community. Through the school we learn subjects, but also common values. The fact that the daughter of the director and the son of the social welfare beneficiary is in the same class, means that dividing lines are broken down. Then we get to know the different parts of society. It's not uniform. But if we're going to have one school for the rich, one for the poor, one for the Muslims, one for the Buddhists and one for the atheists, yes, then we're going to get the uniform. That is why the Workers' Party will be watching over the Joint School. There has been a broad consensus that we should receive medical treatment depending on our needs. Now the government wants more private health solutions. This will mean that the wallet and not the disease decide. The person who can pay is treated before the person who cannot pay. So when employers are now stimulated to pay for health care, it means that those who make the employer pay are treated before those who do not make the employer pay. Is it the director or is it the unemployed person who earns it? We have a limited amount of health professionals. The fact that someone is moving up in the health queue means that others are being pushed down. That is why the Workers' Party will be watching over our common health system. There has been a broad consensus that popular security should give everyone the same security of disability and old age. Now the Government is keeping open to leave to each individual to manage part of their pension funds. Those who are lucky with their stock options will get more in retirement. Those who are unlucky are getting less. This will increase uncertainty about the future pension. Therefore, the Workers' Party will be vigilant for our common pension system. Policy is to want, but politics is also to choose. The government has presented a budget with clear choices. The working party will improve the growing conditions for children and young people. Lack of kindergarten and the price of kindergartens is the biggest challenge for young families. That's why we want everyone who wants to get a babysitting space, and that the prices should gradually be reduced to NOK 1500 per month. For this reason, the Labour Party decided in its budget for 2002 to strengthen kindergartens by about DKK 1 billion. This government chooses to remove the child benefit supplement and to greatly increase parental pay in the school leisure scheme. The Workers' Party will strengthen cultural life, so we made up for a clear growth in the appropriations for culture. This government sucks. The Labour Party will strengthen the school, so the Labour Party for 2003, as for 2002 and 2001, has announced a strengthening of the local economy. We introduced a new state funding scheme for school buildings, we want free textbooks in high school. This government proposes that municipalities receive less free income next year than this year. The cut is equal to 800 kroner per year. pupils in primary school. The school building loan scheme is halved, school leisure appropriations are halved, free textbooks have been abolished by the Government. The working party will strengthen the health system and make medical treatment cheaper. Therefore, we introduced the system of free medicines on a blue prescription for the disabled and the elderly over 67 years old. We have proposed to reduce self-interest. This government has no ambition to increase disease treatment in hospitals next year. The system of free medicines is terminated. The ownership stake increases by 40 pst. For disabled people and older people over 67 years of age, this means that next year's excesses may increase by nearly NOK 2000. The Labour Party will ensure a fairer distribution and promise the most difficult. That is why, in the long-term programme, we presented an action plan for economic and social protection. We in Stortinget have put forward proposals for a strong escalation of housing aid. This government says it will help those who have bad finances. But just the increase in the excess costs those who use drugs, $780 million. kr. It's more than twice as much as the entire poverty package. The unemployment rate is severely weakened. The proposal to remove the holiday supplement in the unemployment allowance alone means that one with an average industrial worker income, which is unemployed for one year, loses about NOK 20 000. Impairment of income is impaired. Even the tomb supports are removed. The total cut in the state budget, which also affects weak groups, is close to DKK 2 billion. The Workers' Party will have an active industrial development and an active district policy. For us, work is most important to everyone. That is why we want an active labour market policy. We want a strong SND. We have proposed strong regional policy measures. Last year we proposed measures for the ferry companies. This government itself estimates that unemployment will increase. The answer is cut in the unemployment allowance. The government is mainly proposing to continue the major cuts it made in the district policy of the year’s budget. The reimbursement scheme for seafarers is terminated. Grants to the ferry companies are terminated. Policy is to choose. The choices made by the Government are not for the sake of the country's economy or for the sake of our competitive business. The Labour Party will have a budget as tight as the Government. The question is what choices are made within such a framework. The government chooses a net tax bill of $10.6 billion. By removing the dividend tax, you're going to get 10 million dollars. kr in dividends, a tax return of 1,1 million. kr per. years. This is paid by cutting school provision and care for the elderly in the municipalities, cutting the financial support for the sick, the elderly and the unemployed. This is the Government's choice. This is a choice The Labour Party disagrees with. But these are also not choices that are a necessary consequence of Storting's composition. The parties that, before the election, secured a majority for a bet in a strong community and for a fair distribution, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, still have a majority in the Stortinget. The new thing is that after the election, the Christian People's Party has chosen to give a majority to the Right and the Advance Party's solutions. The Right-Original Government had not been able to do so without the active support of the Advance Party, even by Carl I. Hagen's proposal for a vote of confidence in the Stortinget. And the government's policy could not have been implemented without the support of the Progress Party. It is the Progress Party that gives the majority for the tight community economy, for the cuts in district policy, to remove free school books, for the development of private schools, for private health services. But that also means that the Progress Party must take responsibility for the elections. The fourth year's budget was adopted with the support of the Progress Party. Then, of course, the Progress Party is also responsible for what they believe to be the wrong choices. They themselves have given them the majority. This government's stated aim is to give social development a different course from that of the Workers' Party. Then we cannot expect the support of the Workers' Party. Where the government gives a new course, there is a course the Progress Party wants and supports. This government lives because of and through the Progress Party. That is the recognition that both the Government and the Advance Party must take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1483	It is an interesting study to listen to the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and his budgetary considerations. For some reason, I came to think of the Labour Party rapporteur who recently broke out at a LO conference, after hearing similar considerations from Schjött-Pedersen: why did we hear so little about this a year ago, when he himself put so that he could do anything about it? No, say it! Then maybe it was like TV 2's commentator Per Norvik said in an analysis before the summer: Schjøtt-Pedersen is the most desirable finance minister Norway has ever had. Now we hear that it has become a little more liberal for the Workers' Party, even though the budget should be even tighter. So then it's not quite unnatural to ask Schjøtt-Pedersen: what taxes and taxes will the Workers' Party now raise again to collect what they lack to get enough for what they are now going to spend more money on? I understand that the Workers' Party is going to have a certain batch treatment of this. But the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, as a former Minister of Finance, has great competence to increase taxes and taxes, so he might share some thoughts about the matter with us, since he could so easily tell us about everything he is now going to spend more money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1492	In the 2001 budget, the Labour Party Government set aside an increase in the local economy of DKK 5 billion compared to the previous spring level. The growth in the free revenues was NOK 2 billion. In the 2002 budget, where the Special Health Service had been removed, the growth was DKK 3.5 billion, and in the free revenues of 1.7. The Labour Party, during its examination of the Community economicproposition, has assumed that for 2003 we should have a growth of 3.5 to 4 pst., in the free incomes of 1.75. There is a difference between the Labour Party Government in the 2001 budget and the growth in the free income of DKK 2 billion, and this government is building on a growth in the free income in relation to the level in spring of DKK 0.5 billion. Taking into account the actual income situation in municipalities this year, there will be a decrease in the free income of the local government sector of SEK 0.5 billion next year. The municipalities that are now struggling with the local economy will meet 0.5 billion kroner less next year. It means cutting school supplies, and it means cutting older people's care. But there are choices that this government makes. In addition, I must be allowed to remind the representative Hogsnes that, in terms of tax policy, the Labour Party Government proposed to reduce the petrol tax and the diesel tax – as the first and only government that has proposed it. We proposed changes to the top tax, which the representative has probably recorded, and we backed budgetary agreements with reductions in the food tax and with reductions in the investment tax. There were many reliefs in taxes and charges for ordinary people in the financial arrangement of the Workers' Party. As far as the 2003 scheme is concerned, we will be allowed to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1504	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately running. The President proposes that the meeting continue until the change in line after Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts are completed, it should not take very long. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1509	The Labour Party and the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen talk very much about the need to strengthen the local economy, and that is good. However, in order to achieve this, the Labour Party must also be willing to give greater priority to the local economy. In the municipal bill, the Workers' Party proposed to increase the growth of total municipal income by SEK 1.5 billion in addition to the government's proposal. This isn't enough. In my home municipality, Strange, we have taken the advice to equip each student with approx. 12 kroner the day – 2 300 kroner for the entire school year – for the operation of the school’s educational work. This will cover everything from excursions and camp schools to schoolbooks, copying and working on the Internet, but also to qualifying approaches to teachers. Stange kommune is not the country's worst. Parents in Stage are forced to commit civil disobedience and contribute to the budget of approx. Half an extra, because, as they say, the children don't get in replay. The size must be presented with a draft budget which makes it possible for representatives to send an explicit call to municipalities and people for civil disobedience and crime. The size must help the prime minister to appear as next year's national boss mobs. The government gives the impression of having to bet on care and in this context does some symbolic actions. The size has, at regular intervals and in various ways, sent statements of disgust to the municipalities about how they handle the so-called after-sales protection. Everyone knows that post-protection is synonymous with the overall efforts for rehabilitation – bets for which the municipality has the primary responsibility. Housing is very central, as is the ability of the municipality to facilitate activity, and not least good and individual follow-up and coordination of various efforts. When the government undermines the municipality's economy, they put a minefield into their own bet area. It is imperative that the Storting stop putting stumbling wires as a barrier to the municipalities, so that they cannot achieve the Storting's explicit goal. Municipalities need to grow in the economy not only to avoid cuts but also to improve welfare services in the municipality. Just in the end: can I interpret the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen so that the Workers' Party approaches SV in understanding the role and needs of the municipality – not for SEK 1.5 billion, but for SEK 6 billion in increased income?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1524	I share the concern about the situation in the municipalities that the representative here expresses. There is no doubt that very many municipalities are working very hard. The municipalities have had a tight economic environment for several years. As I said, what we are facing is a situation where the free income is actually going to be less next year than what you have at your disposal this year. On the basis of the fact that the situation in many municipalities is already difficult, there is reason to fear that the situation in many municipalities may become serious next year, or as expressed by the Municipal Councils: There is a danger that municipalities will meet the wall in 2003. I think there are two things that are important in this regard. One is that the financial framework that the Government has prioritised for the municipal sector is too low. The Workers' Party will come back to it in its financial arrangement for the next year. But we have already made it clear in the treatment of the municipal proposition in ours that we want greater growth in the incomes of the municipalities than the government has planned. The second is that the municipalities face considerable additional pension costs. For its part, the Workers' Party has proposed measures to address this issue, including: through a loan or fund scheme on which it will be possible for municipalities to draw in order to finance the increased pension costs. I also note in that area that the Government has chosen not to accept the proposal for a solution that the Workers' Party has launched. I think that's unfortunate. But I just have to register it. We believe that such measures are still needed. In the case of drug care, I would also like to point out, in relation to what the representative here says, that it is also important to organise a housing offer for those who have drug problems, as the Workers' Party has proposed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09.ana.ud1545e1535	Several have not asked for the word for a line. This concludes the morning meeting. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
