ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e28	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e31	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Karin Andersen, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself on the future structure of the emergency medical communications centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e36	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e39	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Ola D. Glötvold, Jorunn Ringstad, Rune J. Kjellaaen and myself, to put forward proposals to postpone a change of practice in the printing of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e44	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e67	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Børge Burnde The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e83	First I wish the Prime Minister a really good Christmas, and then I would like to ask him a question. It's about the power prices. Power prices are now rising sharply. Many may experience increased electricity costs of DKK 4000–5000, and many may experience even stronger increases. The basic reason is that we use more electricity in Norway than we can produce ourselves. We will then have to implement both energy saving measures to dampen the growth of consumption and to provide more electricity. But both of them take some time, so those who get problems, not least those who from before have the least, the poor, the underprivileged and the retired, we have to help through the winter. This involves more short-term remedial measures. The Labour Party has pointed to two things. One is a major improvement in the housing aid scheme. The government has proposed NOK 450 more per year. years. It is far too small and involves too few people compared to the large groups that will be affected. My question is whether the Prime Minister is satisfied with 450 kroner per year. years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e94	First, I want to sign back to the head of the Workers' Party and wish you a really good Christmas. It has been a special year for many, even for Stoltenberg, with whom I congratulate – I have done so before – that he has been a party leader this year. The first Christmas leading in the Workers' Party, it's probably gonna be a good Christmas. In terms of power prices, the government is also worried that these have become so high. This was explained yesterday by the Minister of Oil and Energy in the Storting, and the parties expressed their reactions to it. I agree that balancing the power market can only take place through long-term measures that bring more power into our production. Now we have a free energy market in the Nordic region, so this also depends on imports in periods where we need it. The transmission system and its capacity are also too poor, as an contributing factor. The government, as the Council of State explained yesterday, first proposed an increase in the stencil contribution for light and heat within the housing aid scheme. Interestingly, the Workers' Party now considers this to be too modest when the Workers' Party actually proposed to wind up this scheme in its draft budget for 2001. But thanks to every famous budget agreement in Plaza, the centre parties were brought back into this system, which we can now use and target. In addition to this, the government will go in by 20 million. kr for information measures for NVE, for guidance for consumers in the market, so that they can also identify measures that will reduce electricity billing. But we will follow this further beyond the winter and will of course have a continuous assessment of any further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e105	It is typical of the Prime Minister to refer to what happened in Plaza in the autumn of 2000, in order to defend the government’s inability to act in the winter of 2003. Firstly, we proposed a conversion of the housing support system, and we proposed more money for housing support for both 2002 and 2003. But the crucial thing now is that there is an urgent need to do something for tens of thousands of people who are going to labor with an extra charge of NOK 4000 – 5000 for heating and lighting in Norwegian homes. And there's an increase in the housing stock of a little over 30 kroner per year. month for a very limited group too small. The second is that many people are at risk of double clicking – first increased electricity bills and then they have to pay high interest rates on overdraft, mortgage purchases in the power companies, which now say that customers can get deferred payments, but that they have to pay 15-20 pst. interest rate. The Workers' Party believes that we both need to strengthen the housing support system and to enter into guarantees or other arrangements to ensure that the credits granted by the Power Corporations have an interest rate around the same level as the house-bank rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e114	As far as I know, the Labour Party has delivered a Document No. 8 proposals, and it will be subject to normal treatment in the Stortinget where the Stoltenberg proposals now mentioned will be considered. I will not now prejudge the treatment of it. In the case of the housing aid scheme, further improvements are made to the next year’s budget. The housing aid scheme for disadvantaged families of children is improved by no longer requiring housing to be financed by the Husbank. Some 5,000 more disadvantaged families with low incomes and high spending will be helped. This is also one of several measures in the Government's poverty plan, which has received broad support in the 2003 budget. The measures we proposed both for 2002 and now further for 2003 are targeted at those groups that need it the most, and they need it not least in a situation of high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e121	A lot of people have signed up for follow-up questions. The President will allow three follow-up questions. The first is from the representative Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e124	As Jens Stoltenberg said, the high electricity prices are a result of a lack of balance between the demand for electricity and the production capacity in Norway. Lack of production capacity is due to the government parties, the Workers' Party and, in particular, the SV, which over many years have listened to partial hysterical protection interests and reduced the plans and applications for power development that have come. The result now is that the other parties have actually prioritised special smaller groups at the expense of ensuring a proper supply of electricity to the country's inhabitants, which the Progress Party has voted for all along. We have opposed the idea that we should not expand more power generation. We should have finished expanding also conventional gas power plants, which the other batches have actually stopped. Can we expect the new government, Bondevik, to put this line around, so that we get a marked expansion of force in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e131	The government will pursue an offensive energy policy, but it must also be environmentally friendly. In the case of gas power plants, Stortinge well knows the contrast that exists at that point. We have accepted that the three pending applications for gas power plants can be realized as part of a compromise in the Sem Declaration, but the companies themselves have so far not wanted to do so. This is due, inter alia, to: previous low prices. So believing that opening up to a number of conventional gas power plants is going to solve the power situation is not realistic. The oil and energy minister has launched the objective of releasing 10 TWh by 2010, by investing in new renewable energy sources and energy saving. We want to make better use of existing hydropower plants through upgrading and expansion and building several small power plants, we have put forward a strategy for increasing the use of gas, and we are putting considerable emphasis on the development of CO2-free gas power plants. This is an offensive strategy for better balance in the power market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e141	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e144	I am surprised that the Prime Minister does not have a more offensive strategy or takes this problem more seriously, either in relation to having a strategy to get more power into the market or to take seriously that many people in April are going to feel that the bill is rising by about NOK 4000 – 5000 on average. The answer we got from the Government is $450 more a year. So it's a drop in the ocean in relation to these increases. That's 20 million. kr for information measures, but it does not help those who have major problems paying the bills over Christmas. As the representative of Stoltenberg said here, we have submitted several proposals that can remedy that situation. And my question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister make sure that his party traps here in the house seriously evaluate this, and that we can make sure that we get arrangements that make people not just referred to the social office – which will actually be a consequence of this if the government doesn't agree to do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e151	There is no difference between the Labour Party and the Government Parties in taking this situation seriously. The government does. I have to say that the Workers' Party has been responsible for energy policy for many years and has not taken measures that have brought the now called for balance to the power market. Of course, we will also consider the proposals that are being put forward in Stortinget, as I said in a reply to the representative of Stoltenberg. The measures we have already proposed will remedy the situation somewhat for 75 000 households who are among the most disadvantaged. In addition, the Minister for Oil and Energy has initiated a meeting with the power industry to discuss measures for consumers with low paying capacity. So we're going to give 20 million. kr to information measures. This can be very important for many consumers, so that they can get better acquainted with energy saving opportunities and get better informed on the power market to get better out of it. And as I said earlier, we want to consider further measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e158	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e161	There has been broad agreement in the 1990s on an energy policy which implies that it is the market that determines whether or not new capacity is being built up – there is price and demand. In many parts of the 1990s, we have had a surplus of power. It's a situation that's now turned around, and we're going to have a long-term situation with a deficit of power. Unless the authorities are willing to go in with incentives to implement additional measures, to build up new capacity or to modernise existing power plants, new capacity will not be built up with the price picture we have traditionally had. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary for the authorities to go in. But the situation in the autumn has been that the power plants have exported large amounts of electricity to Sweden for a dry year. We've kept the Swedes on cheap power. Now Norwegian consumers are paying the bill for this. We have emptied the warehouses as far as November, despite lack of water. And my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Government intend at all to take action to secure the supply situation in dry years, as we have had this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e168	I believe that I was now involved in the offensive energy policy that the oil and energy minister has set up. It will help to bring about a better balance in the market. With regard to the free energy market in the Nordic region, to which the representative of Enoxsen now referred, this is justified by the Energy Act, which in its time was proposed by a central party council, Eivind Reiten, which has mainly worked well. I wonder if anyone has intended to reverse the free energy market in the Nordic region and change the Energy Act. I don't think that's the way to go. As the representative, Mr. Enoksen, said, this has worked very well for a long time. Now we are in an exceptional situation because of low rainfall in the harvest and a relatively early and cold winter. We have to remedy the situation for those who have the most difficulty, and I can also inform you that the NVE will now grant exemptions from the regulations, so that the network companies can actively offer monthly invoices to their customers for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e175	A manifest misunderstanding, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e180	No, there's no room to solve obvious misunderstandings, there's follow-up questions and answers. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e185	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. This is also about the power price, but it has a completely different angle, namely the fact that the state is now receiving significant revenue as a result of the high electricity prices, and that we still have a sky-high electricity charge. In the 1999 financial debate, the Prime Minister said: ‘It is not possible to see the electricity charge isolated from the electricity price in general. In fact, we in Norway today have a very cheap current. It will also be after this increase in the electricity charge...» In the same debate, the Chief Speaker of the Left said that the price of energy has to rise. So he wanted higher prices, the same as SV always wanted, to force households to use less power. But the Prime Minister has seen the electricity charge along with the electricity price. Is it not a natural consequence of the principle that the Prime Minister has repeatedly asserted that we are now substantially reducing the electricity charge, and possibly temporarily removing it, in order to get lower prices immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e195	Now the Stortinget has just adopted the State budget for 2003, including the electricity tax. I think it would be strange if the Prime Minister a few days after this happened, he says that now we're going to change a part of a budget line that's got a majority here in Stortinget. It is true that one must be able to see the electricity charge and the electricity price in the context, so I also defended an increase in the electricity charge during the time of the central government. Last year, the first year of the Cooperative Government, we proposed, as far as I remember, a reduced electricity charge. I think we need to see developments over a little longer time before another starts to charge the electricity tax. We cannot begin to change part of a budget a few days after its adoption. It is true that the country is likely to have increased revenues due to electricity prices for a while now, but other taxes and taxes are also moving. Developments in the Norwegian economy and the world economy may mean that we can get lower revenues than predicted in other areas, so that one cannot see an increase in income in isolation. As usual, how this picture develops with regard to the revenue side of the budget will come back to us in the revised national budget. My tip is that there will be both pluses and minuses on the revenue side of the budget after half a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e202	The main background of the budget was an assessment of the economic outlook by May, June, July and possibly until August. So things have changed significantly. In the national budget, a certain assessment was made, of course also by electricity prices. Now, the Norwegian people are actually experiencing an increase in taxes and taxes. All households receive a higher expenditure growth, partly directly to the country in the form of the electricity price. Is it not natural, then, to adhere to the premise of the budget that was now adopted, namely to reduce the electricity tax and, where appropriate, also the VAT on electricity, to what was the precondition for the budget when it was being dealt with? This has changed in just a few weeks, a dramatic change, and then, if you were to focus on what was planned for the state budget and the national budget, you should reverse, you should put down the sky-high electricity price for households.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e208	I think everyone understands that if you were to run and revise the budget every two weeks based on things that have happened, one would come a completely wrong one from the farm. A prime minister cannot stand in the Stortinget just after the Stortinget has adopted a budget, and say that now we're changing it. We have clear procedures for reviewing budgets if the assumptions are changed over a slightly longer period, and that is primarily in relation to the revised national budget. It's, and it's in the name, a revision of the budget. And then of course, we'll be able to get back to this, if you see that here the cost picture has become quite different from what you thought, and then not just over a few weeks, but over a few months. But I would also like to remind you that, after the budget framework was adopted in Stortinget, we have, happily, received an interest rate reduction of half a percent, which facilitates the economy of many households, for the municipalities with approx. 400 million. kr, and for enterprises. But, of course, we're not changing the budget line from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e215	There will be three follow-up questions – first Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e218	In Norway, we use approx. one-tenth of what we charge for electricity, for support measures for an additional and new renewable energy sources. What makes Norwegian households so hard hit by the fluctuations in the electricity market is that we are so unilaterally dependent on electricity for heating. In Sweden, parts of what is included in the electricity charge are used to provide support schemes to people who are unilaterally dependent on electricity for heating. If you install a heat pump, you get 8000 kroner, if you install waterborne heat, you get 20,000 kroner, and if you do what I have done and buy a pellet stove, you get 8000 kroner. SV has proposed similar support measures: we use a bit of the electricity charge and help those who rely unilaterally on electricity for heating to get a more flexible and environmentally friendly source of heating. I want to ask the Prime Minister if he wants to participate in such schemes and arrange the electricity charge so that the first kilowatt we buy costs less than the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e223	I can't just take a stand from the pulpit now on all the individual proposals from Sweden that Heidi Sørensen mentioned, and earmarking revenue for certain expenditure purposes is a system with which the Storting is generally held back. It is crucial not whether it comes from the electricity tax, but whether there is an increased grant for the development of alternative energy for an additional measure. We have invested significantly in this in recent years, there has been a clear increase over several years, and I have also worked hard for whether I have been in government or I have been in a big deal. We have established Enova, which will be a very important instrument for such actions as the representative Sørensen mentioned here. In general, I think SV and the government in this area are in line, and then we will continue to discuss concrete individual measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e228	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e231	It should not surprise anyone that we have an anti-employee government. They have now expanded the overtime framework, they are in favour of weakening job protection, they want to weaken the health pay system, and yesterday the Minister of Oil and Energy was here and said that he would use workers as an input into energy policy. In fact, he encouraged large consumers, especially the power-intensive industry, to stop their production so that they could sell the electricity. Then we've seen through the media that it's not certain that those who are being permitted or cancelled from these businesses will get leaven once. Does the Prime Minister think it is a right policy to use employees in this inadequate energy policy that the Government is pursuing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e236	The President is very much in doubt whether this has anything to do with the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e239	Yes, I must also say that I am strongly in doubt about that, and it was a presentation of the government's policy that at the point after point was misleading and wrong. Firstly, of course, this is not an anti-employee government. We have led an economic policy now that, together with other factors, has contributed to a reduction in interest rates. It is employee friendly. We are in the process of working with the social organisations in terms of income policy, including: the employee organisations. It is employee friendly. We have no desire to weaken the sickness pay system. That is why we are working on a project for an inclusive working life to try to bring down the rapid increase in sick pay without interfering with employees’ rights. We have not intended to use the employees in such a trendy way as the representative of Klungland now gave the impression, and I am also convinced that the Minister for Oil and Energy will not recognize himself in that description.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e250	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e253	Yesterday, in the Minister of Oil and Energy's statement, we were told that the government's measures to fine the high electricity prices were a few hundred-fold increase in housing support for disadvantaged people, and that 20 million were to be disposed of. kr on an information campaign. This can only be described as a provocation against the Norwegian people. The government and the majority of the population, despite numerous warnings from the Progress Party, have now led us into a power crisis with prices that force more and more people to go to the social office, and while people out there have to bleed like that, the Norwegian state – the richest state in the world – hopes in extra billions, among other things. in the form of VAT. Is the Prime Minister comfortable with such a situation, and what does he actually want to do to plow these extra billions back to the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e258	As I have expressed several times, no one is comfortable with a situation where the power price is so high. This is because, as I have stated earlier, a low-precipitation harvest and a relatively early and cold winter. Then such situations may arise. We are now taking measures to address problems for those who are coming out the most difficult, and we are pursuing an energy policy that will provide a better balance in the longer term. We are not in favour of the policies of the Progress Party – we cannot call it force-socialism, since it is the Progress Party, but a similar policy – which, in my view, is a little environmentally friendly, and the Cooperation Government is taking the environment seriously. It has to do with future generations. With regard to billions of income, I have to remind the representative that there are different factors in the Norwegian and international economy that allow incomes to fluctuate both up and down. We will get an overview of this when we come to the revised national budget. We cannot today say how this income picture evolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e266	Then we move on to the next main question. Otherwise, power-socialism is not an inconvenient word.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e271	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Last night's evening number of the evening post says Marit Solli, who is the head of the Slum Station in Oslo, that they notice a strong move in terms of people who are really struggling in front of Christmas, and who need extra food bags from the Salvation Army to get Christmas to go around. «Users have become 50 per cent more since 2000,» reports the Slurry Station of the Salvation Army, and the Bymission of the Church also reports the same. So there are more people who are now struggling with what we can call direct poverty, in one of the richest countries in the world. What does the Prime Minister think about this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e278	I believe that it is unworthy of our welfare society that there are still so many poor people in Norway who have such problems as the representative Kristin Halvorsen now referred to. I'm going to visit one of the organizations that Kristin Halvorsen mentioned, namely the Church's City Mission, which is doing an impressive job in this area. I think we need the voluntary organizations, which reach the most disadvantaged, as well as what we can do on the part of the authorities. As you know, the co-operation administration has taken action in the 2002 budget to help the poor beyond the proposed Stoltenberg government, among others. We increased the children's supplement to the underprivileged, we increased the rates of the guidance social assistance scheme, we adjusted the price of the grant to light and heat in the housing support scheme, which had not been done for a long time, and where the Workers' Party actually proposed the closure of the template grant, and we strengthened the housing support scheme. We also have several actions in progress for 2003, which I am sure the representative will be aware of, among other things. strengthening the follow-up service for the homeless, many of which we have in Oslo, improving the housing support system for disadvantaged families of children, grants for urban youth measures, measures to combat poverty through the work of voluntary organisations. This is presented to the State budget for 2003 and the longer-term poverty plan. And this is precisely because we have the same concerns as the representative Halvorsen, that is, that there are still too many in our own society that fall through in our welfare systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e285	It must be a real declaration of failure for this government when it is not just that one cannot eliminate poverty, but that it is actually increasing. Because even though the Prime Minister is for non-governmental organisations, it is not possible for the Government to aim for the Church’s City Mission, the Salvation Army and others who do a very necessary and important job to do more because of public failure. And that's the situation. Many of those who come to the Salvation Army or to the Church's Bymition have been rejected in the social office. They don't have the opportunity to get another penny for Christmas in the social office, and that's the background for them to come. This is not a jubilee for those who are the poorest among us. It feels unworthy and difficult to go to the end station of the poor, who are the Salvation Army. I have a concrete challenge for the Prime Minister. It's like today that it's up to the municipalities if people get an extra contribution from the social services for Christmas. Most of us get half tax credits because we take into account that we have extra costs for Christmas, but that's not for social clients. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Government want to help all municipalities make an extra contribution to their social clients in connection with Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e292	I must ask the representatives to have respect for the speaking time. That's the only way we can solve this with roughly equivalent ratios.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e295	I am convinced that those who sit at the social offices are absolutely thinking about themselves. I can't go out with a decree from here today on this, but the social offices in the municipalities that are close and have visits to the clients, I think they're the closest to evaluating it, so that everyone gets to celebrate a most dignified Christmas. Some of the things that really upset me when I walk around Oslo – and I've also been out with the Salvation Army recently – are the homeless, those who don't have a roof over my head. Next year, the follow-up service for the homeless in the big cities is strengthened by 30 million. NOK, and it is precisely to give a handshake to that work. And it's going to happen in collaboration between volunteers and the public. Of course, there is no goal for the Bymission and the Salvation Army to have more to do. This is in addition to the other measures we have proposed in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e302	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e305	Is it the fact that the Prime Minister is here and really happy with the Government's efforts, when the situation is so substantial that the differences are increasing and there are more people asking for help from the Salvation Army, and the Salvation Army reports that they are actually getting less in their Christmas rhythms this year than before? It's a serious hindrance when this government has actually made sure that on permitting there are several families of children who have to spend more. Over the New Year there will be pressure towards more overtime, there is a risk of contraction in sick pay, decisions have already been made about less for child care for single families, and we know the situation in municipalities. A poverty package is good, but does the Prime Minister not see that if one now reduces the targets that one has when it comes to additional tax havens and allows cash support to go only to those who look after their children's homes, will one have much more to do with those who have the least?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e314	The Prime Minister will never be satisfied with the government's efforts until we have been able to properly combat the problems that the representative Kleppa has now addressed. I thought it was nice that the two of us could work together in the central government on the so-called Equalizer message. Much of the groundwork of the co-operation administration has been followed up, namely the action plan to combat poverty in Norway. It's actually the first time a government has put forward such a plan, and it could possibly value some more. In the 2003 budget, we have proposed a number of measures in the care sector and in the fight against poverty of about 400 million. a total of DKK, which is intended to benefit these groups. I mention several measures in the labour market, including: for long-term social welfare beneficiaries, extended social security rights for lone parents in education, strengthening the follow-up service for the homeless, measures in the big cities, more low-threshold services in the care of drug users, etc. I'm sorry, I'm not coming anymore. I think maybe you should focus on this instead of just attacking the government's tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e321	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e324	What upsets SV is that we have a prime minister who is obviously more concerned with plans and paper than with reality and trying to do something with it. For reality, here is the one, in what was in the Evening Post last night, that poverty is increasing despite the plans put forward. Yesterday, Stortinget and the Government granted NOK 5.8 billion and thought it was good to spend so much more on contaminating the Barents Sea. All errors were then admitted, while those who go to the social office are to be tested for their needs and experience unworthiness. And many of them end up at the City Mission of the Church and at the Salvation Army. How is it possible for the Prime Minister to be a helpless spectator to allow this to develop during his reign?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e334	I must say that I myself get quite upset when representatives stand and accuse the Prime Minister of being insensitive and a helpless spectator – in an area where I have actually engaged quite strongly. I had hoped that I could have let go of this. I must also mention that the measures I have referred to for 2003 have, of course, not yet been able to work, because the 2003 budget is starting to work from 1 January. Then it is not possible to set it up against the situation today. Actually, I think I know a little bit about it. I have visited the Salvation Army. I'm going to visit the Church's Bymission today. I'm going to get a clear picture of reality. I've been out in Oslo streets with those who work there, so I know some of that reality, not just through descriptions in the evening post. That is why this government has now presented the most comprehensive measures ever proposed to combat poverty. Perhaps we could concentrate on working together on them – and would like to strengthen them – instead of making such accusations that I feel that I am now being subjected to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e343	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e346	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. I think it is necessary to follow up on a question of the situation on the energy market, primarily because the Prime Minister answers very evasively both in terms of the question of those who are poor and will have problems with a sharp increase in the electricity price, and in terms of the problems that some industrial workers are currently facing, also as a result of the electricity price. The Prime Minister chooses in a familiar style to show that the Workers' Party has had influence, and that we have had an industrial minister named Eivind Reiten, who came from the Senter Party. According to my head bill, Prime Minister Bondevik has been Prime Minister in Norway for three and a half of the last five years. And then my simple question is: does not the Prime Minister then have responsibility for the current situation in terms of electricity supply in the market, and also for the situation of those who will be hit by a sharp increase in the electricity price?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e355	Yes, I can assure the representative of Solberg that the Prime Minister is fully aware of his responsibility, and I also know how long I have been a prime minister. But others who have also been responsible cannot run from it either. We have to take responsibility, we who have been responsible for energy policy, for social policy and for measures to combat poverty. As far as the last point is concerned, I believe that this government has done more – and it shows the facts – than any previous government has done. So I'm not running away from that responsibility at all. But the fact that we have had an unusually low rainfall harvest, and the fact that we got a relatively early and cold winter, I guess the Prime Minister alone cannot take responsibility for it. But the energy policy and measures to remedy the difficult situation this creates too many, of course the government of the country, together with the Stortinget, is responsible for, and the prime minister is fully aware of that responsibility. That is also why we are proposing the measures that I have outlined in the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e360	It was good to hear that the Prime Minister takes that responsibility, after he has used most of his answers to point out to everyone else who has and should take responsibility. I have recorded that the most concrete answer the Prime Minister and the Government have to those who will have problems with the electricity bill is 30 kroner more a month in housing support. I don't think the Prime Minister has answered so far whether he himself believes that it is a satisfactory way to help those people who will get an increase of perhaps NOK 4000 – 5000 on their electricity bill in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e367	I have explained further measures beyond that. I have explained measures to guide customers in the energy market, which can actually mean significant savings in relation to the current bills that many people have today. I have explained that the Council of State has initiated a meeting with the power companies to assist those who come out the most difficult. I have explained that a derogation is granted from the regulation, so that the transmission system companies can actively offer monthly invoices to their customers for a limited period in the future, which can remedy the exceptional and difficult situation. I have also stated that the Government will continuously consider further measures. So my answer didn't just go on one point, as the representative Solberg said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e372	The President allows three follow-up questions – first Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e375	One of the measures mentioned by the Government to remedy the power situation is that large consumers of energy, i.e. industry, should either shut down their business or leave off their employees. The Minister of Energy said yesterday that power-intensive industries have the opportunity to sell power to the market if they reduce their activity in winter. And I assume that with still high prices more companies will assess their power consumption in winter. In plain text, this means that employees are either to be cancelled or permitted, to go into unemployment, and that there is going to be a way to solve the power crisis. That's why I think it was rather strange to hear the Prime Minister reject the question of whether you actually use employees in the industry as an input to solve the energy crisis. That's exactly what the oil and energy minister actually says. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does he also mean that thousands more of industrial workers should be pushed into unemployment to solve the power problems in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e382	No, we're not going to use increased unemployment as a tool to reduce electricity prices. I can be sure of that. For this government, full employment is a primary goal, it's the whole main line behind our budget. It could be enterprises that are in a situation where they have power for sale. They shall not push people into unemployment to obtain it, but they may be in a situation where they have free power for sale. It can remedy the situation. In such cases, of course, it may be reasonable. But it's something other than actively using unemployment as a tool to reduce electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e389	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e392	Yesterday the Storting got a statement from the Minister of Oil and Energy about the precarious situation in the power market. Despite extremely high electricity prices that force more and more people in the social office, obviously the government has not understood the seriousness of the situation. You have to continue your endless desert hike in the hope that only people use less power, everything needs to be taken care of. And unfortunately, you still have the same belief that alternative energy sources are going to save the situation, despite the fact that it obviously hasn't worked. For many years this situation has been warned by the Progress Party, but unfortunately deaf ears have been spoken of. Will the Prime Minister now, as the Head of Government, show action and cut through so that we can increase power generation and thereby get cheaper electricity – of course, in addition to lowering taxes – so that people can live with the electricity bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e400	The representative of Waksdal's claim that the government has not understood the seriousness is not correct even if it is repeated. The government has understood the seriousness, and we take this as seriously as the parties on the Storting. I have explained both the short-term and the long-term measures that the Government is in favour of. I am aware that they do not all coincide with the policies of the Progress Party, but that does not mean that the energy policy of the Progress Party, and even less its environmental policy, is better than the policy of the Cooperation Government. We are putting in place increased measures in the context of the housing aid scheme, in terms of information measures, and in terms of payment deadlines for consumers. We are also willing to consider further measures, both those that may be proposed in the Stortinget, and continuously in other ways. We can get back to that. But I do not think it is right to leave the electricity charge to a kind of yes, just after the Storting has decided it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e409	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e412	I notice that the Government will invest in further information measures and additional measures, and that is good. Not all of the measures mentioned by the Prime Minister are entirely new, but they are nevertheless good. At the same time, I also believe that there is a need to think about new energy developments in the future. Many of the measures we are now putting in are going to expand wind power, expand heat solutions, and they go in relation to industries, businesses and industry. Very few of the measures are targeted at consumers. To create an environmentally friendly energy policy in the years to come, we need to combine environmental friendliness and consumer friendliness. That is why I think it was a little too simple that the Prime Minister now rejected the question of designating the electricity tax for action against households, because it should be one of the measures that the Government now has to assess. Why can't people see that part of the fee they pay can be used when they choose to act environmentally friendly and energy friendly, for example. When they install waterborne heat? And why can't they also get a tax deduction for that kind of investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e421	I will not leave the pulpit to reject further good measures. And seeing the relationship between environmental friendliness and consumer friendliness, that is, it's worth paying for the individual to act environmentally friendly, I agree with that is a good principle. If one does so by beginning to designate parts of the electricity charge for the transfer to certain energy saving and an increment measures, I am somewhat more in doubt about that. But as I said, I'm not going to categorically reject it. We would like to discuss this further, but I am well aware that the Storting is generally reluctant to designate the use of income from certain charges. I'll take that into account. But, as I said, both in the service of the environment and consumers, we must consider such proposals. It will in any case not be able to remedy the situation we are up in this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e429	I also want to ask questions to the Prime Minister. Strong forces want a rematch on Norwegian EU membership. Norwegian EU membership will have a major impact on Norway. Norwegian agriculture will undergo structural changes that will have extensive consequences, not only for farmers, but also for the cultural landscape in which most of us are happy. Norwegian seas will become EU seas, and we will be subject to a fisheries regime that is not sustainable. It is naive to believe that Norway will be able to become an EU member without releasing fish resources. We will have to pursue an economic policy that is not adapted to our economic situation, which will lead to higher unemployment. EU membership will mean further centralisation of the power of the bureaucracy in Brussels; democracy and the People's Council will lose. Opinions from the Prime Minister and other central Christian People's Party politicians provide the basis for asking whether the Christian People's Party is drifting in the EU case. Does the Prime Minister think it is necessary for the Christian People's Party, on the basis I have mentioned, to change its view on the issue of membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e442	I myself have been and am opposed to Norwegian EU membership, and many of the reasons that Haga mentioned now are also mine. For me, this is a matter of balancing the benefits and disadvantages of the different forms of association. The disadvantages now mentioned by the representative Haga have been greater for me than the benefits of EU membership. Therefore, I have also believed that the EEA Agreement has been good for Norway, probably unlike the representative Haga! I think we would have been in a very serious situation if we had not had the EEA agreement, as the Central Party wants, because it has given our companies a level playing field in the large internal market, which is now becoming even bigger. But it gives us greater freedom than EU membership, and it has in a way acted as a national compromise between those who would not even have the EEA Agreement and those who wanted EU membership. However, any serious political party must discuss this situation at certain intervals if fundamental changes occur. The Christian People's Party will normally deal with its programme at its national meeting in spring 2005. The representative, Haga and others, can be absolutely certain that we stand on what we have promised the voters in the programme we now have, namely that we are in favour of the EEA Agreement as a form of association with the European Union and are opposed to membership. The Sem statement also makes it clear that if someone were to try to change this in the period that this government exists, the basis for the Government is gone. But we also need to be so open and nuanced that we are willing to make assessments if fundamental changes occur in Europe. I have not thus said that it leads to another conclusion, but I think it would be a little strange if one is not willing to go into a balance of advantages and disadvantages when one sees that the European map becomes completely different, and that also small countries, among other things. Baltic, now on its way into the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e453	If Norway were to become an EU member, we would also have to participate in economic and monetary union. In an economic sense, Norway is a different country. We have very low unemployment compared to most EU countries, and we have a high level of activity in the economy. So we have completely different economic challenges than most EU countries do. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what he thinks Norwegian relations with the euro and EMU will mean for unemployment in Norway. What will that mean for the budget balance in terms of welfare savings or tax relief? In view of the Prime Minister's desire to balance benefits and disadvantages, I would also like to ask whether the Government will initiate an investigation into the implications of participation in EMU and the introduction of a common level of interest with the EU for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e458	With regard to EMU, economic and monetary union, and the euro – without which I have signalled any particular EU position – it is not as well known to all EU countries participating in the euro zone. Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom are not present, but at least a few of those countries will have a referendum on it. That gives you the possibility that they either go into the zone or stay out of the zone. There is therefore no automatic link between membership and participation in economic and monetary union and in the euro zone. However, it is clear that if and when the membership issue comes up again in Norway, it is important that a decision has been examined in good time prior to the decision. these questions. So there I agree with Haga's representative. At all events, I do not think we have any urgency about the debate on a possible change of form of association, because the European Union is now undergoing a major transformation, and we need to see what the European Union is all about if we are to invite the people to a new referendum. What will the Convention and the Government Conference end up in? What is the experience of enlargement? Which space will be given, for example: small countries with regard to influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e465	There will be two follow-up questions – first Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e468	I would like to ask a follow-up question to Mr Børge Brende, Minister for the Environment. Whether Norway is in the EU or outside, we are going to be a small country with a limited number of inhabitants. Some people believe that Norway will be a huge country if we become a member of the EU, while if we are outside, we are small and meaningless. It's not like that. There are, in fact, international arguments that are better now than before, that Norway should be outside the EU, that is, that we have an opportunity to play a role on the side of the EU. We do not need to coordinate our foreign policy with the EU and may have, for example, the EU. another driving role in international environmental negotiations. What Environment Minister Børge Brende did in Johannesburg has been presented as such. Does the Minister for Environment Børge Brende see more benefits now from Norway’s being outside the EU, just to be able to influence and play a different role internationally than he might have done earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e478	In my view, there is no doubt that of the major international actors, the EU is the strongest and most important driver of higher environmental standards, including in the context of development policy. We experienced this in Johannesburg, where the EU pressed, among other things, The United States, Russia and also China. However, it is also true that Norway, among other things, through the efforts of the Minister for Development and my own commitment to the environment, supported what was then the EU's commitment, and also in a few areas highlighted very important issues for Norway. What I notice in my everyday life is that very many of the things we get on the table on environmental policy are defined in the European Union, and in some areas we must actually now reach out to meet the demands of the European Union. This applies both to the Water Directive, where Norway has to invest billions in the future, and to the Sewage Directive, where we are not in target. The EU's environmental policy and Norway's environmental policy have been closely intertwined.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e485	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e488	My follow-up question goes to the Prime Minister. The Christian People's Party was opposed to Norwegian EU membership when there were six Member States. They were also opponents when there were 15 Member States, and I record that the Christian People's Party, at least the Prime Minister, is now in doubt when there can be 25 member countries. That doubt does not concern the Centre Party, and I am somewhat surprised that it alone has caused the Prime Minister to doubt. It is not the number of Member States that determine whether Norway should become a member or not; it is the development of the EU. Developments are slow, but certain towards the United States of Europe, with more and more common policies, common banks, common constitutions, proposals for a president, common government and more and more common policies, with greater influence on small countries at the expense of small countries. In addition to this, we will still have to give up the control of our important fishing resources by any EU membership. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister not see that the reasons we had for saying no in 1994, to at least the same extent, are there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e497	The no-arguments are the same as in 1994, which is why I have not changed my position. But I'm actually among those who have seen that there are both advantages and disadvantages of the different forms of connection, and who have been willing to balance them against each other. It's possible that Enoxen doesn't see it this way and will never see it this way, and never be willing to enter into a debate if that is the case. It's got to be his case. I am so sure of my views on this issue that I am fully willing to address new debates and balance benefits and disadvantages. The Christian People's Party's position is firm. The Sem declaration, where we agreed that the basis is gone if one party takes seriously the issue of membership, is firm. However, we need to be able to take inwards and be willing to assess in a new round that the EU is changing from being a Western European to becoming a much wider European organisation, even though it is not yet pan-European. As far as developments in the EU are concerned, I think we should be a little cautious about predicting it. When the organization becomes so wide, integration may not be as deep as the Enoxsen now gave the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e508	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e511	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Some of what people think is least acceptable is that people are treated differently, depending on whether you are tall or low. If you are convicted of social security abuse in Norway, you will be severely punished. It has to be, because if we are to keep these welfare systems up, we have to make sure that abuse is not tolerated. That's the only way we can keep the arrangements up. In recent times, another matter has arisen, where, to put it that way, a retired state council has made a similar mistake, which may not formally be a mistake, as social security abuse is, but which I believe in people's eyes and in moral sense is just as serious. I need to ask the Prime Minister if he shares that view that it should be a guiding principle that if you make the same kind of mistakes, you should be treated the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e520	On the general question, the answer is a clear yes. It should be equal to treatment for similar cases. But for me to go further into the specific matter Karin Andersen now brought up, I do not find it right. As regards the question of remuneration, the administration of the Prime Minister's office deals with that matter. I also found it correct, since it was a government council from a former government, and I have taken note of the administration's assessment. In addition, according to a press release, Økokrim has initiated research on all aspects of the so-called barrel case, which has more aspects than this one point. Since this is now under investigation, I do not find it right from Storting's pulpit to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e529	I thank you for the answer and understand that the Prime Minister cannot go into the specific matter. But I think it's important for both government and greatness now to look at and make sure that principles in such matters are followed, that there is equality too high and too low, no matter who you are. It is such that some people are in a situation where they can adopt their own arrangements. Of course, those who are dependent on social schemes or welfare schemes that we adopt cannot. Then I want to challenge the Prime Minister once more, more on the principles. I think the Prime Minister may be a little more specific. Does he think that, in the light of this case, there is a need to go through all the arrangements similar to this one, which makes you coordinate the rules, so that they become the same for those who receive social security benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e536	As I said in my first answer, I agree with the basic principle that there should be equality too high and too low when it comes to such questions and the reaction to possible infringements. I believe that the investigation by Ecokrim is an expression that this is equality. They have launched investigations on all aspects of this matter before a former Council of State. It shows that they have made no difference in this way – whether it is from a so-called high position, or someone who should have another. I am also convinced that the necessary review of all arrangements will be carried out to the extent necessary. That is probably the practice of the schemes more than the arrangements that are needed to review. As far as schemes for politicians are concerned, whether in government or in general, they are still being reviewed, and we also know that initiatives have been taken here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e545	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e551	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 18, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Education and Research, has been withdrawn. Question 24, from the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 25, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e567	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «A man from Kolvereid has been refused an application for the remission of the annual tax on his mobile home who burned up during winter storage at the end of the year last year. The signs were delivered on 9 January this year. Similar situations may arise where cars are stolen before the annual fee expires and the car will not be repaired. Int. S. No 255 for 2001-2002 requests a majority of the Minister of Finance to ensure that the legislation is amended so that the annual fee in such cases can be waived even for the current year. When will the Council of State implement such changes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e576	Under the applicable legislation, full annual charges shall be paid for vehicles registered per vehicle. 1 January, or registered during the first six months of the year. In the case of a vehicle registered during the second half of the year, half of the fee shall be payable. If a vehicle registered per 1 January, delivered to wreckage before the due date of the fee on 15 March of the same year, you do not pay a fee. If a vehicle is delivered for wreckage between 15 March and 1 July, it is possible to apply for a refund of half the fee. In the case referred to, this means that the owner of the van could avoid a charge if the car had been delivered to the wreck before 15 March. On the other hand, the surrender of the signs alone does not exempt the fee obligation for the current fiscal year. The annual fee is currently under assessment both in the Directorate of Customs and Fees and in the Ministry of Finance. One of the aspects to be considered is the possibility of creating greater coherence between the charge and the time the vehicle is registered. Such an assessment must also take more systemic aspects into account. What do I put into the concept of ‘systemic’? These include: the fact that the annual fee is charged for more than 2 million vehicles. It is therefore important to have a system that does not contribute to increased red tape and thus reduces the efficiency of taxpayers’ money. Any changes in the annual tax resulting from this work are likely to also have an impact on the situation of the theft, as the questioner here concerned. It is therefore natural to also deal with the Storting’s obligation to pay an annual tax on stolen vehicles in this context. The government will come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e592	I thank you for the answer and understand that there is hope in the hanging string. Can the Minister of Finance say how much time is needed for the review? If an overall review is time-consuming, wouldn't it be possible to make this change for them – I don't suppose very many – as this applies? For those who are hit, whether it is of theft or fire, and who have not thought of it or had the opportunity to return to the wreckage to get the year's tax back or drop it that way, could you not implement this change as soon as possible, so that you did not get more such cases, as I think people seem to be quite unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e599	I have doubts as to how unreasonable it is that you should not interfere with the rules governing the surrender of signs; that is simply not enough. That would have been a point, to drop a pretty large amount. I do not think that this question in itself causes us to make changes in this one area. The size has asked for an overall review. There are two problems with the annual fee. One is that there are many annual fees to be levied. That means there's a big bureaucracy and a huge cost of it. The second problem is that the distance between collection and maturity time is not always perceived as fair by the users. I also consider that to be a problem. Then we have to find a solution that is able to reconcile simple collection – that is, avoid bureaucracy and avoid costs – with a system that is also seen as fair and fair, and that is what the Stortinget has asked me to do. There are probably two possibilities, to return a reply to this with the date: one has been audited, and the other is an ordinary budget. I can't now say if we reach it to the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e608	I thank you for that. I can understand that in the cases where the vehicle burns, you will have the opportunity, but in the case where the vehicle is stolen, you do not physically have the opportunity to have it delivered to the wreckage and thus avoid the annual tax. I hope the finance minister can think about this again, and see if it is possible to find an unbureaucratic way to solve a small problem quickly, pending a more comprehensive review.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e613	I am open to good proposals – including from the representative – to a simple and unbureaucratic way of doing so in cases such as those mentioned here. In the case of stolen cars, the relationship with the insurance company must also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e621	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Although the number of Equations Offices and Equations Officers in 2001 was reduced to 99 office/supervisors, the Equations Management Boards still have to adhere to 434 Equations Titles and 434 Equations Titles. The fact that most of the Equation Offices have to adhere to several subjects is costly, leads to longer processing times and can also result in different equation practices within the same office. Will the Council of State take the initiative to reduce also the number of equality subjects and subjects from 434 to 99?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e630	I think the representative Hagesetter raised an important question. We must constantly ask ourselves how we can organise public activities so that individuals can get better services for tax money again. When we reorganize in one area, it will also be natural to look at the organisation of related areas. The major reorganization of the country’s current equation management, which is to be completed in a year’s time, is an example of this. I therefore agree with the underlying idea of the representative, Mr Hagesett, that it would be natural to assess the current structure of the equations. I would therefore like to contact the Tax Directorate and ask the Directorate to consider the question of making any proposals. I don't want to pre-shoot here the result of such a review. Let me add, however, that I see it as crucial that we continue to base the principle that the decisions of the equality offices can be submitted to independent bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e637	I thank you for your answer. I think this is a positive signal. There's a lot of advantages in reducing the number of equation topics. This will allow you to have more frequent meetings on the equation topic. Instead of many equation subjects that may only have two meetings a year, in the same office, one may have one that has more frequent meetings. One can ensure that one gains better competence among the members of the denominator, and one will also have lower costs, while at the same time getting better security. It's very important that you get to do something fast, if you're going to get this straight before the next fall option and thus the new composition of the denominators. Can I then interpret the Minister of Finance so that, in the event of an initiative being taken, there will be a proposal to amend the law in good time before the elections to the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e644	The representative here pointed to a number of advantages of fewer equation topics. I would also like to mention the moment he had in his question, namely the need to avoid different practices. It's very crucial. I can't promise the time of the review here and now, but the representative points to a significant moment, namely having a new system in place before new local authorities choose the topic of equations for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e649	I hope we get a change here. There is a lot of feedback about what should be done in this area. I still hope that you can take this matter up before the fall – out in the spring will be natural – so that the Storting can decide on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e654	I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e662	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Parents with shared parental responsibility, where children under the age of 18 live equally with each parent in one year, are similar to those in tax class 2 every two years. Would the Council of State consider it more fair if both were similar in tax class 1 for half of the year's income and in tax class 2 for the rest?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e671	In general, depending on the child does not entitle children to an equation in tax class 2. However, under the Tax Act, single care for children under 18 years of age is required to be similar in tax class 2. The rules are understood to be given by the parents who have cared for the child most of the year. In fact, care is essential here. In cases where the parents have agreed to share care, Class 2 shall be given to the parent who has lived with the child for most of the year. If the child lives as much with both parents, the solution has in practice been that the parents are similar in tax class 2, as the lone parent, every two years. Over time, current practice will produce somewhat the same results as if the benefits of Class 2 were shared between parents in each year of income, although the tax burden would vary slightly from year to year. However, if income varies greatly for either or both parents, real differences may arise over time. However, the economic advantage of being similar to class 2 which one of the parents would have in relation to the other is to be taken into account in determining the child benefit. The new rules on the calculation of child benefit, adopted by the Stortinget in June last year, also explicitly show this. These rules are expected to enter into force in the autumn of 2003. The progressive elements of the tax system do not make it possible to compare parts of the income in different tax classes in the same year of income. However, it is possible to imagine as an alternative a scheme where the distribution of class 2 is divided between parents per year of income. The main benefit of this will be a more even tax burden from year to year. Such a model would complicate the work of equations and would result in a very comprehensive and complex set of rules. In my opinion, such a development of the tax system is not desirable. Overall, I therefore believe that today's practice of equation in tax class 2 every two years for each of the parents is a sound solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e680	I thank you for your answer. I find that the answer was not appropriate. I understand that the Minister of Finance will stick to today's system, which I believe is unreasonable. It should have been added that you had a divided class here in those years. As you know, there is a big difference between being like class 1 and being like class 2. I am perfectly aware that this over time can even out, but nevertheless I believe that it would have been better to divide the year into two between the parents. We see here in many ways a new situation and a development in Norway where parental responsibility is shared. It's a completely different family structure. I also think that the equations and the tax system have to take into account. The finance minister also said that it was possible, but he would not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e689	I also pointed out in my answer to a few other points. The development towards more sharing of parental responsibility is a positive development. However, there is nothing that happened abruptly last autumn. So to say it like this, this problem has been lying there under changing governments. I record that previous governments have chosen this division every other year as the most appropriate. After all, some of the disadvantages of this scheme are now being removed from the new rules for calculating the child contribution I referred to, which will enter into force in the autumn of next year. In this way, we can say that the system that we have lived with for many years is now being improved, by taking into account the circumstances in which the income varies greatly when determining child contributions. I would also like to point out that the proposal that the representative himself suggests will be very difficult, taking into account the progressive elements of the tax system, and it can provide quite difficult sound social outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e698	Once again, I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. We'll get back to the question and evaluate it when we get bigger tax issues for Stortinget. I would like to go further and ask if it is within the terms of reference of the Skauge Committee to assess – I kept saying – the new family situations in relation to the tax equations being spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e707	I can well say that it does not explicitly, but the mandate is so open that I will not be surprised if the committee also raises questions on any freer basis, to put it this way. The size has asked for a notification of the tax reform. The committee's suspension is presented, after it has received one month's postponement, at the end of January. The message will then be designed, and of course, the Stortinget is free to take up the parts of the tax system that the representative has been involved in when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e718	«In the light of the decisions taken in the Church meeting in the autumn of 2000, 102 congregations held joint council elections at the same time as the last major elections. These communities had a much larger turnout at their community council elections than before. The increase is from 5-6 pst. up to 40. What will the Council of State do to enable this pilot scheme to continue, and what action will the Council of State possibly propose for the participation of several members of the State Church in the elections to the Council of Ministers?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e725	The fact that church members will stand up as candidates and vote in elections to the Socene Council is absolutely crucial for the functioning of church democracy. Nevertheless, participation in the Soknee Council elections has traditionally been low. Average only has about 3 pst. by the members of the church who have been heard to exercise their right. In the context of the selection of new Socne Councils in the autumn of 2001, several measures were implemented to increase the opening-up of the elections. One of the measures was to provide for a test scheme to keep the Soccer Council selection at the same time as the collapse option. The vote percentage of this Sock Council option increases to 3.6 pst. by those who voiced, while the number of voices actually increased by 22 pst. Norwegian social-scientific data service has been involved in the evaluation of the elections by the Ministry and the report was carried out in June 2002. The evaluation of these numbers shows that the increase in resolution of the selection can be explained mainly by increasing the selection number in the church sounds that took part in the test scheme. Here the selection was averaged 7.2 pst. The Church Council intends to submit to the Church meeting in 2003 proposals for action to increase participation also in the next Socene Council elections, to be held in 2005. It has also been suggested that changes in the electoral rules be dealt with by the 2004 Church Meeting. I expect that the question of adding Soknee Council options at the same time as deposit options will be central in this context. In addition to measures to increase electoral participation, it is also important to take action to get more church members to stand as candidates and to get more of those in the Socene Councils today to take action. And last, but not least, I see it as very important with measures to increase youth representation in the parish councils. I want to work for the necessary promises on the state budget when that time comes, and I am also waiting for the debate to be held at the Church Meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e740	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not satisfied with it. My question was, What will the Council of Churches do to initiate, motivate and drive greater electoral participation? We know that in the council elections there are many young women who do. Many beautiful young girls are there, and they have a strong commitment. But it's not funny to do this work when you have such a small part of the people in the Church behind you. I am concerned that the Council of Churches does not show greater power of action, and that no leadership is put in place to continue the beautiful system of combining a public election with a council election, and I ask again: Is the Council of State satisfied that there is such a low level of participation in the ordinary elections? And what will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e749	No, I'm just as happy with the voter's selection as the representative is - it's too low. The next Socrates Council elections are in 2005, which I also said in my answer. For this reason, we have some time to develop a strategy in relation to the 2005 elections. For me, it is important to bring with me the debate that will be at the church meeting next year, and to include the signals that it gives, in my further work to propose that one get greater polling. We actually have time to wait for the debate at the Church Meeting. Of course, we should also carefully review the evaluation report we have received. There will also be an important basis for the Church meeting when it comes to the debate. The only thing I'm a little afraid of, and we have to try to avoid, is that we're going to politicize the Socene Council elections. Well, that's the argument that makes some people think about putting this up to the big shot, because it's very easy to politicize these choices as well. I'm worried about that. Therefore, we need to find methods that the Church meeting also wants to support, and then I will follow up next time, when it has made its decisions and made its contributions to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e754	The last thing that came out was a little more reassuring. Because when we're going to have a broad people's church, I think it's crucial that we have a democracy that works, and I'm very concerned if the Church Meeting and the Council of Churches don't want to add the elections to a public election, precisely because we know that we'll get more participation, and if you choose the old solution, the ordinary system, we know that fewer will go and vote. And then there is reason for concern: do not the leaders of the Church want a broad democracy – a great deal of democracy – within the Church? Do you want the faithful Sunday churchgoers to make decisions? You can suspect that if you don't open up to follow up this test scheme, which has been so successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e759	I'm very much in agreement with the representative, but I'm not in agreement, and at least I don't think I want to have a vote in order that there should only be a certain group that uses the right to vote. I want a big selection, and I think we can do it in several ways. One of the measures we have taken is this trial scheme, which will of course be included in the further work, and which I am absolutely sure the Church meeting will also have a point of view. But for me, it is important to listen to what the Church's elected body says, and I can suggest actions in good time before the 2005 elections if I take the debate with me at the church meeting in 2003. I'm open to, for example. to make the ballot boxes stand more places than they do today – today you usually have to go to church to vote. We can use post offices, for example, to use different voice areas than what we've done to get more. There's a lot of ways to do it, and I hope that we'll get a far better selection than what we've had in the last few options.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e767	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: «The municipality of Linds proposes in its municipal sub-plan to re-disposal 90 land grown for residential purposes. This has been approved by the West-Agder County, despite the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, as late as in October of this year, has pointed out that the county is using too much cultivated land for residential purposes. What will the Council of State do in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e776	The municipalities are also agricultural authorities. The assumption is that they also respect national considerations when drawing up spatial plans under the Planning and Building Act. The adoption of national policies requires a restrictive line to be taken against the reallocation of productive land. Soil protection is anchored in several documents The Storting has undergone treatment. Both St.meld. No 29 for 1996-97 Regional planning and land use policy and St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 Norwegian agriculture and food production provide clear guidelines for the protection of productive land. Land plans according to the Planning and Building Act shall be submitted to the County Agricultural Board, which, in accordance with the rules applicable to ‘has a specific responsibility for ensuring agricultural land resources’. In order to ensure that this is done, the County Agricultural Board may raise objections to the plan drawn up by the municipality. I mention here that the County Agriculture Department is supposed to have been in dialogue with the municipality in the planning process and have given signals on which national targets and frameworks need to be taken into account. The Ministry of Agriculture has repeatedly, at the latest in a letter to all the county agricultural governments of 25 September of this year, underlined the importance of strict soil protection. Land plans for which no objections are available are sent to the Ministry of the Environment for information. It may then be assessed whether the plan is contrary to national interests. This is a three-month deadline. I will make sure that contact is made with the Ministry of the Environment on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e789	I thank you for the answer, which I see as positive in the sense that the Minister of Agriculture here underlines the need to meet national targets for the use of cultivated land. There is one reason here, but one also has regard for those who are farming and who will have to reduce their activities, and therefore also their own nutritional basis, if this plan is to be implemented. In addition, the moment comes when there is access in other areas for housing purposes, but they are not as central as the cultivated area, and it is clear that if an accept that this is going through, one could gradually get a practice in the different municipalities that are so liberal that it will go across the national targets around caring for cultivated land. I understand that the Minister of Agriculture here will keep an eye on the matter and also make the Ministry of the Environment aware of it, so that there will be an opportunity to review the matter at national level. I consider it a positive initiative in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e794	I would like to express myself, and I am sure I share it with the questioner, much concern that the take-off of cultivated land for other purposes in Norway today is too high. It puts us in some dilemmas, and it concerns both the questioner and the undersigned, who are concerned with strengthening and increasing municipal autonomy: how are we to ensure that the municipalities with increased autonomy also take the necessary national considerations on such sensitive and irrevocable issues as this? We're working on that in the department on a general basis, that was also the background for the general circular we sent out, and we're going to be very concerned about this when we're now going to increase municipal responsibility within part of the general agricultural light. With regard to this specific matter, as I said in my reply, we will ensure that we have the necessary contact with the Ministry of the Environment and see if this is such a national matter that we are going to use the access we have to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e801	I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether there are major difficulties in using national access, whether it has been used in the past, and whether there will be a greater chance of access being used. How does the Minister of Agriculture view the possibility of using what you actually have here? Can he give any further consideration about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e806	We sometimes use national access. The last major controversial issue was related to some enormously large agricultural areas outside Bodø, which the municipality and many interests wanted to use for expansion, but we used this access from the Government to take care of soil protection. This is something that has happened lately, and has aroused a lot of debate. If we are to be able to ‘learn’ the municipalities to give decisive attention to national concerns, it is also important to provide clear examples through these tools. But we also look at how we can get the municipalities and municipal decision-makers on board to understand the importance of soil protection. This will be important in the future when municipalities have greater influence over such and other agricultural matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e814	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The land manager of Våler in Hedmark can imagine doing an experiment with Våler as a free municipality without the concession law. If you ignore the site proposal, could this be something that the Council of State might consider and thus see the possibility of removing the whole law in the long term, so that agriculture and rural areas can evolve according to their possibilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e823	Tests Act – Law 26 June 1992 nr. 87 – does not allow the content proposed by the peasant leader in Våler to be tested. The law only permits derogations from rules of procedure and division of duties. Nor can the rules of the concession law be used to invalidate the law for a trial period. The proposal is therefore not feasible within the current legal framework. As mentioned in previous contexts, it is my plan to present proposals for a new concession law already during the spring 2003 session. Most of the proposals relate to the scope of the concession obligation, and the proposals aim to increase the freedom of concession to no small extent. As is known, the land limit for built-up property is proposed to be raised to 100 dekar if no more than 20 dekar is fully cultivated. The rationale for raising the land frontier is a desire to increase the frequency of agricultural property turnover in rural areas, including: to ensure the settlement. In my view, there is a need for an ongoing assessment of whether the legislation in agriculture supports current agricultural policy objectives. This is the main essence of the mandate of the Odelslovkommission, and it is also a central aspect of the proposal for a new concession law. In view of the work being done, it is desirable to assess the impact of these changes before we may move forward in the direction suggested by the representative of Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e834	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which unfortunately could not be interpreted so that Våler or other municipalities could be a free municipality without the concession law. What is positive about this issue of the concession law is not that the question is now raised by the undersigned and the Progress Party, but that it comes initially from a peasant team leader and is supported by parts of Hedmark Bondelag etc. Just in the interests of those who live in agriculture and want to live in and develop their municipalities, this law, as the Progress Party and now more and more see it, needs to be changed more quickly and finally removed, as it is a brake on the development of agriculture and on the development of municipalities. The point must be that those who want to work and live in the countryside must have the opportunity to buy housing and get a job in the countryside. This means that the system for the placing on the market of properties needs to be dissolved and simplified, even so that those who want to sell can be sold at an acceptable price, and that new people can move in and provide light in the windows. The concession law, as I see it, today helps to turn off the lights in more and more windows.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e841	I record that the questioner used the word ‘sorry’ for my answer. So that's what I said in the answer, that as a government council, I don't have a legal basis for making such an attempt, and I'm trying to keep to the promises of the Storting, as far as I can. I have to ask for understanding that I have to deal with the law. Then the question is how do we want the law in the future. That's something it's necessary to discuss. I warn you that we are making changes to the concession law that open up the possibility of a concession exemption for several properties, and therefore free pricing, and also housing only if the municipality you live in, has decided that it should be on a municipal basis. I agree with some of what the representative says, that we must probably base more of the settlement in the countryside in the future on housing, and not just on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e850	I thank the Council of State for the answer and also understand why the answer comes as it comes. But it's clear that it's a small step in the right direction to increase the area limit to 100 dekars if no more than 20 is grown. I can see that. But does the Council see that removing the concession law could increase the number of transfers from farmers and others with a farm that they want to sell? This is about two parties – at least. You have to agree on an acceptable price, about who is going to take over, maybe something about housing, etc., which is important. These are often matters of a sensitive nature. Sometimes it's about farms that have been in the same family for generations to come back, and the seller just wants to sell to someone he's sure to take over. The council sees that there are also a lot of feelings here, and that you want to be more involved and decide price etc. and not least who will take over without too much interference from the authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e857	I would like to emphasise again that the main contribution of the concession law to this is to provide us with the basis for at least a certain amount of price regulation on agricultural properties and also this five-year requirement to live in, relating to the concession. If you were to repeal the concession law, as the representative claims and well his party has programmed, it would mean that you would get a full price formation on all types of agricultural property, and there would be no obligation to live with them. It will probably, as I see it, be a real danger that very rich people who do not live in the countryside will see themselves profited from buying many agricultural properties, which they may not want to live on either. But if we now experience a situation where young people who either want to move to the countryside or who live in the countryside don't see it as possible to obtain an agricultural property, work on a certain concession law somewhat against what is intended. That is also the background to the review we now have, which is not about removing the law, but adapting the law to the reality that many live in around Norwegian communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e867	«A sibling couple from the municipality of Beiarn in Nordland inherited their childhood home in 1988. In the inheritance agreement, the two siblings agreed that one would take over the old house, while the other would take over the property. When she now wants to get the house disbursed from the rest of the property, she has been rejected by the agricultural authorities, while undertaking to disburse three cottages nearby from the same property. Will the Council of State facilitate the distribution of the legal inheritance in a dignified manner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e874	After I have been informed, the question refers to the problem. 38, point (b) 1 in the municipality of Beiarn. Arnold Furumo and his sister Unni Michalsen have applied for the divestment of the property one of two residences. In connection with the change between their parents, it was decided that Unni Michalsen and her husband would take over the house that was being sought for disproved. They have used the dwelling for recreational purposes since 1994, while doing and costing considerable restoration work. According to Section 12 of the Soil Act, property that is used or can be used for agriculture or forestry cannot be shared without the agreement of the Ministry. The Ministry may give its consent if social interests of high importance speak for it, or division is sound on the basis of the returns that the property may give. The decision-making authority for the type of cases raised by the representative here has been added to the County Agriculture Board. As the representative points out, the agricultural authorities have refused to share. This applies to both the municipality, the county and the state's agricultural administration as a review body. All three bodies have found that there are no social interests of high importance that speak for sharing. They have also come to the conclusion that the property, with its 77 dekar full-grown land, 45 dekar surface-grown land/fertilized pasture and 330 dekar productive forest land, needs two residential buildings. In this way, the younger generation can move to the farm and take over operations earlier than would otherwise be the case. The union dwelling thus ensures the continuous and sound operation of the property in the event of a generation change. I have also noticed that the local authorities are of the opinion that the operation of the property can be significantly increased, and that there is reason to believe that it will be driven further. The prohibition on sharing applies regardless of whether the sharing is by inheritance or otherwise. This I find reasonable, as the divisional rule would otherwise easily be illusory. For the same reason, I also believe that the determination of the individual case should not place the decisive emphasis on sharing in an inheritance settlement. I note that the case has been dealt with according to the applicable guidelines and that the refusal to share is in line with practice in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e889	That wasn't a nice answer. I'm sorry, that's what I figured. In my view, the division is sound. I also believe that this has been a bad case, among other things. because the decision in the local agricultural office is based on assumptions, such as: that the grandchild should take over and operate the farm. There's no reason to claim that. The infant has moved from the area, and has not given the impression of wanting to move on. Human considerations should also be taken into account in this matter. It's a total flaw in the logic when you dissociate three cabins right in the vicinity. It is also such that the owner of this house can tear down the house when he would like to do so. That means you don't have two living quarters, and you should also pay attention to it. My question is then: is it that the minister does not want to take the human considerations that are in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e898	The rules of the Earth Act are very strict in this area. The law of the land is from the 1950s onward, and it has put a very strict lead on the idea that agricultural property should be whole. The fragmentation of agricultural properties is to be avoided, and it is necessary to contribute to the growth and sustainability of agricultural properties. It has been the supporting part of Norwegian agricultural policy and thus the legal part of it for very many years. The treatment that has taken place here, not only at local level but also at county level and through appeals to the State's agricultural administration, has been based on current legislation and practices in this area. I have not gone further in the matter than to have assumed that it has been dealt with in the light of the legal rules we have. Then there's a question of whether these rules are too strict, and whether we should have softer rules on the issue of sharing and find solutions for the individual property that are consistent, among other things. with such a family as to want it. There are issues that we in the Ministry of Agriculture will consider in the future through a broader review of a legislative work that can go against a single agricultural law, where you look at the different rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e907	Of course, sharing is possible, because it is based on judgement. It is also said that in a judgment one can consider the division to be sound. For this reason, the Minister has the opportunity to make a judgement and consider it appropriate. It is also worth noting that Norway is the country which enforces these rules in terms of sharing the most stringent of all. The representative Ivar Kristiansen from Right and Northland has also spoken in Avisa Nordland on Saturday 16 November about this: "I hope then that someone will wake up and see the madness of what is happening. What we're experiencing is that the Earth Act is being practiced differently around the country. What kind of harm will Unni Michalsen cause to agriculture in Beiarn and Norway if she has taken over the childhood home, ask Ivar Kristiansen.» He goes on to say: ‘The decision is an infringement against the unparalleled individual.’ Does the Council agree with the representative Ivar Kristiansen on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e926	There are almost no issues that go on the individual use, issues of sharing, questions of acquisition, questions of nobility, that do not create some evil blood, and that are humanly difficult. Then it is sometimes important to have looked at what we want to achieve with this. The sharing rules, the restrictive sharing rules over 40 to 50 years, have been based on ensuring that agricultural property is complete, so that in future they can also be agricultural property and contribute to the growth and potential of the countryside. We may have come to a point where we need to assess an embellishment of these rules in order to make it easier for, for example. a family that wants the children to have an anchorage on their family property in the future, which is partly difficult to share with today's rules. It is not my opinion that the Council of State has the opportunity to intervene in a matter like this. It has been dealt with by the State Agriculture Administration in the framework of today’s legislation. In that case, my task is to work on how the rules should be for the future. But we need sharing rules. We have so little gardening in Norway that we can't let it be free to draw them, stretch them and cut them up as you would like. We have to have national rules that take care of some national considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e937	My question goes to the Minister of Justice: ‘The list in Norway shall be organised in a different manner. Is it still the Ministry’s view that Stortinget’s premise in the reform decision, among other things? with regard to user proximity, a fairer public and user regime, better processing and improved quality of information will continue to be the result of the reform, or will there be information on the opposite of which the Stortinge should be informed?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e946	I am not familiar with any information that indicates that the department must reconsider the view on the reorganisation of the information presented in the Stortingen report and later on in the Stortingen's handling of the case. The Ministry still considers that the reform will have the effects indicated. I can confirm that the Ministry of the Environment assesses the organisation of the Staten Kartverk, as the Ministry of the Environment has informed in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003. In this context, it is stated that a conversion must be adapted to the decision that the Cartwork should take over the clearance of matters. I therefore assume that any conversion of the Cartwork will not have negative consequences for the reorganisation of the clearing of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e953	I thank you for your answer. I want to say in the beginning that the lighting of things is a service that we cannot fail in. Both the property turnover and some other conditions assume that there is a service that we can trust in the future. That is why, at least from the Labour Party side, we will follow this process closely. That is also the background to the question. I think that there is reason to ask now whether there have been any calculations in the Ministry regarding the economy in the reorganisation of the clearing of things – it was a matter that was up for the debate, without me thinking that we got some clear answers to that – and whether one would actually save crowns in relation to the quite extensive reorganisation to be carried out, taking into account both the property costs, operating costs and the annual work that has now been planned to carry out this extensive organisation. Will you be able to save at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e960	I have already referred to the answer I gave in Stortinget when the matter was dealt with, and I do not have any new information suggesting that I should respond in another way. Of course, it is very good that the opposition follows this case. The government does, too, because we are obliged to do a good job. We will go further with the job, as I expressed when the matter was being dealt with in the Storting, and as far as I remember, we have mentioned it in the budget proposal for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e965	I am not satisfied with these answers – partly on the basis of the fact that the debate never clarified the financial framework for this project, which, in my opinion, is very bold, and which we probably have to address in Stortinget several times. I now experience in many ways that reference is made to an answer that does not really exist in relation to the question of economics. That's the one. The second, which I also think is close to dealing with, and which the Council of State so far had in mind in its first answer, is the question of whether it is actually now considered that the disclosure service will come closer to the users, as the Minister of Justice has also stated several times, taking into account that the state budget in the case of the state's mapping works says that the merger of the county card offices is now approaching. Will this mean that the object intelligence service is getting closer to the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e970	I have previously referred to information known to the Storting through the Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal, so I like to repeat it very much. In the context of a map conversion, such conversion, if any, shall not have negative consequences for the reorganisation of the directory. That's what I'm thinking. I have no information that would indicate anything else. Of course, it is very commendable that the representative Storberget is following a case, and is also holding the debate again, which was held when we had the deliberations on the issue. I just have to repeat that the assumptions underlying the majority of the Storting and that the Government is obliged to follow, we will follow. If there are different views, of course we will act accordingly, and say from to the Stortinget. It is my general obligation to provide information, just as it is my job to follow up what the majority has instructed me to do. So I follow both guidelines. It's the rules of the game that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e979	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the State Council Dørum: «A contracting entity finds that the manager does not keep accounts, attachments are missing, VAT, employer's fee and tax payments are not paid, and, worst of all, million amounts are lost by the client's bank account. The companies went bankrupt and reported to the police, who ordered the cases. What will the Council of State do to investigate, prosecute and punish economic fraudsters, and what will the Council of State do to prevent fraudsters from hiding behind new companies and/or new identities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e988	The representative Dybevig addresses a serious problem, and we are aware that people who have been involved in bankruptcy appear relatively quickly in new companies. It's probably often the case that these have also had a personal financial gain from the bankruptcy. The cost of this type of crime to society is high and it is therefore important to combat it by effective means. I would like to stress that it is the government's expressed premise that the fight against economic crime must be continued and strengthened. After the police reform, the number of police districts reduced to 27, we have made it easier to pool and use the expertise of the police and the resources effectively. At the same time, this competence needs to be built up, as we have gained experience with in Ecoteam Vestfold Telemark. It is also important to point out that interdisciplinary cooperation is necessary, not least against the tax rate and the use of aid auditors. In a number of bankruptcies, financial crime is suspected during the settlement process. However, there are no permanent means in place to investigate this further. The Ministry of Justice is working on legislative changes such as: will address measures that may help to secure means of accommodation in the event of suspicion of crime. The Ministry of Justice will also follow up NOU 1999:23 Indebtedness crimes, developed by the Criminal Felony Council. The study proposes simplifications in the Chapter of the Criminal Code on Indebtedness Crimes, such as: deals with the issue of competitivity. I would also like to mention the establishment of a cooperation project between the board of directors and the police in bankruptcy cases to combat financial crime. The scheme is managed by the Directorate of Police and Ecocrim. It may also be appropriate to mention the Bankruptcy Board, which is working for effective, practical, performance-oriented and similar bankruptcy treatment at national level. The Council is appointed by the Ministry and gives a number of opinions and recommendations on bankruptcy proceedings. The Council is committed to contributing to measures that better enable residents and police to pursue competition crime effectively. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the Committee of Senior Officials on Economic Crime has initiated a project to be managed by the Directorate of Police. The project is a two-year project and will provide a basis for assessing the effectiveness of joint controls in the fight against economic crime. The pilot project shall primarily focus on new start-ups in the Oslo restaurant industry. In my opinion, it is doubtful that cooperation between control agencies is at the heart of the fight against economic crime, and in this context also the criminality of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1007	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that he says that a number of agencies are working on these issues, and that you are on the way to building up the competences of the different agencies, including the police. I'll take an example. To get to the bottom of this problem, I think it's important to give some examples. If you don't use examples, it'll easily be a theoretical exercise. The persons who commit this type of crime are losing their assets in the company. So they leave the debt behind, and then the company is bankrupt, and then there are actors who have claims in this company, who don't get their money. This repeats itself and repeats itself to many, many times. I can take an example from this industry, where the actual advertising of a company that operates in this way reads, "A partner gets better capital management." So here the companies feel that the funds are going to be completely gone. It must be in the interests of the State that taxes and employers' contributions are paid, that the rules of the Accounting Act are followed and that annexes are attached. Will the Council of State ensure that the police take hold of these cases when they get the cases, instead of laying them down, as they often do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1018	Of course, that's what the representative says, that it's through the examples of life that you learn, and it's necessary that it's like this for everyone. There are several things that can be done effectively with this. First of all, housing needs to provide sufficient resources so that, as conscientious housing managers, you can do the job you want to do. In addition, there are many conscientious housekeepers who, with the current funds, get things that they send on, but where the police are not good enough. That is why I stressed that we had to build up the competence of the police in both investigation and further prosecution, and I referred to the example that I have learned from the cooperation between Vestfold and Telemark, which has been very good, and which I want to take along in Police Norway. This is a development of competences that we in Police Norway also see in other areas. We are looking at it in the fight against violence in society; we are soon looking at it in the fight against trafficking and against child and youth crime. And then you have to be good. So it's important that there is a cooperation with other agencies, like you, for example. have been seen in the restaurant industry in Oslo, where local authorities cooperate, towards state agencies and the police. It is when the kind of events happen that you almost get a kind of picture in the sectors that possibly cheat, that the panic group has arrived. There is every reason to create creative panic among those who want to undermine the seriousness of most people by cheating. These are the instruments that we focus on, but it's just to admit that we haven't had enough capital in our homes to support our good estate managers or enough expertise in the police. Then it is important to press on to build up both parts, and I can assure the representative that it has a high priority from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1029	I want to deal with this with the landlord, because there are actually issues where the landlord has had money and has had the opportunity to investigate and find out what has happened in these matters. However, it has not been easy to get an overview of the economy, says the board of directors, and they are rejected when they seek contact with the people involved. They often go underground, but when they're imprisoned, taken care of by the police, they start talking out. In fact, a landlord says that for some people, this is a business concept, playing money out of people. It's been good money for someone. It's a million-dollar business for some people. However, the administrators have submitted a final report to the Eco section of the Oslo Police Chamber for the third time in the same company. The tax authorities and tax authorities have done the same, but the cases were dismissed after a few days. This is today's system, and I would say that today's system in a way rewards adultery and fraud. And then I'll ask the question: how are we going to re-enter the confidence of the open, free market if the oversight role is not working properly enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1036	The representative occupies the situation with good and new examples that I have described earlier. I have said before, and I would like to repeat it: there are very, very many very good and conscientious landlords who, despite often inadequate means, do a good job, and who often experience that their cases are being handed over to the police. At that time, it is very important that the police have sufficient competence to deal with matters, and in this context, cooperation with the police has also been initiated in relation to the tax rate in order to take advantage of the jurisdiction of the tax administration. Positions have also been created as poltirevisors. All of this is to strengthen competence, so that you can get into matters at an early stage. I want to refer again to the good experience we have just had in building such competence in a cooperation project between Vestfold and Telemark, and there are experiences that we will take with us in Police Norway to ensure that the competence becomes more general. The representative is quite right that there are new forms of crime that are refining old forms of crime and that it is dangerous in this area. People who have previously escaped for various reasons try again with new refinements. We can't let these people go, because at the end of the day, there are often many small business people left with bills and debts. They are crushed by these people, as I say, having a university degree in crime, and then we have to fight them with tough enough tools. And that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1048	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Health East is currently dealing with a case of restructuring the hospitals in Akershus. There are proposals for the closure of Stensby hospitals. Akershu County Authority has invested several tens of millions in the last years before state acquisition. Many were afraid that pressure against closure could increase after state acquisition. Does the Council of State consider that it is within his power to stop a closure even if it is decided by the Health East Board and, if so, will he use such an authorisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1057	The question raised by the representative Rikham concerns several different aspects relating to the organisation of hospitals in health establishments. Regional health enterprises have a comprehensive responsibility for the implementation of health policy in line with the decisions taken in this Chamber. Through the treatment of St. Prop. No 59 for 2001-2002 on the hospital economy, Stortinget has called on regional health businesses to implement significant conversion and efficiency measures, precisely in order to improve the impact of the use of healthcare resources. At the same time, the business model presupposes that important individual decisions are submitted to the Ministry of Health and that decisions are to be taken by the Enterprise Meeting, which is, in practice, the Minister of Health. The size has provided the general framework for the issues to be addressed for such a decision in the Health Business Act. I would like to stress that when such matters are presented to the Department, we need to be given the best possible explanation of the effects that these changes will have on the provision of services to patients. However, this should not block any migration and efficiency that provides better healthcare to patients and better use of resources. Health East has rightly assessed different approaches to the future use of Stensby. The board of Akershus University Hospital re-examined the matter of Stensby on Friday 13 December and decided not to continue the work of investigating the hospital's liquidation. Akershus University Hospital will instead use Stensby more effectively through increased and specialised ear-nose-neck activities, more planned surgery and increased intra-uterine activities, while emergency surgery will be discontinued. This conversion of operations has been planned for the new year in 2003. This also means that Health East does not continue further investigation into regional consequences in the event of the closure of Stensby. The specific issue raised by the representative Rikham is therefore not relevant, but in general, according to the law on health companies, I have the opportunity to stop any hospital closure. Of course, it must be carefully assessed for each proposal in terms of its consequences. At the same time, I would like to add that the role of the Stortinge in the management of health policy is important, and I want to take care of it through the planning and reporting system that the Ministry is now working on, as I also briefed on in the budget debate in this Chamber a week ago. The health business planning and notification system will be included in the Health Ministry's annual draft budget towards Stortinget as the basis for Storting's management of the specialist health service. In this context, it would be natural to report significant individual cases that have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1075	I thank you for your answer. In any case, it was clarifying in one area, which goes under the authority of the Council of State to stop decisions – in the Health East in this case. He can, and he was probably also concerned that he might do so if there is a reason for it. So to the concrete – Stensby Hospital: It is right that it has been decided that it should not be closed, but it should be through a dramatic restructuring. It's going to have completely different functions. That is to say, what is going on in emergency response is no longer going to be part of this hospital. The hospital shall operate largely electively. It implies, as I said, that it gets a completely different function. Then my question to the Council of State, as he said that the issue is no longer relevant because the hospital will continue to exist, but with a completely different function than it has had in the past: Does the Council of State believe that the decision taken in relation to the conversion of the function will allow him to intervene, as he may now have authority and can do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1082	I will, in consultation with the regional health establishments, keep reviewing the existence of cases, in particular in the context of the restructuring of the specialist health service, which suggest that the issues should be addressed at the business meeting. I have mentioned the possible closure of the hospital as an example of a matter that I would normally say must be dealt with by the owner. The question of division of work between hospitals and the restructuring of the division of tasks between hospitals, and neighbouring hospitals, will not normally be such as to require the presentation of the Ministry of Health. In that case it must be that there are very special aspects to the matter which warrant it. I don't think that's the case, as I'm briefed on, as far as the plans for Stensby hospitals are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1087	This is an important signal to the people of Upper Rome, who have this hospital as their local hospital, as their emergency hospital, within some areas. That means, as I now understand it, that the Council of State does not see the need to have this matter brought to its attention at the business meeting. This is a minor adjustment, a smaller restructuring. It's actually a little bit surprising. I'll almost say that it's not just a little bit, but quite surprising. This means that the kind of decisions, quite extensive and quite significant changes in the hospital structure, have moved away from the public space and been put in an enclosed space. So I'm going to ask the Council of State to think again if not also restructurings that have such consequences as this is about should be something he gets presented at the corporate meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1092	I have a relative when it comes to assessing what are matters of importance and which should be raised to the business meeting. That access I intend to use to implement what I perceive as the adopted health policy of the Storting. But I do not intend to use it for a detailed management of the hospitals in terms of their organisation, and in terms of the division of work between hospitals, because that was not the aim of the hospital reform decided by the majority of Stortinge. In this balance, I also want to be aware that hospitals will be managed through open processes. It is not that the process of restructuring the specialist health services in the Health East has been a closed process. On the contrary. All investigations have been made on the Internet, and there have been open discussions. The fact that the matter has aroused great commitment is a result of the fact that it has actually been an open process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1102	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Finnmark counties are larger than Denmark. Concern has now arisen as to whether the Nord RHF health region facilitates the closure of one of the hospitals or emergency services in one of the hospitals. Can the Council of State confirm that both Hammerfest Hospital and the Church Hospital shall have emergency medical functions in both places?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1111	Finnmark’s specialist health service is organised in a single enterprise – Health Finnmark HF. This entity has the practical responsibility for providing the whole county population with a specialist health service that is professionally good when they need it. Health Nord has responsibility for the health region Nord. Regional health enterprises have a comprehensive responsibility in line with the decisions taken in the Stortinget. Through the examination of St.prp No. 59 for 2001-2002 The Stortinget has called for regional enterprises to implement conversion and efficiency measures in order to improve the impact of health resources. In this context, the regional health enterprise has launched investigation work to see how best to meet the challenges of the future. This involves reviewing the tasks of enterprises and the organisation of the service provision. The constant specialisation of medical subjects and technological developments means that no organisation or structure can last for a very long time. A responsible follow-up to the ‘supplier’ responsibility means having a look at the organisational and structural changes that should be made to ensure a continuous high-quality service provision for the population. In the case of emergency services, Health Nord has recommended to their health care establishments that they have an 113-centre in each health care establishment. This is an organisational change – when it happens – that has no impact on the emergency medical supply of units that do not have 113-centres. The purpose of this change is to further improve the quality of the management of emergency situations. In Health Nord’s plans – as they have been submitted to the Ministry by notification of 1 December this year – there are no plans for either hospital closure or emergency services in Kirkenes. And Health Nord has also clearly stated that they don't have any intentions about it either. I feel that Health Nord is very conscious of the size of the health region, not least Health Finnmark's huge geographical area. I am sure that the regional health company in its work will facilitate a good health service in Finnmark – both around the Church Hospital and Hammerfest Hospital. Regarding the specific questions of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, I will not be able to answer them without undermining the positions and authority of Health Finnmark and Health Nord. However, I would like to make it quite clear that matters that involve a significant change in the service offer should be presented to me before a final decision is taken. And the closure of a hospital will be such a decision which is clearly to be raised to a political level by the Minister of Health. It follows from the Health Business Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1124	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, the provision of welfare services does not depend solely on how many doctors there are per year. the population, but also the distance to treatment. Finnmark is a large state. The distance between Kirkenes and Hammerfest is almost like the distance between Oslo and Trondheim. Of course, it is for the Workers' Group that both the Church Hospital and Hammerfest Hospital are to be passed. There was also a foundation under the government of Stoltenberg. It will be of great importance to the public’s security of the Minister of Health that both the Church Hospital and the Hammerfest Hospital should consist of emergency medical facilities both in both places.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1133	I refer to what the responsible health company, Health Nord, has said about this. I will quote from a press release they sent out on December 13: ‘There are no plans or intentions to close emergency preparedness in the hospitals in Finnmark. Health Nord will guarantee that Finnish mark-ups will have a high-quality specialist health service and accessibility adapted to the very special geographical and communication conditions of Finnish mark-ups. This means that the solutions can't be the same as the ones you can have where there are a few miles between the hospitals. At the same time, technical quality requirements must also be met in Finnmark. In some situations, closeness to offers and professional quality requirements may conflict with each other. Then professional quality solutions must be satisfied.» I assume that what Health Nord here says is a confirmation that they share the view that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen here expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1143	Let me first note that the Council of State and I agree that the issue of possible hospital closures cannot be decided by health companies alone. I also assume that emergency medical functions are involved in relation to this. I record what the Council of State refers to in relation to the decision of the regional health company. At the same time, the Council of State has stressed that the health business does not have any intention to close hospitals. He also says, as far as I understand, that you don't have any intention of decommissioning emergency medical functions. Can the Council confirm that he will stand by the fact that there will be two hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1150	I believe that I have already answered this additional question from the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, who I have put behind what Health Nord has said about exactly this, and which I have quoted in my first supplementary reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1158	I have the following question for the Minister of Health: «The party in Akershus pronounces to the Evening Post to be the Newspaper. 20 November d.o.b. the fact that the fixed medical system has made it easier for addicts to obtain A and B preparations. What can and will the Council of State do with this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1170	I assume that the representative Alvheim is aiming for a report in the Newspaper from the same date. Reference is made to a letter from the county doctor in Akershus to the Ministry of Health, where he has raised the question of access to information by permanent residents in the register. The county doctor believes that access to information on who is the patient’s permanent staff will facilitate better communication between decision-makers. As a result, the fixed medical system can significantly reduce the problem of drug users going to more doctors to access A and B medicines. I can therefore immediately conclude that the county doctor does not believe that the fixed medical system has made it easier for addicts to obtain A- and B- preparations. The problem of so-called play shopping, i.e. drug users go from doctor to doctor to prescribe addictive drugs – A and B medicines – have existed for many years. An important step towards reducing the possibility of such medical shopping is the introduction of the fixed medical system. Almost all residents have a fixed doctor who is responsible for responding to their needs in relation to general medical care. Especially in relation to the printing of A and B medicinal products, it is important to have information about the patient’s medical history. Therefore, in line with good medical practice, the resident should be informed to address his or her permanent physician if necessary. According to note section 7 of the regulation on the fixed medical device, the doctor is responsible for the person’s record and for updating the medical history and use of medicinal products. If a doctor prints medications to patients other than his/her fixed patients, the doctor should ensure that the prescriber is notified afterwards. The physician should therefore have strong professional reasons for printing A or B medicinal products in cases where patients do not wish to identify their permanent physician. As a supervisory body, health supervision and county doctors have a significant focus on prescribing addictive drugs. In the context of contributing to sound recruitment practices, the Health Inspectorate published in 2001 a guide on the recruitment of addictive drugs by doctors. Health authorities are concerned that the requisition of such drugs should be followed up with a view to avoiding abuse. Feedback to the decision maker may be simplified if it is able to obtain the name and address of the settler through access to information in the registry. It can provide feedback in cases where the patient does not remember who the doctor is. As is the case today, the social security fund has direct access to the permanent register. Information on who is the resident’s permanent staff can be obtained by telephone with the permanent office in the county. The social security system may provide information on who is the resident’s permanent resident, to AMK centres, medical guards and hospitals in situations where the resident himself is unable to provide the name of the permanent resident or to consent to the information being obtained because of the loss of consciousness or confusion of any kind. With regard to access to the fixed medical records, I can inform you that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Swedish National Agency, is working to find good technical solutions for the electronic transmission of data from the register. I will ensure that the question of who should be given access to information in the permanent register in this context will be reconsidered. The Ministry will then take the view of the county doctor in Akershus in such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1185	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One of the intentions of setting up the permanent medical scheme was to reduce the alleged toy shopping that was in the market. However, I am very much in doubt whether it was as extensive as you would at the time. Here again we have an example of the fact that the fixed medical system has not responded to expectations, although this case is not the most serious defect in the fixed medical system. My question again to the Minister of Health will then be: What is the reason why county doctors do not have access to the regular lists, and will the Minister of Health change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1194	The basis for access to the information contained in the fixed medical records is that they are reasonably needed in their service to care for the patient’s interests. That is what is the basis for AMK centres, medical services and hospitals in situations I described in my first answer, being given such an opportunity to get this information. However, I would like to assess, in the context of our current assessment and work, together with the Rikstrygdeverket, on technical solutions for the electronic transmission of data from the permanent registry, whether such access is a legitimate need for the county doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1201	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I find it strange that the supervisory authorities should not have this possibility. The county doctor in Akershus and the health director suggest to prevent abuse that patients must inform the consultant who is his or her regularity. Will the Minister for Health ensure that there is a change in current legislation so that this system can be implemented fairly quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1210	Let me say, in relation to Mr Alvheim's remarks, that I believe that the fixed medical system has actually responded to expectations in many areas. No later than today, we have one thing in the news that shows that we have had a much better medical coverage after the introduction of the fixed medical system. With regard to the specific issue, I will ensure that it is assessed in the context of the review we now have, together with the Rikstrygdeverket, with regard to the practical access to the permanent register. And then the regulatory issue will also be re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1220	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Health West presented on 9 December this year its proposal for new emergency functions in the health region. The emergency services at the hospitals at Stord, Voss, Nordfjord and Lærdal are being closed. It is also proposed to shut down the maternity wards of local hospitals. The proposal involves the closure of the hospital in Odda. The plans give rise to strong reactions in local settings. Are emergency preparedness and local hospital closures in line with the Government’s health policy priorities, and what do the Council of State think of the proposed measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1229	The Health West Board started work on a strategic plan in the spring of 2002. It has been made possible to best meet the intentions and objectives of the hospital reform, which included, among other things: implementation of a project on functional distribution, on the division of labour, between hospitals. This is also in line with the Stortinget treatment of St.prp. No 59 for 2001–02, on the hospital economy, from this spring, requiring regional health establishments to implement significant measures of conversion and efficiency in order to improve the impact of the use of healthcare resources. The background to the functional distribution project is that Health Vest will assess whether better organisation of today’s services can provide patients with a more equivalent range of services, both in terms of quality, availability and economy. On 9 December this year, Health West published an interim report proposing the possible future organisation of emergency services in the region. This interim report shall be part of the overall assessment of the functional distribution project. I have been informed that the proposals in the emergency project will be examined in the first instance in the new year by the functional division working group and the strategy process management group. Thereafter, the report of the project will be submitted to the local health establishments for treatment before being dealt with by the Health West Board in the month-end of February/March 2003. In other words, no consideration has been given to any of the proposals in the report submitted. In order to ensure good participation until decision-making, a broad discussion process has been set up, with the possibility of input from different target groups before final management. For example, it is added. up to a formal consultation round including regional and local authorities, in addition to user committees and the business organisation. I do not think it is appropriate to go into a specific discussion about the measures in question here and now. However, I would like to stress that there are no proposals for total closure after the removal of the specialist health services mentioned in relation to the local hospitals in question, as the presentation of the question may give the impression. I believe that it is the scheme for the further process to which the Health West submits, in a good way, seeks to safeguard the Storting's intentions of transparency and participation. A final decision by the regional board is far from being reached. That is why I do not think it appropriate to comment on individual measures. But I can assure the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken that, for my part, I will have a special vigilance in relation to proposals that can be said to break with adopted health policy here in the Chamber, and I will not hesitate to take advantage of my opportunity to raise decisions to the business meeting, if these are matters of importance, and on matters that I doubt will be in line with the adopted health policy of Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1240	I thank you for your answer. I think, unfortunately, it is not suitable to reassure all those who are now concerned that they will lose their emergency response in their neighbourhoods. I would like to show that Odda Municipality has said that they are very concerned about the plans that have been put forward. Health Fonna has launched an alternative savings plan that will protect emergency preparedness at Stord. There's a strong local commitment around these issues. I therefore think it is right — on a purely general basis — to call for a clearer response from the Minister of Health to the policy objectives of this. Is the centralisation of emergency preparedness in the West in line with the Government's political objectives? Or does the Minister of Health agree with us that it must be an objective that there should be a good emergency response also at the local and smaller hospitals in the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1249	It is national health policy to ensure that there is a high-quality and reasonably close emergency preparedness throughout the country, including within the area of responsibility of the West Health. Clearly, it would be a matter of national importance if the Health West were to take seriously the issue of laying down individual hospitals within its area of competence. Then I will use the authority that the Health Business Act gives me to lift decision-making responsibility to a national and political level. However, when the process is in an investigation phase, I ask for respect for the fact that the responsible bodies must be allowed to carry out an investigation into efficiency measures – as the Stortinget has foreseen – without the Minister of Health pointing out in advance that he likes that action, which he does not like. It would be contrary to the intentions of the reform, as adopted by a majority in this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1258	I thank you again for the answer. I wish I could clear up the signals, but I am pleased that we still get a clear signal that the Minister of Health will follow this closely. I refer to the fact that the Minister for Health has been quoted in the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 December on the following: ‘It would be natural for me, as a hospital owner, to enter into dialogue with Health West on the reorganisation of emergency functions.’ I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he can promise – I understand – that the type of degradation proposed here will not be adopted without it first coming to the Minister of Health's table. I would also like to ask how the Minister of Health will take the initiative in the dialogue he mentioned in the interview with the Official Journal of Bergen, and how he will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1270	I would like to ask you at a suitable time to be informed about the plans that exist, once they have moved further into an investigation phase. I would like, together with Health West, to assess whether such plans or proposals are in place which suggest that the decision should be raised to the business meeting, which is the Minister for Health. I will do so in close contact and in dialogue with the Health West, as I have notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1279	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘National Agenda 21 is the concrete Norwegian follow-up to the Johannesburg meeting. The Prime Minister also said that the International Financial Institutions must also be more closely involved in the follow-up to the International Environment Summit. How does the Council of State see this going, and what initiative will be taken from the Norwegian side to get this process going?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1288	Norway attaches great importance to the involvement of multilateral financial institutions in international processes, such as the follow-up to the Johannesburg meeting. It is because these institutions have considerable financial resources and great political significance. We are actively working to make institutions' activities more sustainable, not least in order to emphasise the relationship between environment, social development and poverty. The message from Johannesburg was just to see the environment, poverty and economic development in the context. Norway has provided funds for a World Bank fund for sustainable development and poverty established in 1999 and it has this very objective. It has contributed to addressing the challenges in these areas of the World Bank, which has led to a significantly better integration of these issues into the Bank's work. The Fund shall have, inter alia: funded World Bank work on «World Development Report 2003: Sustainable Development in a Dynamic World». This report, which was received very well — including by many NGOs in Johannesburg — underlines the importance of different national and subnational institutions for sustainable development, which is very positive. Following the Johannesburg meeting, the World Bank has set up its own working group which now assesses how the institution will follow up the meeting. Norway has close contact and dialogue with the Bank on this process and is monitoring funding through this Sustainable Development and Poverty Fund. For Norway, it is important to involve all relevant actors in key multilateral processes. The international financial institutions are among the heaviest, and we will therefore continue to work actively to draw them more closely into the follow-up. In the context of the preparations for the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development in March 2002, we worked on the Norwegian side to draw with the G-24 Group, which includes representatives of the medium- and low-income countries of the Bretton Wood institutions, i.e. the development team. This was done not least because it is important to establish a better dialogue between this u-country group and the G-77 u-country group in the United Nations. Strengthening dialogue between them could also contribute to better integration of Bretton Wood institutions into UN processes in general, and in the follow-up to the Johannesburg Conference in particular. The Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey demonstrated the importance of active and constructive cooperation between the UN and the financial institutions, a cooperation that also reaches the country level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1299	I thank you for your answer. If we look back a little bit to Local Agenda 21, which is still going on, the National Agenda 21 is his follow-up. What characterizes Local Agenda 21 was that everyone was for him and a lot of people were messing with it, but few knew what it was really about. Local Agenda 21 was primarily a challenge for all world communities to engage in dialogue with local people, whether they were municipalities, county councils or some other political body. That dialogue with the local population was important. I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether she can imagine that the IMF and the World Bank can enter into such a dialogue. How does the Minister for Development think that this could happen, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1308	To this end, with a local dialogue with the population: in the context of what has happened with the so-called PRSPs, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, known to the representative Jacobsen, it has been important for the Bank and the IMF to really challenge the countries to be in a dialogue with popular organisations, movements and representatives of civil society, locally and nationally. In some countries, consultative processes have been carried out around the country with organisations. In other countries, such a dialogue has taken place more centrally. It is not unnatural when we are now also working to ensure that these so-called PRSPs also contain a sustainability perspective, i.e. to take into account what is called sustainable development or sustainable development, in new designs of the PRSPs, that sustainable development can also be discussed with civil society and the population in line with these procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1315	I thank you for your answer. Now the council knows that I'm not so happy with these abbreviations -- these letters -- and all these nice words. What we're after is, of course, will and result. And the Johannesburg action plan encourages Member States to establish and deploy the necessary agreements and instruments to ensure their corporate social responsibility in the countries they operate. What will the Government do to establish such a framework and further ensure the necessary monitoring of the social responsibility of Norwegian and multinational companies as an extension of State responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1324	Just very briefly: in addition to what I now had, which is more of a framework where the countries themselves govern the consultations, I would mention that the Bank is working in particular on the follow-up to the Johannesburg meeting in areas such as water, energy and agriculture. The board has just approved Reaching the Real Poor, a strategy for how to reach the poorest, which is the agricultural strategy of the bank. So something more than just new abbreviations and concepts will happen. Something's going to happen out there where people live. So to the business question. This is in particular a matter which concerns the companies themselves, where the bank is not strongly involved. But I would like to mention that the bank now has, through discussions with a number of countries, a process in which one wants to contribute to the publication of incomes from the extractive industries, from private enterprises, so that we can get to know what kind of real income countries have in relation to such an industry. It's about oil and gas and minerals, and here the bank has a very active role. In my opinion, this falls well into social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1334	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Oil and Energy: «NRK Uppland brought the news on 10 December this year that municipalities and cabin developers are not allowed to impose requirements on the energy consumption of new cabins. State forest wants to install an environmentally friendly cabin field at Lake Lemon in Wågå where the cabin owners would not be able to install more than 10 kilowatts of electrical power. Weighing the municipality gave a clear signal, but it turns out that the Planning and Building Act does not allow energy requirements in the regulations. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the law to allow this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1343	The question concerns the scope of Section 26 of the Planning and Building Act on Regulatory Provisions. It is the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible for the planning provisions of this law. The legislative provision states that the regulatory plan may, to the extent necessary, provide for the design and use of areas and buildings in the regulatory area. Such provisions may impose conditions of use or prohibit uses to promote or safeguard the purpose of regulation. I cannot give any more detailed answer to this matter except that I am aware that the Ministry of the Environment has assessed the question at the request of a municipality in its circular T-1395 Planjuss 1/2002. In a letter dated 31 January 2001, a municipality asked the Minister for the Protection of the Environment to assess, through law, regulations and guidelines, the potential of municipalities to limit the use of power and energy in recreational property. The Ministry of the Environment replied that no provisions could be laid down limiting the consumption or consumption of energy for the construction works covered by the regulatory plan under the Planning and Building Act § 26. I am aware that the area of the cabin in question is to be expanded into a public opinion, and that Statskog has the administrative responsibility. It is Statskog who has promoted a private proposal for a regulatory plan. Weighing the municipality has stated that the municipality is behind the wish to limit power or energy consumption, but not necessarily with an indication of a particular power. Since the Planning and Building Act does not allow such requirements to be established, State Forest and Wågån Municipality have adopted guidelines for the regulatory plan on, inter alia, such restrictions. The guidelines are not binding, but are a kind of intention for concrete fastening agreements to be concluded between State Forest and the individual owner of the cabin. I find it hard to understand that someone could prevent Statskog from imposing such restrictions as a clear clause in any party contract if they wanted it. It is therefore fully possible to find solutions on a private-law basis. With regard to the use of the Planning and Building Act and its regulations in relation to the management of energy solutions and energy use, I refer to the work being done by the Ministry of the Environment through the Plan Law Committee and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, through the work on the building regulations and building regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1358	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am also aware that the Planning and Building Act does not allow municipalities to decide. The same applies, as far as I know, the Energy Act. The municipalities can point out, but they can't decide. In the wake, this went well, because there was one developer, State Forest, who is great and powerful. It was easy to enter into dialogue with Statskog, and a private-law agreement was established. It's okay in this case, but I would like the Council of State and perhaps both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment to look at this and get the local authorities to decide on the planning and building law. This is actually an urgent matter. According to the Planning and Building Act, municipalities can come up with other things. They can enter certain conditions for aesthetic requirements, planting requirements, for example, and I would therefore also believe that they should be able to enter this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1367	I again point out that the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the planning provisions of the Planning and Building Act. But I also show that there is work in the Ministry of the Environment through the Planlov Committee on different building regulations and regulations. I am sure that this issue will also be up-to-date. I agree with the representative, Mr Enger, that it is positive that sensible measures are being put in place to limit power and energy use, not least in relation to this holiday home. And if a provision of the Planning and Building Act is necessary to produce such good solutions, it will probably be considered. But as I said, it is actually possible to solve today as regards private-law measures, for example. in the case of necessary clauses in the fastening contracts. There is one way to go until one is given an assessment of possible alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1374	I thank you for your answer. I understand that we largely agree here, and that it is the Planning and Building Act that initially is the law that can change this. I would like the Plan Law Committee to look at this side of it as well, because it is important for the municipalities to have the opportunity to rule here. For example, if there is a nearby heat producer, a building block may be set on common heat supply with bioenergy. It is not so easy to reach such agreements with individual developers. Therefore, it would have been nice if the municipalities had the opportunity to establish guidelines in this area. Finally, I would like to mention an example from Hemsedal. A new recreational community of 200 000 km2 is planned and the local e-work is concerned if it is to be available for power use. I guess that's something for the Minister of Energy to bring with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1383	I am in favour of what is the intention behind the representative Enger's question. I promise that the Plan Law Committee will be sent both the representative's questions and the exchange of views that we have had on this in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1391	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The oil working areas are important prerequisites for a diverse labour market in many local communities in District Norway. It has been claimed in the media that many of the oil companies' land bases should be reduced despite the fact that these bases were prerequisites for the companies to conduct exploration and extraction. In particular, the bases in North Norway are exposed. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the government's assumptions about the land-based structure are complied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1400	The established objectives of the localisation policy of the authorities have been the management of the activities from a holistic and long-term perspective, while the expansion of the oil industry will have a positive impact on the surrounding areas of the mainland. A number of bases are established along the whole coast. The aim must be to maintain or increase the level of activity so that viable environments can be secured during long-term operation. At some bases, maintaining the level of activity and employment has for some time been a challenge, and one must recognise that increased activity at the bases of North Norway will have to come from increased exploration activities and new developments in neighbouring areas. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is working on an investigation into the consequences of all-year petroleum activity in the northern sea areas of Lofoten and northwards. The investigation is expected to be forwarded to the Government during the autumn of 2003 and will be used as a basis for further policy consideration of the issue of the conditions and conditions for all-year petroleum activities in the area. The conclusions drawn in the light of this investigation will therefore provide important guidance for the future level of activity of existing bases. However, in the case of Hammerfest, the development of Snow White will ensure the establishment of a sustainable base environment in Finnmark. Active allocation policies have been pursued by the authorities over the past few years, with subsequent exploration. Unfortunately, apart from the Worm Lange, there has not been any recent findings that defend independent development with its base structure. For the Worm Lange, one has not yet concluded on the development solution, and it will be up to the Stortinget to take the final decision. The government is concerned with the question of the base structure, so that the petroleum activity will continue to have positive ring-effects for the surrounding continental regions. We also need to recognise that, in order to ensure long-term operation and strengthening of viable environments at the bases, it is entirely dependent on a good resource base. The issue of location of bases will continue to be subject to political treatment in the future where the Storting will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1413	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's not reassuring. There has been some unrest around the base in Brønnøysund, around the base in Lake Sandness and around the base in Harstad, and they do not know today whether or not it will continue to operate. The Council of State has not been able to confirm today in Stortinget that the bases will continue to exist. We know from experience that more and more of the oil and gas are being diverted south into pipes. Is it supposed to be piped up along the whole coast, and the bases in North Norway to be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1420	To the last question, the answer is absolutely no. There must be quite a lot of oil and gas to which, in this case, gas applies in the case of pipes, in order to be able to respond with long transport lines along the coast. As you know, the Snow White field is expanded using an LNG solution. As regards the bases in the Nordic countries, to which the Bastisen refers, the Ministry has no intention of reducing the activity. On the contrary, I attach great importance to the fact that it can be maintained. But as I said in my answer, the activity at the bases is a function of how successful drilling and exploration is in the Norwegian Sea, and it is therefore essential that we get new findings, so that the activity can be kept up, and that we possibly succeed with new operating bases in North Norway. It will be of great use and joy to North Norway. They also have expectations of that, and that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1427	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am fully aware that long transport is difficult, but that is not impossible. I have, for personal reasons, tried to participate in a realistic oil protection exercise outside the Norne field. I am fully aware that the development of new fields must be based on decisions in the department and in the Stortinget. The activity of the bases must be based on the fact that there will be activity in the sea and new oil wells. We can't stand that here in Stortinget and assume, but I hope the Council of State can confirm to those who are waiting for such a Christmas present that there will still be activity at the bases that the Stortinget has said it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1436	As I said, from my point of view, I have no intention of wanting to restrict the bases on a political basis. It is a wish of the Ministry of Oil and Energy that both the two bases existing in the Nordic countries already, in the Sandness Lake and in Brønnøysund, can exist with good activity, but that further activities on land can also be facilitated by new findings. What creates the uncertainty is an illustration of the uncertainty of the petroleum activity. Unfortunately, in the centuries of this technology, we have not come so far that we can find with sufficient certainty the oil reserves that are still available on a Norwegian base, but as a need for advanced seismics and highly developed competences in order to assess correctly. Yet we have disappointments. There is no doubt that the last few rounds have been so far a disappointment, and today the activity picture is also striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1444	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘There are a number of computer games on the market. Some of these contain very gross violence. They are so grotesque that some shops refuse to sell them. For children and young people, such games will work extra strongly, and research shows that such impressions can lead to both mental and negative behaviour. What is the stance of the Council of State on such TV games, and will the Council of State take the initiative to ban the most violent TV games/films offered in the Norwegian market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1453	I am very concerned and upset about what children and young people get from violent electronic games today. It has been demonstrated that some retailers do not take into account age marking. Children down to the age of ten get to buy the most serious games without problems. Games with content contrary to criminal law are affected and can be stopped, regardless of a system of age and content labelling and the regulation of forms of turnover. The computer game industry also shows accountability when it introduces from 2003 a self-regulatory system for age marking computer games. The system is common to Europe. It will be very important to follow how the scheme will operate in relation to age limits and classification of content. Producers and importers have significant interests linked to a pan-European scheme. The benefits relate to their being able to relate to a single set of standards and thus to the specific rules of individual nations in this area. They thus achieve a rationalisation gain that they can reap in the form of simultaneous launch in all countries, and consistent marketing. The industry seems to have such a great deal of self-interest in the scheme that I would think they are doing a lot of good practice. However, I will follow closely the way the system works. If the scheme is not for the benefit of children and young people, I will consider introducing self-regulation in Norway. But the weakest link in the chain can be the individual dealer. We have seen that some dealers sell anything to children. This gives little hope that they will be loyal to a branch scheme. I would therefore like to consider introducing a concession scheme for the sale of electronic games. The concession scheme should be based on the same reading as the videogram concession scheme. In practice, if there is a breach of the law or regulation relating to such a law, it may be possible to impose sanctions. Possible penalties may, for example: be to withdraw the right – simply not to sell these computer games.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1462	I thank you for your answer. I just want to follow up with a few things. I experience what the Council of State says about permissions, as an interesting proposal, that you actually get stricter regulation and a much stricter control by getting a licensing system. I am very pleased that this is a matter that the Council of State has in mind if it does not resolve in other ways. But at the same time, I have to be allowed to say that I have actually wanted a ban line to be evaluated. I don't think it's appropriate in this room to tell you a little about the content of such games/films – I've taken the pressure to look at them – it's so grotesque that you can ask yourself what we're going to do in the market at all. What are we going to do with anything like that? We know that we are under ban, for example. child pornography, and that makes us put some moral ties on ourselves. Although some people also abuse it, and get it across the web and in other ways, we know that it is wrong. So the question to the Council of State is, can there be a ban going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1473	First, I want to say that I am going to work on concession and control regardless of what the market is doing. I think it's important. The second is that I actually agree that many of these games are not suitable for sale at all. That is also why some of these games, especially one of them, ‘Grand Theft Auto 3’, have been reported to the police by the Children’s Ombudsman and the Consumer Council. This is now the case with the Riksadvokat. The Advocate General has not yet taken a decision on further progress in the matter. What I want is for this to be tried against the penal code. What I would hope for was that the provisions of the penal code would intervene and say that this is actually illegal, because it is so gross. I hope that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1478	I am very pleased with the response of the Council of State. I see that we have a government council that is really concerned with this problem. I'll settle down and I'll end up here. I just want to wish the Council a really good Christmas, and then I hope it will be a good new year for work for children and young people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1483	A really good Christmas to the representative, and thank you for a very good question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1499	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1506	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘There is an increasing focus on safety and preparedness in the case of marine oil/gas cargo. The Coastal Directorate will reduce the number of Fedje traffic centres by one person and will move the unloading station to White Island in Rogaland for economic reasons. From Fedje traffic centre, 2 500 giant tankers are conducted annually with crude oil to and from Mongstad and Sture. How can the Council of States ensure that environmental and safety considerations are respected before the decision is taken?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1515	I would first like to stress that I am of course concerned with maintaining a sound safety and preparedness along the Norwegian coast. Not least, it is important that our traffic centres and unloading services function properly. Traffic management is carried out at the traffic centres, financed by the safety fee for the relevant traffic centre, and pilotage, financed by the pilot charges. In the revised national budget for this year, the Government announced that we would assess the centralisation of the pilot service. As part of improving the efficiency and cost reduction of the unloading service, for which the Coastal Agency is closely involved, it aims to concentrate and carry out the unloading from three locations early in 2003: Lødningen, Witsøy and Horten. In practice, this means that the pilot project, which is currently being carried out by Kristiansund and Fedje, is to be transferred to Wittsøy and that the pilot project in Kristiansand and Grenland is to be transferred to Horten. As a result, work related to the unloading of goods at the traffic centres in Fedje and in Grenland is transferred to other places. In North Norway, we have experience that the pilotage is currently being carried out by Lødingen, who is responsible for the pilotage of the fourth and fifth districts of the Coastal Agency, i.e. Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. This works very well and shows that the technology allows the pilots not necessarily to be located to the place where the unloading is to take place. I would therefore like to stress that it is the bulk distribution and not the actual unloading station that is to be moved from Fedje to Wissøy, i.e. that the pilots will continue to be stationed on Fedje, while the deployment of pilot operations will be managed from Witsøy. In addition, I believe that the conversion of the unloading services should not lead to a reduced level of safety at the traffic centres. Traffic monitoring is carried out by the staff of the traffic centres. These are open 24 hours a day and at least one traffic controller is present. This will not be changed. At the traffic centres where the pilotage agency is now being moved to another unit, the Coast Guard Station will ensure staff so that there are always at least two persons present at the traffic centres. Until other sound solutions to the management of traffic are found, it would not be appropriate to reduce the manning of the traffic control centres. Thus, the conversion of the unloading services shall not lead to a reduction in the safety of any of the traffic centres. In this way, my answer to the questioner's question is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1532	I have to thank the Minister for the answer. I think it is positive that the crew on the traffic centre should not be reduced. I'm the busiest person in the city. Loose services may be provided in various ways and the loosing service is of course important. I don't know if the state councils have been on the traffic hub of Fedje, but at least he should take a trip to see what kind of situation you have on the coast with all these big tanks going into Sture and Mongstad. It is greedily important that there is enough staffing – it is difficult to say when it is, but it is important that there is more than one person on guard. In this way, I am satisfied with the answer from the Council of State that it is not a person to monitor Norway's largest port, but that there are two.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1545	I can assure you that the three traffic centres that we operate today, Horten, Brevik and Fedje, and the fourth that will become operational from 1 January, White Island, will have a crew to take care of the safety concerns of both the representative and the Council of State. In addition, we consider a fifth traffic hub in North Norway. These tasks consist of contributing, as also described by the representative, to safe and efficient maritime traffic and to the protection of the marine environment. For that, both qualitatively and numerically, we need a crew that we're clearly going to take care of. It is not appropriate to make changes unless, through technological developments, safety could be ensured in the same manner as it is today, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1550	Yes, that's the security, the security of those who travel by sea, and the security of those who live by land. When these big tankers go in between the rocks, we're all small. And almost accidents have been, but I don't need to ask the two questions further out. We're both concerned with security, and I feel that he's drawn in line with what the council says. It is time to wish each other a good Christmas, and then of course I will also love the Council of State Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1557	I then find that we have a common interest in keeping safety and preparedness high at all traffic centres, including Fedje, and that it will be taken care of in the future, also with the change we are making in the communication. Then I want the deposit representative, and I also include those at Fedje, a good Christmas and a safe Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1568	I would like to ask the following questions to our social minister: ‘Tvedestrand is the only town in East Agder without its own wine monopoly. The monopoly of wine is obliged to ensure market access and fair access through its retail network throughout the country. The President of the Board of Governors of Tvedestrand wants to sell pole-and-line to the city and threatens to bring the case before the EFTA Court of Justice in Brussels. Will the Government ensure that Tvedesstrand receives wine monopoly sales, or risk a case before the EFTA Court, which may overturn the whole scheme of this old-fashioned Norwegian wine monopoly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1577	The question of whether there are grounds for applying for authorisation in Tvedestrand is decided by the Board of Governors of the Vinmonopolet on the basis of an assessment of the relationship between economic criteria and the desire for increased availability. However, I understand that many municipalities may wish for a wine monopoly shop, and that there may be regional and economic reasons for this desire. However, the situation is that about 90 pst. the population of our long-range country in a short time will be less than 20 kilometers from the nearest sale. In addition, a remote-trade solution is in place which makes it easy for customers to order and have the goods sent to or delivered to them if the distance is a problem. Remote trade means that goods can be ordered by telephone, letter or net, so-called e-commerce, and delivered through the post. I do not see any reason to go into a discussion with the representative Torbjørn Andersen about the wine monopoly scheme, but it shows that earlier this year the Stortinget rejected proposals for the sale of wine and starch in grocery stores.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1584	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I realized there was no big and good Christmas Presong to Tvedestrand. There were no concrete promises here, as I perceived it. However, when Norway continues to doubt this old alcohol trading system, sufficient availability must be ensured by geographically equitable distribution of outlets throughout the country. And until today, Tvedestrand has been one of the very few cities in the country where it has not been possible to buy as much as a bottle of wine on the pole, for it has simply not been sold there. And so there's miles to the nearest neighboring town that has such outlets. The availability is therefore very poor. Why does the Council of State not propose to Stortinget that more outlets be authorised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1593	It is not the Minister of Social Affairs who decides where to lay the pole. That's what the Vinmonopole and its government do. Next year, too, there will be new pole sales. It's been a massive expansion in recent years, so large that 90 pst. the population is less than 20 kilometres from a wine monopoly. It's not provided that we're going to have an expansion at the same rate as it has been, but next year, as I said, it's going to be new establishments. In addition, we also need to follow up on what the Storting has decided, namely trials on minipols, which have a limited range of products. When the representative says that we have an old-fashioned wine monopoly system, I must say that I do not share the concerns and judgement of Torbjørn Andersen in relation to it. I feel that the monopoly of wine is strong in the population, and that it also has to do with the modernisation that has taken place in relation to a greater degree of self-service, and the ability to obtain the goods of the pole in a way other than by meeting itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1600	I thank the Council once again for the answer. Well, this matter is settled, but I would like to remember that the European Commission is currently pushing Sweden very hard to wind up the Systembolaget. And, according to Norwegian EU experts, if the Swedes have to comply with the EU’s requirement – and this suggests that this will happen – this will also break the Norwegian wine monopoly. This could mean that people in Tvedesstrand or other cities will soon be able to buy legal alcoholic beverages in the grocery stores, as most people in all other European countries can. Does the Council of State really believe that Norway will continue to be able to maintain the Vinmonopolet if the Systembolaget in Sweden — probably — is phased out quite soon, following pressure from the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1607	I'm recording that the Vinmonopolet is strong in the Norwegian community. It has to do with the modernisation that's happened, and we've had an expansion that's been huge in recent years. The implementation of that plan is immediate and will also be established next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1620	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘I have been made aware that in West Agder there is an assessment to centralise the MC tests from all over the county to Kristiansand. Today there is a good offer in Flekkefjord. The distance to Kristiansand will give a travel time for some two to three hours each way. This will significantly weaken the offer for those who are currently required to take a driving licence. Is it the case that the efficiency gain of the State Road Service is to be acquired through reorganisation to result in a centralisation of the service provision?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1629	The transformation of the state road transport system is now being undertaken with a number of important considerations. Among other things, underline: efficacy, i.e. that less money is to be spent on administration and thus that more money can be spent on the road to road and traffic decentralisation through the delegation of tasks from the Directorate of Road and from the Regional Road Offices to the new regional road offices to the public, municipalities and other partners should be further developed and strengthened; Through the establishment of the Vegvesen new management organisation, the emphasis on these considerations will need to be balanced. It will be essential for the Road Administration to have a quality of its services ensuring that the public and society are properly and properly provided with these services. This means that for some services it will be necessary to pool competences in larger environments, while other tasks can exploit the overall competence of the Road Service through the active use of electronic aids, remote working systems, etc. In the field of traffic, there is a strong commitment to increasing the availability and quality of the resource-intensive services, including: by providing various Internet services. According to the driving licence regulations, the individual road office determines where the test is taken. The assessment shall focus on the possibility of carrying out good driving tests, availability to the public and costs. With regard to the specific case raised by the representative of Klungland, it is important to stress that in 2002 the Road Office of West Agder carried out an assessment of the MC tests in the county. The Road Agency’s assessments and any proposals for amendments will be sent to a local consultation in January 2003. The road office will make its decision after the hearing, and out of respect for the local process, I do not think it is right for me to comment on the matter now, except to stress that it does so per. no proposed, much less adopted, closure of the offer of MC test in Flekkefjord has been proposed at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1650	It really wasn't an answer to what I asked for, but I thank you for the answer, of course. What I asked about was whether the service and service services that are currently in the west of the county should be changed, and whether it is the government's policy in the reorganisation that is taking place. This will affect both workers and school students and finally driving training west of the county. They'll have to use one day to leave and take a driver's license. Driver training is also likely to be moved from the west of the county. That's why my question about what's going on is the government's policy, that it should be centralised into larger cities from smaller cities and districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1657	I would strongly argue that what we have been through in the process of the State Road Service has just shown that this government is concerned about using the whole country. We have organized the Vegvesen now from 1 January 2003 in a reasonably radically changed way compared to the past. We have also stressed the importance of closeness to users, be they municipalities or other users. The service and service provision must be good. It's also important that we have a good competence in the area we're talking about, especially with regard to driver training and the responsibility of issuing driving licences to MC. There are too many accidents in the transport sector in general, and this summer we have unfortunately also seen them on the MC side. Therefore, competence is a very important element here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1664	In terms of proximity, we've seen that in the region that's now under discussion, the number of government jobs has well been halved. There has been a centralisation from this region, but that is not what justifies my question. My question is justified on the basis of the service offer and also on the basis of driving training. If you look at the accidents, for example: in West Agder, they don't happen in urban traffic in Kristiansand. The serious accidents occur on the highway. So here, the municipality and the federation in Flekkefjord have been willing to facilitate the training of driving licences in Flekkefjord. My question is whether it can't be moved there either, if it is that there can't be an uplift for a motorcycle licence two places in the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1671	Now, as I said, there's a process going on in relation to this question, so I can't comment on exactly the concrete location debate. It's going to have to go its way now. In the case of state jobs, I would also like to remind you that although there is a difference between East-Agder and West-Agder, a regional office for the region was added to East-Agder. So we have left a good contribution in terms of the State Road Service in relation to that part of the country. It is true that the service offer should be good, and I am not least concerned with road safety. I would like to be concerned that the department of ours is making the best possible use of our expertise so that we can get the best possible MC drivers around the country. The evaluations that are now available here, we leave to the State Road Service, so that they can further determine what are the best solutions in terms of both road safety and competence in terms of MC.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1684	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «At Hosle in Bærum, older people experience that during road breakage, the municipality may change their drive-in so that they do not get out, so as to show that the mating of their own drive-in is the responsibility of the individual, when the elderly deal with the matter. Some elderly people who depend on a scooter do not get out of their own homes, even Asker and Bærums Budstikke on 28 November 2002. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the intentions of the Road Traffic Act and good administrative practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1693	I understand that snow edges in an drive-in process create both disadvantages and work for the private owner of the drive-in. But it is the case that the road law states that departure notices are responsible for the maintenance of the departure of the property. This also applies to the clearing of snow after breaking of the adjacent road. The Directorate of Roads has laid down general rules on the construction and maintenance of public road exits. This regulation mainly covers technical provisions relating to the installation of the driving gear. In addition, the duty of dispatcher(s)/user(s) to maintain the drive train itself is laid down. The Ministry of Transport suggests that snow mining of public roads is a matter for the road owners to live with. That's how it's been practiced all over the country. It follows from that provision that this provision also applies to municipal roads, as in this specific case. As I said, I understand that the snow edges in such an entrance create inconveniences and difficulties, but it is also difficult to imagine a practical arrangement where the one who breaks the road will also clear the off-roads gradually. In cases where this creates special problems for some, these conditions need to be resolved in a different way. I will refrain from commenting on this specific matter concerning a municipal road in Bærum. However, I am aware that in special cases some municipalities provide assistance for snow removal through social affairs. Such a system, which has been tested for its needs, has, among other things: We'll carry the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1706	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now the Council of State has not wanted to go into the specific matter. But if she wants to look more at it, I have a suggestion that shows that this is not about the concrete edges of the breakage that comes only from the breaking of the public road. This is about the incubator ending up in a drive-in and mending this drive-in full of snow. And it's not about getting out of a car, but it's about older people who depend on a scooter, and who are not at all able to get out of their own home. I record that the Council of State clearly knows about the possible arrangements made by Bærum Municipality to remedy this. But not being able to get out of his own home, and the need to get to a doctor, has not been enough to get this help, at least not from the municipality of Bærum. Does the council believe that not only break edges are something the individual must accept, but that the individual must also accept that their only way out of the house becomes the end station of the breaker car and so muttered full of dense, ice-cream snow?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1717	It is difficult for me on a principle basis to comment on where the end stations of the incubators are going to be in the different municipalities. I would ask you to understand that. But at the same time, in so far as this is a specific municipal road, I would like to ask you to contact the municipality to see if there are any conditions here that can be adjusted by laying off the snow elsewhere. We break the roads because it's going to create better accessibility for people. That's actually what's meant for us to clear the roads. I see that it may be a problem if all the snow that is broken away is put right in front of the entrance to a home, but I find it difficult for me to relate to it on a principle basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1724	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that if we have laws that are such that we create the kind of problems that this specific individual case points to, it may also indicate that it is necessary to take a fundamental discussion about how the laws and regulations have been designed. But we'd better get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1731	I believe that when we have one single case, one case with this type of problem, we have to try to solve it separately instead of solving it through regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1739	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Council of State has warned that, in the next few years, the municipalities will also have to rely on tight frameworks after 2003. As a result of these objectives, the inhabitants must be prepared for the fact that they can no longer count on basic basic services, e.g.: school, kindergarten or home care, where they live. Will the Council of State take the initiative to reduce the current tasks of municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1748	The government will have a public sector that is user-oriented, service-oriented, efficient and targeted at the different needs and desires of its inhabitants. In this, of course, there is a further development of public core tasks for all citizens of the country, regardless of where they live. Through modernisation and transformation, we are working to free up resources to meet the challenges we will face in the future, including: those resulting from demographic changes. Simplification of laws and regulations and limited use of earmarked grants are important measures to reduce red tape and to facilitate increased action spaces in municipalities, which are responsible for carrying out basic tasks in a good, comprehensive and efficient manner. This is not least a requirement for central politicians, among others. in the various specialist committees here at Stortinget, limit their efforts to govern the municipalities in detail and do not create excessive expectations for the services the municipalities are responsible for providing. In isolation, there can be good arguments for each measure. The problem is that the sum is too large in relation to the fiscal framework responsible. I believe that Norwegian municipalities, despite the tight public framework, will also be able to carry out the basic tasks in a good way in the future. But there is a need for innovation and organisation, and for many a stronger focus on basic services. Nor should it be such that the inability of the smallest municipalities to carry out a satisfactory task must prevent larger municipalities from doing tasks for others, or prevent municipalities from cooperating in order to solve individual tasks. Developing new forms of organisation and cooperation and alternative ways of managing tasks will be necessary to improve public use of resources and ensure that people have access to the basic services where they live. As far as my opinions on the future framework for the municipal sector are concerned, this is not an objective, but an emphasis on the fact that there is no doubt that the labour shortage and the situation of the competitive industries, which was therefore the main reason for the need for a tight budget this year, will also be important considerations in the years to come. I have therefore warned the municipalities not to make short-term solutions in the belief that 2003 is an exceptional year. I believe and hope that both the municipal transfers and the municipal freedom of action will increase in the future, and the government will make proposals to this effect, so that the Stortinge will have the opportunity to decide on simplifications that provide better space for action and greater transfers of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1759	The government participates in a consultation arrangement with KS. As far as I'm concerned, there's a deal about the actual presentation of the situation, that is, the relationship between tasks and means. But there's a problem with the way you're going to follow up. So far, the government has refused to come up with a escalating plan to support greater compliance. The response of the Council of State, I note it also today, is efficiency improvement, aggregation, privatisation and postponing competition. The last time today, there was a NIBR/Aplan report that showed that there was no money to save on a competitive release. This is contrary to the eagerness of the Council of State to falsify the benefits and savings when this is the case. Is she going to reconsider her point of view when it comes to postponing competition and privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1766	I will not reconsider my view of privatisation and outsourcing. There are differences in the economic impact it has given depending on the areas in which the issue of competitive outsourcing has been discussed. There is no doubt that in the care sector, related in particular to nursing homes, there is less to pick up. At the same time, I would like to say that the report that has been published today also rejects all of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's claims earlier that it is getting worse quality, and that that is the only reason that economic savings have been found. Eight municipalities have implemented the competitive outsourcing of nursing homes. Most of those municipalities have also experienced a better financial environment. They have gained more stability because they have an agreement over several years, for which the providers have given a price. So it gives them stability in the way they want to run their economy, which is actually larger than when they have it under their own production. At the same time, it turns out that quality is good!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1773	I share the opinion of the Council of State that when it comes to the report today, there are many interesting aspects to it. But he doesn't rock the fact that it's small, not to say nothing, to save by launching competition and privatization. There are also reports that show the same when it comes to municipal mergers, especially in long-distance municipalities and where people live. Would it not simply be honorable to continue along the line that the Council of State held in its first answer, where it referred to basic services and that one had to focus on them? Would it not be honorable for the Government to say: Now there is so much gap between tasks and means that we are now focusing on certain tasks to be solved by municipalities, and then there are some tasks that are no longer expected to be carried out by municipalities? In addition, the actual situation has, as I understand, been much worse since the budget was presented, because it could be a weighty tax intake of up to NOK 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1782	The basic services in the municipalities are defined by Stortinget in terms of the statutory tasks to be performed by the municipalities. The most important way to limit and strengthen the concentration around basic services is to be restrained from obtaining more areas where more laws are required. Since the 2001 elections, this increase has gone the other way to assigning to the municipalities more tasks that have been prescribed by law or that the Government should impose legal requirements on the municipalities to implement them. We have been detained, among others. in relation to kindergartens, but also in other cases of just assigning more tasks to municipalities, of a stronger effort in some areas currently not defined as basic services by law and regulation, precisely because in that case it will be at the expense of other things. We will come back, as I also said in my reply, with invitations to facilitate the regulatory requirements, invitations to look at better municipal transfers for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1802	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1816	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1823	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘A number of conflicts have arisen between authorities and landowners/local communities in the implementation of protection plans. In the event of a change of ownership, it is assumed that the former owner informs the new owner of any ongoing work on a plan of protection. There are also a number of cases where landowners are not well informed about protection plans in the area. Thus, any buyer may, in good faith, purchase property on which there is evidence of significant encumbrances. What will the Council of State do to help these?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1832	Government regulation shall be disclosed to all relevant properties. The rules for the clearing of things include, among other things,: designed to satisfy the purchaser’s needs for obtaining the necessary knowledge of the property and which may be significant in the case of a transfer. Both the seller and the purchaser can obtain the necessary information about the indebtedness on request of the property right in question. It is unfortunate if a purchaser has not been given the necessary insight into all relevant aspects of the property in advance. Therefore, in any transfer of property, both the seller and the purchaser should ensure that all relevant information is provided. The seller has an obligation to disclose to the purchaser all the factors relevant to the transfer of the property. At the same time, the buyer himself has an obligation, and an interest, to obtain the necessary information about the property before the conclusion of the purchase. It would be particularly important for the purchaser to obtain such information if the buyer’s own plans for the property were to require a significant re-disposal in relation to the existing use. In the case of ongoing protection plan work, for example under the Nature Conservation Act, the initiation of such planning processes shall be notified to interested parties, including landowners. This shall be done by means of a written request from the planning authority to the landowner. In practice, this is said by the county that has been commissioned to address the protection issue. The start of protective plan work is also announced in the local press and in the Norwegian sheet of light, so that everyone is notified. The Ministry has set out detailed guidelines for dealing with matters under the Nature Conservation Act, which is published in a separate circular. Corresponding guidelines apply to matters under the Culture Memory Act. Regardless of whether a purchaser is in doubt as to whether a seller has provided all the relevant information, it would be advisable to contact the municipality concerned, where appropriate the county, where he will receive all the information concerning the ongoing work on the protection plan or the planned regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1843	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Part of the ownership changes that take place often occur within the same family. It is well there is a certain possibility that neither the seller nor the purchaser will carry out the necessary investigations through enquiry into property rights, etc., as the Council of State stated. For many of these real estate sales, there are often older people who may not know exactly how to proceed. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take an initiative to make this easier and more transparent for those who buy and sell properties, than it is today, because it is a major problem for the buyers who are hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1852	Very familiar is this not such a very big problem, but it is clear that we are willing to go through the routines that are in the area, and evaluate these. The point is, if you dispose of a property, you have to go through the encumbrances and the waitresses that attach to the property in the base book. It says about any loans on the property, whether the area is part of a national park, a landscape reserve or a nature reserve. This shall be set out in the base book. In fact, you have to assume that a transfer of property checks the base book, because it tells you about any mortgage receipts on the property. So it would be unwise to buy a property without checking the mortgages. Then you'll be able to get into a bit of an unfortunate situation with respect to the loans that might be on the property.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1857	I thank the Council again for the answer. The last thing I can agree with. However, there are some conflicts, perhaps especially where a little older people and family are involved. In such cases, there is a slightly different relationship between the buyer and the seller than is on the usual market, to put it this way. State protection plans and decisions restrict property rights and the opportunities for commercial activity in the districts. The implementation of several protection plans has recently created a high level of conflict between protection interests and many communities. This was a problem The right was concerned about earlier, by 1999 at the latest. Has the situation around the protection work been less conflicted since then, as the protection process has had a violent explosive development under the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1868	First, I just want to repeat that if a property is already covered by a protection, it appears from the base book together with other encumbrances, and that will then be evident from a transfer of property. For the protection of e.g.: landscape protection areas and national parks, any restrictions on the traditional use of the property will be replaced according to the general legal principles. Most of the time, however, it will be possible to continue the traditional operation of agricultural property, both in landscape protection areas and in the establishment of national parks. In addition, we have set up a legislative committee to assess the compensation aspects of this. If the selected changes are proposed, they will be applied retrospectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1877	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-18.ana.ud519e1887	There is no record.
