ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e82	It's going to be a pretty hectic week. That's the way it was when we got so out of control of the financial situation. This means that the representatives must try to show solidarity with each other, i.e. that when you ask for the word, you should always think that there are people who come and have the floor at the evening meeting. We hope that we can put this up so that we don't have to spend too many days outside the clock. 24, but this depends a lot on the representatives themselves. Then we're going to hope that another year we'll be able to get the financial position in our country so early that we get better budgetary treatment. It is not satisfactory to have these heavy budgets so closely intertwined with such tough debates, but I am sure we will get through this with the necessary cooperation. The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Bjørn Jacobsen and Hans R. Kjästad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e98	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e103	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e108	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e116	The representative of May Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e119	On behalf of Magnar Lund Bergo and myself, I would like to propose a change of age limits for film and videograms and a ban on cinematography for children under the age of 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e125	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e163	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 min, Right 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e174	The government has had an impact on a very tight budget. In the situation we have in Norway, this is necessary to ensure jobs, secure business and keep interest rates down. Nevertheless, we have achieved a very good budget for transport. It's good because the licenses have increased in most important areas, and not least because there's a innovation here that builds a foundation for future bets, for the future effective use of the funds we have, and for increasing the rewards for years to come. To bring it with the permissions first. There are many years of neglect in the road sector, and the need is enormous. That's why we're very happy that over the two years we've had this government, we've managed to get a very strong increase. Last year we increased by 800 million in total. kr on the national roads. This year we're adding to the top of this 200 million. NOK, so that we totaled for these two years, we have an increase of approximately SEK 1.8 billion compared to if we had continued with the level we had in 2001. We're also going to have to add a very much-needed increase in collective funds, 400 million. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We note that in the larger cities, public transport is perhaps the most important concern. In other parts of the country, there is road construction. Last year we got an impact for a big lift in investments to the railway. We are continuing and increasing this also this year. We have also received a positive increase to the Aviation Agency, which is necessary due to the loss of revenue at the time of the decline in air traffic in recent years. When it comes to innovation, when it comes to conversion, I would particularly like to point out a matter that is being put to the final consideration and approval of the Stortinge today. That's the big shift we've made when it's for the State Road Service. I'm not going to get into that matter so carefully, but just notice that the conversion we're doing now is probably going to save us between $1 billion and $1 billion a year in the long run. We make a big effort when it's about ferries. We've been increasing the permits in the ferry sector for the last five years by 60 pst. But we realize that the supply of the highways is too bad, so we'll try to improve it by putting them on offer, which the Storting will agree with. We have also said, and we have implemented, that in the ferry connections where we have deficits and the state has to pay quite a lot of money, it should be possible to use these means to build roads and bridges that can replace the ferries, which will in the long run save the state too much money and at the same time provide road users with a better supply. We've had a positive impact on turning the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. The aviation industry is struggling, as I said, and the greater freedom they get from becoming a limited company will enable them to make better use of the resources that are being consulted. The NSB and the Post have already been converted into a limited liability company in order to provide better services to our residents. We are also in the process of getting a year or two competition on the track by the NSB getting competition when it comes to passenger traffic. Looking at all of this in context, I hope that other people than the government party are impressed with the change and the news we've been able to get. In retrospect, this will be standing as both a pace shift and a ham change in Norwegian traffic for the benefit of the inhabitants. It is, as I said, many years of neglect to repeat in the transport sector. It marks everyone who travels around our country. No government has done more to get started with a creation operation that we're now in the process of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e200	It's going to be line change, limited to three lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e203	I think if we see it in terms of what's promised and what's done, there's a lot of people who can come up with much better numbers than this government. For this there is a lot, much more than what is being held. today. I would like to ask the representative Løvik whether why Right and the government party disagree that we should get the Railway and the freight terminal on Ganddal as a OPS project. Both projects are important to get more people and goods on the path. In fact, there are enough goods for an entire wagon train per. 24 hours from Stavanger to Oslo, but there is no room in Paradise, which is where the freight terminal is now, to handle that goods. And then we put this out indefinitely. We're in arrears with respect to the project, and we don't have time to miss. Why, then, does one oppose giving a clear signal for a OPS project now? The freight terminal must be built first, because it saves us, according to the department, from 100 to 200 million. kr relative to the opposite order. The way to do it saves us in addition to 10-15 pst, according to the Railway Agency. It can't be reasonable to use hundreds of millions that way by building two projects in the wrong order. Why would the government party and the Right postpone and extinguish this? In addition, it will also lead to 40000–60000 trailers more per year. years on the road for one to two years. So one little thing at a time. There are some doubts about the flight and priority on the Gardermoen route. I wonder if the representative, Mr Løvik, can say whether this priority is for sale, i.e. whether he can be sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e212	As I pointed out in my article, this is a long way to go before we can meet the needs of the transport sector. But if we look at the way, we see that we are in the process of making the biggest promise since the cyclical policy in the early 1990s when it comes to investment. We have also chosen to spend a great deal on operations and maintenance, as it is very often found to be where the need is greatest. We have also committed to a strong increase in the railway sector. It's a long way to go until the wishes and goals are met there, but we've been given a strong boost over the last couple of years in that sector as well. So we're on our way, even though both me and the government party should have wanted us to be here much longer. In the case of the Railway and freight terminal at Ganddal, we are neither against the freight terminal nor against OPS financing. What has been discussed in this matter is the question of whether the Storting should commit itself in a particular order, that one should come before the other. What I fear is that if we commit ourselves to this, as the Labour Party mentions, we will risk the important double-track on that path being delayed. The government party will not take the chance. Finally, the flight train and priority. Yes, I know that discussion quite well, and the Council of State will come closer to this later. It is my clear belief that there is no problem in continuing with the priority we have had so far, but, as I said, the Council of State will elaborate on this in its article later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e221	The representative, Løvik, said it was a very good budget for transport. I remember that in the development of the national transport plan, the right was high on the track and I promised that now it would be put on the road, especially on road construction. In the Sem statement, the promise was followed up, 600 million. kr should be added on. Now it turns out, unfortunately, that the national transport plan shows minus NOK 1.2 billion on the way. The Sem declaration has not been followed up at all, and more and more are now of the opinion that the document National Transport Plan, as we drafted, is only a paper decision and mature to go into the trash. Does the representative of the Transport Committee, Mr Løvik, agree that the national transport plan is not being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e228	I do not share the view of the representative Nistad that the national transport plan is mature for the waste. It is a very important plan, both when it comes to seeing the different modes of travel in context, and when it comes to priority and investment. And it may be necessary to remind the representative, Nistad, that this government, which I have mentioned twice before, has been implemented with good help from the Progress Party for a significant increase in road investment. I am fully aware that the Progress Party is proposing more. But when you start to look at how the Progress Party will finance the increase in road investment, there's really reason to stagger. For what is the Progress Party doing? The progress party says they want to change the road system, and that it will save us too much. They're essentially cutting everything on that switch, that's zero-setting it. It's completely impossible to defend. They're gonna cut down 650 million. kr in an agreement we have concluded with the NSB, an agreement that has been concluded to ensure lower prices and good path availability. What if there was a sign on Oslo S that every other flight was cancelled due to the Progress Party? It wouldn't be the same for the representative Nistad. It has to be more efficient in the NSB, but we can't make it more efficient for as much as 650 million. kr. The Progress Party will propose later today to increase the security of major investments in the Railway Agency. At the same time, they cut 600 million. kr in operation, maintenance and safety at the same railway station, and they cut 400 million. kr in investments, while they will have more investment. And finally, in the Coastal Works, they cut down 180 million. kr. 20 pst of the Coastal Works shall be cut off. Now, when pollution is involved, the Coast Guard will take over emergency preparedness along our coast, and they will be responsible for the labelling of rentals. This will cut the Progress Party. We don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e237	The consequence of the majority’s draft budget for the allocation of national road ferries is that ferries will have a reduced framework. The crown amount from the year's budget is continued, but the increase in costs is not compensated. In reality, this means a 5–6 pst framework reduction. Ferry operations are a very central part of the infrastructure along the coast of the population and of industry. The situation in the ferry sector is that we have a very old ferry. In 2010, 121 of 190 ships will be over 30 years old. The need for fleet renewal is high, not least because of increased and reinforced safety requirements. In reality, no money has been allocated to renew the fleet in this budget. In the national transport plan, 15 new ships have been added during the transport planning period. We are well behind the national service targets with regard to route frequency. In a state such as The Nordic region is just enough to cover 20 pst. of the measures, and for very many other coastal counties. It means that the ferries go too rarely, and they have too little capacity. Despite that, there is actually less money for ferry operations next year. My question to the committee leader is: Does this worry Right? And what will the Right do for the coastal population to get a modern and up-to-date ferry operation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e248	Firstly, the speeches of the representative presented by Hansen are incorrect. What is in the budget for this year in relation to the previous budget when it comes to national road haulage is an increase that is roughly equivalent to the rise in prices. It means a continuation of the level we have in 2002. I would also like to remind the representative Hansen that in five years we have had an increase of 60 pst. in the licenses of state road ferries. I share Hansen's concerns about both the ferry equipment being too old, and that the route offer in many places is not good enough. But we may not have been able to get out of the powerful increase in the licenses as much better services as we wanted. It is one of the reasons and perhaps the main reason why we have made proposals – and in principle have been made – that national roadways should be offered. For us in the government party, it's not as important who carries the passengers. The most important thing is that the money – and we're talking about a total of NOK 1.1 billion in this area – is spent in such a way that we get the best possible services out of it. I share the view that Hansen has that we are facing new challenges here. We can solve them with larger promises, and we have, as I said, increased them this year. But the most important thing is that we get a more efficient use of the resources we have. I hope so, and I'm sure that will result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e257	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e261	After a rough weekend on the Norwegian road, I will start by saying that the prevention of accidents must always be in focus. The need and desire to move forward quickly must be given priority and training and control must be given. ‘Hear to fly, deep to fall’ is the name of a saying. There must be a covering sign for the government party now, a party that promised gold and green forests on the transport area, only they got control. Last year they owed us, that it was little they could do when the government of Stoltenberg had already provided a budget. This year they are in debt on the pressure of the economy and the need for a tight budget. That's old news. That pressure was probably bigger last fall when the same promises were repeated in the Sem Declaration. I would have thought that it would now increase the licenses for commercial purposes. It hasn't been. In the Working Party, I put in 200 million. kr extra in our alternative budget. Not all the world, I'm going to admit it, but more than Bondevik II took place last year, and above the outcome of the deal. These funds have been put first and foremost into a business package. Good transport solutions are crucial to enable businesses to establish and operate – and people to live – across the whole country. Traffic is all about roads in the districts. Many places are this, possibly combined with ferries, the only option. Trains are important in much of the district, and particularly important in and between cities and agglomerations. It is important in itself because it is the most environmentally friendly transport, and it is important to get passenger cars and large car trains away from the roads. So, in our alternative budget, we have proposed to grant $10 million. kr for final planning of the Eidanger tunnel, and 65 mill. kr to two crossing tracks to facilitate the improvement of train provision on important sections. The Government Party and the Progress Party have not found any room for a single penny for the railway. It's very disappointing that they don't want to start the freight terminal at Ganddal as soon as possible. Of course, it is nice that they have suggested allowing 20 million. kr for the planning of the Railway. It is only a matter of economics and environmental considerations that the freight terminal should be built first. So if we first build the Jærbanen, according to the answer from the department, as I just said in a line, it will lead to hundreds of millions in extra costs. We in the Labour Party think that these money can be used in a much better way. In addition, if we build the Jærbane first, we get 40-60,000 trailers on the road between Stavanger and Kristiansand, or maybe all the way to Oslo, for one to two years. It is even such that the Council of State has expressed a positive opinion that this should be built as an OPS project. The progress party, which can hardly be said to be a railway-friendly party, has also expressed a positive opinion on the matter. The only thing the majority achieve by agreeing with the Labour Party's proposal today is to postpone the matter. With a decision here today, the Railway Agency can start planning the project immediately, and we can get started quite quickly. Even with this progress, we will be able to keep what we promised in connection with the national transport plan. The majority put this further out in time. I am aware that Sandne's municipality is struggling with the regulation plan for Rv 44. It is an important way, and I am sure that Sandnes sees his responsibility every now and then and then and has made the necessary decisions. But the freight terminal control plan is ready, so why this delay should arise in order to take it in the correct order, I do not understand very well. I'd like to ask the council to comment on this, because I have a problem understanding the foundation. If she is positive, as she has said, why postpone the necessary decisions? The Workers' Party asked the Government to establish a system to stimulate the largest cities to invest more in collective transport. It's a good thing in itself because it's a good environmental policy. In addition, it will make it easier to get on the roads for those who need to be there. We think the government is a little ambitious when it wants to spend a year planning the scheme. We think it must be possible to have a setup ready before summer and then start up. So we go in for 50 million. This is what we are voting for tonight in the budget, that is, within the limits that the majority have given us. But unfortunately, it looks like we're going to be depressed. I want to invite the Government and the Council of State to turn left to get multiples for this scheme. When it comes to roads, we support increased permissions for important projects. Lofast gets $35 million. kr for start-up. I'm glad to be in the Working Party. There is a project that we have still pressed for progress. The Eiksund connection gets 10 million with our support. kr. It let us into our first option, and it's now inside. It's an important connection, not least for business. That's the same thing as Row 5 Förde-Florø. The majority prioritise another project, but we see it as more important for business to complete this project. We also support the openings for Rv 2 in Hedmark and for further work on Bjørndalssletta in Kristiansand. It will prevent the work in Kristiansand from stopping, with the economic and labour consequences of this. Then to some framework-independent proposals. Today is a heavy day for the Jondalen in Hordaland. They were disappointed when the Government did not come back with proposals for the closure of what is called a major state road project. A lot of people asked for it last year, and we don't like it being followed up. I still hope that there will be a transitional arrangement. I have reason to believe that the Progress Party also means it, but because of the budget agreement they cannot say it that way now. We are also not satisfied with the review of toll financing in the budget. We hope that the government will come back with a thorough review, late in connection with the national transport plan. It also wonders us that support for the express buses has been removed without argument, despite the clear plural messages last year. In the Labour Party, we take a positive view of most of the events in this area, but we think that the licensing policy is liberal where buses compete directly with and in parallel with the railways. But here we also seem to be in the minority. Finally, case No. 1 I want to mention that the Labour Party is now part of a multiple that wants to have racial protection as its own post. We see it as very important to have the racial protection visible, and we attach great importance to the fact that the national racial protection group is strong for its own item. Of course, it is more important that racial protection is given priority. It's about security in everyday life, not least for our kids. It can never be seen from a purely dietary point of view, and I have to admit that I am somewhat concerned about the development of thinking more and more about what is being done in the field of transport policy. The Labour Party is pleased that we today adopt a budget that has prioritised racial protection, but there is a lot left. Finally, I would like to take the representatives to Ryfylke, the beginning of Fjord-Noreg in the West. There's a lot of pearls. There's fishing and agriculture. There it is, heavy industry and tourism. I think it's good to stay there for the close to 14,000 people who live there, and there's a lot of vacationers there. The inhabitants are only so heavily dependent on ferries, so depending on the fact that it is not possible for them to come from e.g. Tau and Strandaland to Stavanger without ferries. Rupture is half an island, but when it's about traffic, it acts like an island. With a ferry ride from Tau to Stavanger it takes 40 minutes. A nice turn if you have a good time and if one when you're leaving, but a problem when you're going to work and the ferry doesn't come, is full or there's a holiday strike. Not least, this is a problem for the business community, including: shall be southwards with an increasing volume of farmed fish. For this reason, I am pleased with the Typhoon Package – a package of six different projects in the State of Ryfylke, a package that will bind Ryfylke better together, and that, after all, will make the trip from Tau to Stavanger a maximum of 15 minutes with a continuous opening time in the construction of Ryfylke, and a package that will make it easier to come south on both E39 and eastward on E134. Today we only take a position on the question of tolls. Tolls must finance 70 pst. of the costs. Could then tolls be a good thing, I was asked in the group. Yes, Ryfast is scheduled to be 100 pst. tolls financed. Where people are used to tolls in the form of tickets on the ferries, which go only part of the day, are actually tolls for getting another solution, a good thing. But, as I said, today there is an authorisation to charge tolls on three lines to finance the planning of two of the subprojects in the package, namely Finnfast and Rv 13. Everything else comes back to us. There's a large number of people behind it. The progress game is going to allow all the money. This year they got 150 million. kr extra in the agreement with the government party. There are not many toll projects they can replace with these money, so our option is probably more realistic. Other speakers from the Workers' Party will come back to other matters. We are, as I mentioned in my reply to the representative of Løvik, concerned about the issue of priority for the Flytrain, and that this must be in relation to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e303	The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, had no suggestions to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e306	Thank you, President! I would like to address the suggestions made by the Labour Party on behalf of itself or in conjunction with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e313	The representative of Ausdal Starrfelt then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e318	The representative Ausdal Starrfelt came to the conclusion that the government promised gold and green forests a year ago. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Starrfelt, that I am proud of the budget that is here today, from the Committee on Transport. There's a huge increase, and if Ausdal Starrfelt has gone into and looked at the structural changes that have taken place during this year, she has seen that it's historic. What we see, is that the money we save through conversion and outsourcing, we get back by getting more money. I thought it was a thought-seeker that Ausdal Starrfelt did not mention this great change that has occurred during this year, and I think it has one reason: they are reluctant to accept structural changes. It's supposed to be the way it should be. It surprises me a little when I hear the criticism that comes many times in connection with the changes that are being made. In the 2002 budget, the Government of Stoltenberg proposed to authorise the Government to convert the Railway Agency’s business areas into AS. Then I wonder why it should be so critical of the changes this government is making. The right went into the national transport plan to assess the OPS deployment of the Mosseweg in the tunnel. The working party was opposed. It is therefore positive to see today that the Workers' Party has turned around and now ensures a majority for such an assessment. I would like to ask Ausdal Starrfelt: what has happened that the Workers' Party has turned around?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e331	There were many questions in a short time. I do not disclaim the right of the representative to be proud of a budget. I don't understand. I don't understand how one can be proud that billions are allowed less than one has promised. I don't understand. When it's about the structural changes, we're skeptical about a part of them. When it comes to racial protection, like me, I'm afraid of a development where there's only commerce, that it's just what answers, that's going to be decisive. We believe that the more we liberalise, the greater the risk that social interests will have to give way to pure dietary assessments. So we've kept going on with the latest structural changes. When it comes to Vegvesenet, I think the department has handled the process well after they made a wrong decision. We still believe that the decision was wrong, both because we think it's possible through more community management to have a division model and maintain more state production, and because we think it was a wrong way to do it. When it was decided over the table last year, we would have a division model. But this multiple decided that they wanted an AS, and then we think that process has been handled neatly. One came a little late, and there were some pretty powerful problems here in the spring, but now has a country with something that we can live well with. The answer to the representative's question as to whether the Labour Party is critical to the right-wing turn of Norwegian policy is that the jam says itself. There should be no doubt that the Labour Party was not critical of a right turn with liberalisation in all fields, with more competition in all fields. That doesn't mean one is negative to all new ways of doing it. When it comes to OPS, we haven't been against it. We just wanted to take it a little bit step by step, and now we were interested in taking a step when it was the crazy track, where we're going to run the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e344	During the previous period, the Committee on Transport traveled around the country and visited all the counties. We looked at road sections and where was the need for road construction etc. In this period, we've started on the same round dance. We have been in several counties and looked at the need for road construction. Plans are being drawn up, and once the national transport plan has been adopted — and there are also proposals from the different batches on what they intend to do in the next four years — then the first thing the different batches do is run away from their promises. I think the answer from Løvik to Nistad was interesting: you owe each other. I also heard that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt owes him to the Right because they have not fulfilled their promises. But the responsibility for keeping promises lies with the individual party that promises something? Then it is amazing that both the Workers' Party and the Right are running a rough race where they accuse each other of not keeping promises. None of them fulfill their promises. They run from their promises as fast as their feet can carry them. My questions are: are not the promises made to people of the individual parties, at least from the Workers' Party and the Right, in the national transport plan, really to keep people fooled? Why is the Workers' Party not fulfilling its own promises? I hope I get a concrete answer to that, and not one that Løvik gave when he went to the frontal attack in the belief that attack is the best defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e351	There is a need for a road in this country. I've also seen it on many of these tours in the county, but there is also a need for other ways to get around. National transport plan is not only a plan of progress, but a holistic plan. He's a good traveler if one follows him up. I agree with Kenneth Svendsen that we are not good enough. I don't think the Labour Party is good enough to follow up. But what is written in the national transport plan should probably either be taken away or be written in large print, i.e. that we should evaluate every year what it is economically defenceable to spend money on. People see it as pure promises that something is coming here in 2004, and as I said, the Jærbanen and the freight terminal are examples of it. But then the money won't come as early as you thought, and then I'm guessing that either we have to call the National Transport Plan a priority plan, or we have to be more able to follow up what we promised. Because I agree with the representative that our only comfort is that there is not so much distance between what we in the Workers' Party have promised, and what we think is for the Government Party. That's the saddest thing we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e356	We have a railway in Norway that is essentially the way it was built over 100 years ago. The need for rail refurbishment and renewal is great. The national transport plan intends to invest DKK 19 billion in railway infrastructure up to 2012. Already now we're $6 billion according to this plan. Norway is in the process of being alighted — a sink — by rail. SV has given priority to increasing the allocation to the railway by 940 million. kr in its alternative budget. Within the reduced agreed transport framework, we have re-prioritized and increased rail investment by 293 million. kr. On the other hand, the working party has only increased the framework for railway investment in its alternative budget by 80 million. kr, and within the reduced framework, there is no single ear more to the railway. If we continue the Workers' Party's railway effort by 80 million. kr per. years during the transport planning period, there will be scarcely one billion more to the railway. There's not much, and it's at the level that NSB calls the remediation option. My question to the Workers' Party and to Ausdal Starrfelt is: why has the Workers' Party not given more priority to rail in its alternative budget? And what will the Workers' Party do to enable us to achieve the rail objectives of the National Transport Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e365	Here the president can see how we feel: slip from the right side because we spend too little money on the road, and slide from the left side because we spend too little money on the railway. That's essentially where the Labour Party is. We think both are very important. We cannot give priority to a large transport project, for example. Promise, because we're going to have more money for the railroad. We actually think that the Jærban and Lofast are equally important. With 200 million. NOK in additional permits let us difor int 80 million. kr to the railway. In other ways, we used some of them for express buses and something more for the collective effort in the big cities, so that the collective profile is not significantly worse. That being said, I must say that during the last year I have been a hot railway friend. There I think that at least I have the fraction with me, some of them might have been even longer. I really hope that we have a good basis for making good plans, where we're in line with what we promise, and that's what we're going through next time, so that we can also show a real commitment on the railway ahead, that we don't just see that it goes below and home, and we don't do anything about it. I think Sweden can be a good model for us in this way. When, in a single budget, the framework has been given, the promises for important projects are proposed, they are much more difficult than when we look at them in a whole. But as I said, if we try to say yes to both parts, there will be no maximum cork on rail or road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e374	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e378	Traffic is something that concerns us all, and the most important part of transportation is roads. Roads are what we all use, whether we live in the central eastern region or far out in the district. Unfortunately, it looks as if the road comes into the back of the line in relation to the railway. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has assumed that almost DKK 1.7 billion more will be spent on transport. Taking into account the reductions proposed in rail and other efficiency proposals in the transport budget, the Progress Party will release a total of DKK 3.8 billion for road purposes. In addition to this, we have proposed in the foreign budget to spend SEK 1.5 billion on road construction, so that the total pot Progress Party wants to use for road construction and maintenance is approximately. 17 billion kroner, a supplement of 5 billion kroner compared to what the government has proposed. The need for more money for road purposes is enormous. When you read in newspapers and watch TV that Sweden, with a billion dollars in debt, strongly forces the construction of a new E6 from Svinesund into Sweden, while, in one of the world's richest countries, we don't want to spend money saving lives on E6 through Eastfold or other counties, a nearly Norwegian big-time politician has to understand that. The Progress Party has proposed a significant investment in E6 through Eastfold, and it is important to note that this is fresh money! The Progress Party sees the need for a massive expansion of the road sector. Then it is not useful to trick yourself by taking from one project to give to another. If a life is lost in the Westfold, Eastfold, or Trondelag counties, it's just as wrong. What is particularly wrong is that many of these lives could have been saved if the majority of the population had been willing to spend more money on road investment and road maintenance. There are investments in different new routes, including: on E6 in Akershus, good examples of. We have also seen this in Westfold, where new roads with higher speed limits – 100 km per hour – lead to a dramatic fall in the frequency of accidents. It's after the new, better roads have come into place. The elimination of accidents on the roads is particularly important for the Progress Party. It should also be for the other parties in this Chamber. When I add the credit, I think they mean it when they say they work out of zero vision: zero killed and injured in traffic. The problem is just that it looks like the majority have significant problems understanding how to achieve such a goal. To understand that, I would recommend to those parties that do not want to spend more money on the road and on the road, to read the alternative budget of the Progress Party. There's most of the solutions. Although accidents are important to life, prosperity is also important. Fast and stable growth is very important for business. This is a be or not for the settlement. If the majority of those who talk so well about district policy had wanted to bet on road construction and road maintenance, it would probably also have looked different. It should be a dilemma for both the Right, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre that every time the movement power increases, the same parties send more money to county councils and municipalities, as if they had moved south! I have not seen a single municipality that has moved south, but I have seen a lot of individuals and businesses that do. So the other parties send more money to the municipalities when it's the individuals and businesses that have problems. And then they're sitting in their heads and they're clapping and wondering why business and people are moving! Unfortunately, the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties did not lead to the large flow of money from rail to road. As can be seen from our draft budget, which is within the framework, the Progress Party is moving from rail to road for 1 billion kroner above. In this year's budget agreement, we were able to move new fresh funds, 150 million. kr, for more road construction. Of course, this is too small, but at least it's a little bit of a step in the right direction. But, as I said, unfortunately, it's too little. In the previous budgetary agreement with the Government Parties, the Progress Party brought with it the Government Parties to increase competition, inter alia. on the railway track. I have registered that those who are opponents of competition use many counter-arguments, including: that there are no other actors ready to enter the market. To that it is said that one cannot expect Norwegian operators to be ready to start railway operations today when it has not been allowed to compete on the track in the past. But I'm sure that when this is adopted, and a market is established, actors will appear, both Norwegian and foreign. And if this had been done in the past, Norwegian players had already been established and could perhaps have had advantage in Europe as the railway also opens here. But with the steep attitude the Workers' Party and SV have had against progress, unfortunately the opportunity is much worse. The whole purpose of such a reform is to gain competition so that users can have a better offer, and that the public can release funds that can be used in other areas of transport, preferably on road construction. I imagine that the many unprofitable routes that Stortinget wants to continue are being offered, so that the public buys services from the one that offers the best possible offer at the lowest possible price. This is a simple and good principle, such as: used for the purchase of air services from Ontøe. And I haven't heard anyone who has arranged for the state to have a Repentance in order for customers in areas where flying is not profitable to get a good flight offer. The express buses are a flexible and efficient way of resolving collective services. Today, it has been virtually impossible to establish express bus routes which have a competitive rail surface, and the need for liberalisation in this area has been evident to most people for many years. The Progress Party has, of course, raised this several times, through questions or suggestions. So last year, we got a pass on this principle. It is not primarily a victory for the Progress Party, but for the users. The problem is that it looks like things are going very late in the Ministry of Transport in getting such offers approved. I know that there is a desire to start up such an offer, among other things. between Bodø and Trondheim, but it looks like it takes time to get it ready. I just remember that this has been decided by the Storting last year. As regards the diesel refund for express buses, I cannot understand that the government parties with the Left in the head again tried to remove this, which would have led to fewer and more expensive bus routes in District Norway. Fortunately, the Progress Party was able to reverse the district enemy effort of the Government to remove these funds. That's $30 million. kr in compensation for the express buses because the majority of Stortinget charged the bus service a diesel charge. This shows that when the other parties talk about collective solutions, including for the districts, the Progress Party is acting. If someone were to trick, this might be one of the reasons why the Progress Party is in strong growth, among other things. in District Norway. Before 11 September last, there were clear signs that the use of aircraft as a means of transport was decreasing. This reduction was strongly reinforced following attacks on the United States on 11 September. Although the situation has stabilised, aviation is facing major challenges in the future. In particular, lower activity will lead to lower revenues for the Aviation Agency. In the view of the Progress Party, it is particularly important that, in such a situation, the Swedish Aviation Agency shows that they are willing to convert. The costs of the aviation service are passed on as known to users in the form of different flight charges. Failure by the Swedish Aviation Agency to convert to lower revenues could lead to higher user charges, which would be dramatic given that Norway already has one of the world’s highest user charges. An increase in such charges will lead Norwegian aviation into an ever higher-priced evil spiral, which in turn will lead to fewer passengers and less income. The 2002 Budget Agreement provided the Progress Party with an impact on the organisation of the Aviation Agency as a public limited liability company. This improves the ability of the Swedish Aviation Agency to meet the future for the benefit of users. The Progress Party considers that the transformation of the Aviation Administration into a limited liability company will bring significant efficiency gains, but it is particularly important to establish that such a gain is not to be favoured by the State in terms of returns and dividends thereafter. It is a prerequisite for the Progress Party to fully benefit users from the transformation into a limited liability company in the form of lower charges. It is important to understand that the funds used for the construction and operation of aerodromes in this country are not funds paid by the State, but funds paid by air passengers in the form of charges. It is therefore directly immoral that the State should be able to take advantage of these resources. But we'll get back to this. A critical review of the Air Safety Authority could lead to savings in order to reduce user charges. The Progress Party will then also oppose the introduction of a new passenger charge to finance the security controls. In view of this, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party and the proposals to which the Progress Party is advocating. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if our good alternative proposal to all presumptions should fall in this Chamber, we will subsidize the negotiated proposal of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e414	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. If the President has understood this correctly with the financial position, much will be required for the original proposal of the Progress Party to be adopted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e421	It is quite surprising that the Progress Party has been involved in the budgetary agreement that we have. Based on Kenneth Svendsen's contributions, you have money for the most part. My question to Kenneth Svendsen goes on transportation, of course. From Stortinget's Chair, he talks about the only solution to district policy, relocation and business needs in District Norway, being better solutions. I agree with Kenneth Svendsen that you also need better road solutions, but my opinion is at least not that it is the only solution. So I could imagine that Kenneth Svendsen said a little more if that's the only solution he has. It's something else that's quite amazing when you talk about having money for the most part. If you are to listen to business and to the people, the business community thinks you should give more priority to the railways. You have a railway that goes from Bodø to Trondheim, the Nordlandsbanen, which is soon in decline, and I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is not at all involved in prioritizing the railways – perhaps for Kenneth Svendsen's part you should lift the tab on the Nordlandsbanen. So my question to Kenneth Svendsen is about how he looks at the Nordlandsbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e435	I don't think I've ever been up on this pulpit and said that road solution is the only solution for District Norway. Because it's not. We have the fuel tax, which is a good solution: by reducing the fuel tax, there will be a lot more people who can live in the districts, and could transport their children or themselves to acting rings and to cultural experiences in a reasonable way, rather than being at home because they can't afford to pay, among other things. the fuel and diesel bill. There are many, many tax proposals that can make it better for people living in the districts. So the way is not the only solution. Then I wonder if the representative Stroem and I have been to the same meetings with the business community. For the times I've been in contact with business, they haven't complained much on the railway. What they have said is: road, road, road, road! Keep the mountain crossings open, get the ferries to go more frequently, close again the holes on the roads instead of putting up the sign that there is a hole there, and instead of putting up the sign that there is coming rocks falling down from the mountain side, remove the stones that are coming crashing! They want money, and we are also proposing it in our alternative budget. As for the fact that we have entered into a budgetary settlement with the government parties, I can comfort the representative Strom that we did that while we were holding our noses. But after all, it was 150 million. kr more on the way than it would be with the Workers' Party. It was better to get the 150 million. kr more than not to get it. But it is not a good budget that is adopted here. A good budget that had been adopted here had been entitled ‘Various Party Alternative State Budget’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e444	In the budget of the Progress Party it is stated in the case of rail, I must mention that the railway “can be an effective solution in areas with high population density” and the party notes that “there are few such areas in Norway”. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, rail investment is cut by DKK 1 billion. If this transport priority were to continue during the transport planning period, it would be €9 billion less for rail in the period up to 2012. There will be a rampage of Norwegian railways, and it will make Norway a remote sink in Europe both in relation to the environment and in relation to infrastructure in general. More and more of Europe's freight transport is to move from road to boat and rail. In the EU, more money is not being invested in the way, but in the railways. It is my prediction – and many with me – that goods to Europe from Norway for the next five to ten years will not arrive if they are not transported by rail. Of the freight transport on sections of Norway where rail and road are parallel, the railway has more than 30 pst. market share. On the route from Bodø to Oslo, the railway has 50 pst. market share of goods. So this freight will be transferred from rail to road by the Progress Party. My question to Kenneth Svendsen is: Has the Progress Party assessed the impact of its railway policy? The impact on the population of urban areas has been assessed, for example: a city like this, Oslo – when hundreds of new trailers with goods are going to enter the big cities daily, hundreds more? [[The President clubs.]] Has the impact on rural business been assessed, which will not produce its products to the markets?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e455	The President will advise everyone to hold the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e458	I don't know if the representative is aware of what part of the world we live in. So here it's a long, long distance with a scattered population, and it's especially like this along the Northern Railway. It is not like we are doing a heavy cutting without building up an alternative offer. I actually thought the representative had brought that. We cut down by approx. One billion kroner on the railway, but we'll spend over $5 billion on refurbishing the roads that go parallel. In these areas, there would have been a lot more transport by rail if freight traffic had been given priority — that's the big problem. Priority should be given to reaching the markets when it comes to achieving them. They had then received more goods on the railway. It is clear that, as we say, the railway has an advantage in densely populated areas. We have densely populated areas in Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. There's a short distance between large population units. It's clear that the railway has its function. But it doesn't have it between Trondheim and Bodø, where there are very few areas where there is a large proportion of the population. It's also interesting to see that what's happening in North Norway is that the railway is used by private companies that send their transport over Sweden with a private company, because that's where it pays to do it. But they don't send it with the state-owned company NSB or CargoNet, which is the dream of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e469	The fact that the Progress Party has shown its willingness and ability to cooperate in the budget this year is positive. For the transport sector, this has led to an increase in the framework of 160 million. kr for different road purposes, which may contribute to the possibility of useful extra effort in some areas. But I think we have to be able to see, if you're realistic, that unfortunately it's not possible to get out of the islands of traffic that are especially connected to our centres. In this respect, it is natural to wonder that the Progress Party reduces the budget for NSB Passenger Traffic by a total of 650 million in particular. kr, at a time when more and more people are mobile, and how many have to commute between housing and work, between housing and various activities. So it's traffic jam even though new roads are being built to a significant extent. Should we not be able to reconcile the fact that major parts of passenger traffic must and must be on the road in order to relieve these central city centres? And why should it be cut especially in the services of the NSB when these services can help to remove cows — cows that are there even if new roads come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e474	I would like to thank the representative Holten, who is a nice person, for the nice words about the willingness of the Progress Party to cooperate. I also feel that there was a good tone in our budgetary negotiations. We reached agreement, and I hear the representative Holten and actually others from the same party say with great weight that the Progress Party has managed to draw this budget in the right direction. Then it is amazing that the Christian People's Party is so much against the fact that the Advance Party will join them in government. Because if we had been in government with them, we could have drawn them even more in the right direction, so that the Christian People's Party had become even more satisfied with the solutions in the budget. If what Holten says can be seen as an invitation to conversations, we would like to set up when the representative has to. So we've set up alternatives to the construction of the railway. In the case of long distances, the express bus is a good alternative. For many, I think it'll eventually prove that the bus is a more flexible and better alternative than the railway. A little bit of our point when we talk so hot for the express bus, is that people are going to be allowed to choose offers, choose whether they want to use the railway or express bus, and then I think a lot of people are going to choose the bus. When it comes to traffic, that's exactly what Holten says. There is traffic on the E18, on the E6, mostly everywhere, and the reason is simple and easy that the roads are too small. The only reasonable thing is to expand the road network in this country, so that the cars and express buses and others who use the road can drive on proper and traffic-proof roads and arrive in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e487	SV wants a new transport policy – a transport policy based on addressing environmental challenges and the need for good communication in rural areas. Investing in public transport is a prerequisite for doing so. Good cities need transport that does not pollute. Trikk, T-Bahn and trains are modern zero-emission precursors, which contribute to a good growth environment for children and young people. The transport sector today contributes heavily to the overall environmental pressures. The transport sector represents 24 pst. of the climate emissions. It is the main source of health-threatening local air pollution, and road construction and other infrastructure require habitats for plant and animal species. The budget adopted today will help to aggravate the negative trends. Climate emissions will increase, local air pollution will increase, and more important habitats for plants and animal species will be displaced. I record that the government thinks the budget is a commitment to public transport. At the same time, I record that the public transport operators do not agree with that. The management of Oslo Sporveier suggested that 42 p.m. be closed. of the tram offer in Oslo. There were even plans for asphalting on some sections. Every tenth bus route in Bergen is to be laid down, there is a regular route in Trondheim, and collective societies across the country indicate that next year's offer will have to be more expensive and worse. In the 1930s in Los Angeles, it was proposed to pave the way. Then there was depression, and the reason why you did it was that you wanted to speed up the car industry. That's what you did. Because there is such a measure that cars will become more competitive in relation to public transport. I have no doubt that public transport in Norway is underfunded, and we must stop imagining that we can operate a public transport as much cheaper as other countries we can compare with. The operating grant share in Oslo, which is high score in Norway, is 30 pst, while the average for European cities we can compare with is 50 pst. This starvation of public transport in operation cannot continue. That is why we have proposed significant increases on the operational side of public transport. In addition, in Norway we are world champions in driving trains on single-track routes. Now we are so keen on infrastructure measures on the railway that in just two years it amounts to NOK 1.3 billion. Continuing this out of the National Transport Plan period, we will have lost NOK 6 billion in infrastructure measures. It's basically so simple that next year there's only one big project on the railway. SV agrees that it should be to improve the double track for Asker – we agree with the priority – but there is therefore only one large plant in operation. I'm very worried that we won't get started and get done with the double track Oslo–Ski. The south corridor in Oslo is congested, and I fear that we can end up in a situation where the road strike comes before, which will further increase the pressure on Oslo and create more air pollution in the city. Last year, road traffic in the northern part of Westfold – what we call the new racetrack – increased by 11 pst. in one year. The train has lost many passengers on the same route. This was a problem many were concerned about when considering the national transport plan, that the infrastructure measures for the train should not slow down in relation to the railway, so that competition was distorted. Christian People's Party, which in ancient times was an environmental party, wrote in its comments at the time: ‘These members consider it important that investment in the infrastructure of trains does not slow down. This may lead to the establishment of a wrong travel pattern. Therefore, these members wish to speed up the implementation of important actions on both the Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway.’ It's glitteringly written – that time! The problem is that the ‘wrong’ travel pattern is in the process of establishing itself today. Important measures on the Westfold road are planned, it is ready to put the spade in the ground, but a crown is not allocated to it. In Sweden, for every krona you invest on the road, you invest two kronor on the railway. I guess we can also add as a curiosity that we have at least got one clear news in the hall here today. The Progress Party is now actively moving in to bring down the Nordlandsbanen. That's interesting. The problem is that with the infrastructure measures we have now, they may eventually succeed in doing so. In this round we have also dealt with the situation of Flytoget AS. And the model that the majority set up when it comes to organising the flight is not good. The Council of Transport States is now to become a general meeting of two competing railway companies. So she has to do her best to compete with each other. I've been trying to imagine what a day for the Council of State will look like with the new organization. It can look like this: she can come up with lunch with Flytoget AS and discuss how to take the rat on the NSB on the Gardermoban, and she can eat lunch with NSB AS to discuss how to take the rat on the Flytoget AS. And if she gets her weight down, she can have dinner with the Railway Agency to decide who should have the priority on the line. The only competition established is a competition in lobbyism. I'd like to be there. It is the way in the Committee on Transport that the consideration of plant and animal species, of the biodiversity around us, may not be what is closest to everyone. We have received a proposal to keep Row 7 above the Hardanger wide open winter. This is proposed despite the fact that this year’s UN Environment Programme has presented a report that shows that Norway does not take sufficient account of the fact that we manage a wild reindeer that we have an international responsibility to care for. We know that a winter open reef 7 is a problem for the wild rein trunk. At the same time, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Government did not at least go in for the same highway to become a tribal road, but that it is excluded in the future. And then I hope that what happens next to assessments, ends with the result that we get a winter bar Rv 7 over Hardangervidda. The majority also suggests that the Wolfwater should be destroyed by E39. It's an important location for the lockdown. But what are the feeding places of the lock option for a new road? There are not many such feeding grounds for the lockdown, and the species is in severe decline. There's a lot of food for the lockdown where that road is going. It's a shame it's going to be displaced just for one way. The majority also proposes to give money to Lofast, and we will come back to that when the project is presented as a separate matter in the new year. The majority also disagree that we need to do more research on zero-emission cars. I think it's sad. We have production of zero-emission cars in Norway. We're way out there. We produce a little thing called Think. It's been an excellent city car. At the same time, I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport is now taking greater responsibility for research appropriations than has been done in the past. The Coastal Station has a great responsibility. They take over SFT's responsibility for emergency response. The Murmansk oil tanks, which are now to pass our coast, make this more important than ever. And I sincerely hope that the department will be able to have enough focus to follow up this extremely important work. Finally, let me stress that I am seriously concerned about the future of the railway in Norway. The lack of willingness of the Government and, in particular, the government parties on the Stortinget to give priority to the necessary investment in railway infrastructure, means that the road for those of us who dream of modern and environmentally friendly transport in Norway is long. In conclusion, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e530	Heidi Sørensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e535	The Socialist Left wants a new transport policy. That's good to right. But when the representative Sørensen didn't give me a good enough explanation of SV's railway policy in practice, and what they want to appear as, I would like to challenge the representative to explain it a little closer. In the budget, SV has moved millions of miles from path to path, which is what they'll vote for. But two examples recently have told us all that life and learning do not always hang together. SV is opposed to expanding the freight terminal on Ganddal before new double track on Jærbanen. The result is that 40 000–60,000 more trailers are going out on a road that does not have the capacity of one already today – and one terminal has to do. The reason for this is that SV locally opposes. In a few days, we'll be discussing trasé elections for the Ringeriksbanen. SV in Buskerud and locally, minus those who live in Hole, are some with the Workers' Party in that it is nothing other than the Kroksund option that will result in the abbreviation of Bergensbanen. What is the Health Level of SV? Does SV think that the country was built once and for all, or is the one-sided environmental argument, as the definition used earlier, that underlies? Does it not matter that emissions increase with increasing road traffic, or that noise and interference resulting from new train tracks in cities hamper the land use by paving the way for trasés that will probably never be built? The majority of Storting’s decisions from 1992 could have been implemented and put on track, but the Swedish authorities say no. And then I see that SV goes in to close Row 7. Does SV mean that Hallingdal should be without road connection through winter, and what is the point of view of SV on Rv 50?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e546	The emissions from the transport sector worry us a lot. Not least, we are concerned about the adoption of the major new road projects, such as the E18 through Vestfold, which have increased road traffic by 11 pst. only in one year. We are very concerned — the whole of environmental policy The Labour Party is asking us about our railway priorities. They're very clear. They are similar to the professional priorities of the Railway Agency and the NSB. We must bet on the railway first where it has the best competitive advantage, namely around Oslo, on the Eastfold and Westfold tracks. As regards the issue of the Railway, we agree that it should be built, but the party is of the opinion that it is not ready to go into concrete OPS projects yet, and we promise to come back to that in a future debate. I'm looking forward to the next Tuesday, because then we're going to discuss the Ringerix Railway. I'm very proud of what we've got there. We've made a crossroads for the Ringerix Railway. The Stortinget has been doing it for more than ten years without having done it. Now a majority in a majority vote is in favour of a trasé election through a very complicated area. I think that with this trasé election, there will be many forces working hard to get the Ringerix Railway to take higher priority than it has in its existing national transport plan. So all the way to Rev 7. Yes, I want Rv 7 closed. Yeah, I'll take that into account for the wild train. I think it's so important in relation to our international responsibility that I can't go in to keep it open. But I'm recording that Sigrun Eng has split around a proposal on our desks today that concerns Rv 50, and I want to inform you that SV is going to support that proposal, and then I hope we can get a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e559	As usual, SV has a singing song about public transport. I would like to join a song about public transport, but I think that traffic would have gone better if politicians had kept their hands away. As usual, SV fires at the Progress Party, and this time for the Progress Party to put down the Nordlandsbanen. Then I have a question for SV. NSB Gods does not use its own path. They drive the goods into Sweden on the ARE trains. And then they run all over Sweden, up to North Norway. Then it's a little bit surprising that it's the Progress Party that's going to blame for the closure of the Nordlandsbahn and the non-use of the route, when the NSB doesn't even use its own path. I could also mention several routes where the NSB sets up hopeless times to run, or on which they won't run goods at all. Why does the representative Sørensen not then want to criticise the use of the NSB and not just blame it all on the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e566	I thank the Advance Party for the question. But they're still to be blamed. They were to be blamed for the Nordic Railway being laid down, if that was up to me. I hope no one else agrees, but it's good that one of the parties has come out of the closet, so we get a real debate on this. I said in my post that in Sweden it is so that for every penny you invest on the way, you invest two kroner on the railway. And then I'm going to go around here and be mad at the NSB so that they choose to run traffic on the paths that are best maintained and in the best condition? It doesn't make any sense. The Progress Party and the majority of the Stortinget have done so that the Nordlandsbanen is in such a constitution – that we have not been given completely necessary cross-sectional tracks that we have masturbated in year after year. With two more crossing tracks on the Nordlandsbanen, we could have gotten many trailers off the roads, but there hasn't been one crown from the Progress Party, and not one crown from the majority. So I'm kind of going to get mad at the NSB because they choose to run on good Swedish routes, they're not going to happen. It may not be so strange that the Progress Party does not have so many voters in Oslo, because it is because the consequences of the Advance Party's policy in Oslo would have been that they had drowned in pollution. So in the last 20 years, we've built 25 new road files into town, and the speed of the queue has not increased. It goes exactly as fast this year as it did 25 years ago. The only thing that's increased is air pollution. What we've done is we're making the queues we're in, we're making the queues we were in before. But I must probably wait a long time for, and dream for a long time, that the Progress Party should understand that logic and participate in a collective effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e577	We have now been presented in two main posts for the extremes of Norwegian transport policy. The progress party wants to strip the railway and strengthen the road where they go in parallel. SV wants to do the opposite: strengthen the railway and take away from the road where they go in parallel. I think it's becoming more and more important that we have a center of Norwegian policy. It's like a pot to be distributed, and you have to get a fairly reasonable distribution. Now SV must be praised for keeping public transport high. But that also leads to dramatic cuts in the road sector. I'm just going to briefly mention that approx. 400 million. Cut on the E6, which is the main roadway between the south and the north, and where we also know that we have a railway that works relatively poorly. And then the cut was pretty strong. So SV, as I've already said, they want to bet on the railway where it has its advantages. There is no railway crossing the West fjord, and it is likely that there will never be any railway crossing the West fjord – even if there was a creative suggestion for a time back from a creative person, who said that we could set up a railway ferry from Bodø via Lofoten and to Narvik. I don't think it would have come to bear. But there's a road that's halfway there, that's Lofoten's mainland connection. It's spent 500 million. kr. But SV will not be able to complete it. At least they are not included in the comments, nor can I see that they have earmarked money for the measure. It has been claimed by nature conservation forces that there is so much interference in nature. Now it is the case that the Nature Conservation Association locally in the Vestralen has closed down the fighting search and congratulated Lofoten with Lofast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e588	Thank you! And thank you for the line from the Christian People's Party, which is calling for the centre of Norwegian politics. Then I think: the old centre of Norwegian policy in terms of environment and community transport, I also miss. I really miss it because I can't see it. I do not see it in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and at least I do not see it in the Committee on Transport. The old center, which had a burning commitment to public transport, I miss that. But to threaten that we have huge cuts on the way, to finance public transport and railway operations doesn't bite at me very hard, at least not when we've heard the committee leader boast that he's the second best. There has been no more money to go since Opseth. And I guess that wasn't a line you were so very proud of. If it's true that Løvik is the second best, after Opseth, then there's room for a couple of cuts and you could have transferred funds where they've been hard pressed, on routes where the railway competes with the road. The Christian People's Party itself has been concerned about how problematic this becomes on the Eastfold Railway and on the Westfold Railway, where road traffic is increasing and the railway is losing its absolute advantage in the areas where the railway has its absolute advantage. I fully agree with Jan Sahl that it would have been a bad idea to build the railway to Lofoten. Nor has SV ever suggested it. SV has a long history of entering the least destructive roads in these areas. It's a tradition this party is proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e595	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e598	Norway needs a responsible budget to save jobs and dampen interest rates. This has been important for the Christian People's Party and for the Government. The government therefore put forward a tight budget, but we have nevertheless found room for bet on collective services. I am pleased that the government's proposal for the 2003 State Budget for the Ministry of Transport amounts to a total of DKK 19.1 billion. This year's budget in the transport sector is also a budget that carries a signal of large conversions in different holdings, based on the fact that we want more activity for each krona used. The Ministry of Transport's budget for the following year means a substantial increase in public transport spending on roads and railways in the major urban areas, including: by reorientating material, multi-collective fields, terminals, holding sites and intersection priorities. The need for good and safe transport by the districts includes, inter alia: ensured through increased racial protection efforts, fixed decking on all national roads and a sharp increase in the transfer to regional airports. In addition, priority is given to road safety, operation and maintenance of roads and railways and the rational development of projects under way. I particularly want to commend the Government for its commitment to collective services. Public transport, including rail, is getting a huge boost in next year's budget. The resources for collective services are increasing by 590 million. NOK 8.3 billion in total. This is the biggest investment ever made in collective services. No other government in Norway can indicate anything similar. The representative of Ausdal Starrfelt is therefore not right when she claims in her speech today that there is no increase in the transport sector. We are increasing the framework for collective action in the road sector by 780 million. kr. We spend $5.8 billion on rail, and this is an increase of 280 million. kr from the 2002 budget. The initiative on the railway is an important collective action for the Christian People's Party. We're going to spend 178 million. to school, student and youth discounts, so that young people have better collective services. In view of this, I would like to refute the allegations that there is no commitment to collective services in the 2003 State budget. It is also taken into account that this is a very tight budget to reduce interest rates, there is reason to note the significant collective service that the government's policy is now overseeing. Increased road allocations are important in order to improve accessibility and safety and to reduce transport costs and the remoteness disadvantages of districts. The government is proposing a total allocation of approximately $11.4 billion for road use. The cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, have also agreed with the Progress Party on more money for road construction. The RV bet is increased by 160 million. kr. With long distances and scattered settlements, Norway is dependent on a good transport offer. In addition, increased road appropriations mean better business framework conditions. The road network in Norway is the lifeblood of regional and local development. The road link is the basis for workplaces and housing. In addition, we are increasing the appropriations for the environment, prosperity and security. I am also pleased with the Government's commitment to increased measures for Safe Traffic, for road safety purposes and for the Cyclistese National Association, which is helping to increase road safety for the soft road users. Attitude-building through school and community training is positive for traffic. The Government has proposed that the Flytrain AS be separated from the NSB group. The state ownership of the company shall be placed directly under the Ministry of Transport. The Christian People's Party wishes to strengthen public transport and increase competition with Flytoget AS as its own company. The aim is to secure the flight as a good and environmentally friendly transport offer for travellers to and from the Gardermoen. The air train shall ensure its collective share while at the same time contributing to greater competition in rail transport. Such developments will help to strengthen public transport in competition with the passenger car. The government has opened up to start collecting tolls to finance road planning in Rogaland. The planning concerns projects included in the so-called "River package". Better communication is necessary in order to promote further growth and development in the Member States of the European Union. The Christian People's Party has stressed the fact that there is a great local willingness to finance the further planning of the project with advance payment of tolls. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's proposal. I want the means of transport to have the best possible effect. In this there is a desire to invest in road safety, district measures and public transport in the urban areas in the next year's budget, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e632	It's sad to read that so far there's 20 killed on the Eastfold roads this year, twice as many as last year. This is serious. It is therefore very important that we get a service for the Eastfold package both in terms of E6 and E18. Then it becomes quite incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party cannot now help supporting the Workers' Party's proposal to give Eastfold toll companies clear signal to take up loans, so that the Sekelsten–Krosby route on E18 through Ashim can be built in the best and most reasonable way with good progress. The representative Holten punishes disobedient bureaucrats and says that they are the ones who are responsible, but it becomes a bit funny when the representative Holten in the setting cannot be on the Workers' Party's proposal. As early as June, a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, promoted a proposal that the Eastfold Toll Company should continue to work on a plan to accelerate construction start-ups and that the Government, in the context of the 2003 budget, should return to the Stortinget with further progress in the project. The toll company has done its job. It doesn't have the council. My question to the representative Holten will then be: What has happened since June as the Christian People's Party cannot now support the Workers' Party's proposal on borrowing? And I have another question: Holten says that there has been a growth in both road and rail appropriations for next year. How can Holten do that when there's a growth of 1.7 pst? And the price increase is 2 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e639	I am very pleased that the co-representative from Østfold is committed to the positive and good progress of the Eastfold package phase 1. There should be no doubt that this has full support within the Eastfold Basin, precisely on the basis that we see that this important expansion on both the E6 and the E18 is of great importance not only to our county, but perhaps to the rest of the country. So we see that very positive. But it might have been useful, when the Workers' Party was told that there was now a majority, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, of the willingness to grant an allowance for the maintenance of this parcel which was mentioned here by Askim, that the Workers' Party could participate in such a positive decision to make an addition. What actually came was a proposal for debt financing. It definitely came in 12 hours. I personally received an e-mail from County rapporteur Arne Øren three hours after the budget was processed in the Committee. Of course, I'm looking at financing loans as an opportunity, but at this point it wasn't an alternative for the government parties. We had an agreement with a majority, and that is what underlies today's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e646	I remember in old days – a few years ago, in the last period, when the Christian People's Party was an environmental party. This was when Hilde Frafjord Johnson was on the Energy and Environment Committee and Rigmor Kofoed-Larsen was on the Committee on Transport. At the time, the Christian People's Party worked for renewable energy sources and public transport, and then they worked to protect biodiversity – the creation we are set to manage for future generations. It was in the old days, it was. Where's that commitment gone, -- is my question. Where is the exposure to public transport in the Christian People's Party today? Where is the involvement of the train in the Christian People's Party today? I've learned one thing in the Committee on Transport, and that's that you have to ask about what's close. That is why I would like to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party about the Eastfold package, which – if you are not aware of it – also contains railway measures, with a new Mosse tunnel. But with today's level of railway investment, we must probably shoot a white stick after that, maybe it will be in 2015 or 2020. But where is the exposure to the Mosse tunnel on the railway? And – to move us a little closer to the capital – the Christian People's Party sits in a majority in Akershus and works hard for Oslopak 2 to get a new double track to Ski, which will also be good for the rest of the country, for Eastfold and for our connection to Europe by train. But where is the Christian People's Party's commitment to that? Has it evaporated too? I must admit that I miss the old Christian People's Party, and in the Committee on Transport, it is striking how deeply one must miss the old commitment. That's why I want to give the representative Holten two minutes to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e655	I can assure the representative Heidi Sørensen that the environmental activity of the party is equally strong. When she referred to the previous period, I was present, which Heidi Sørensen was not. So I think that the development and progress we have in environmental matters are present in the same way. I can also assure you that the Ostfold package phase 1 has the Mosse tunnel inside, but it is a formulation related to the exact solution that is not parallel to the E6 and E18. But I believe that if the representative Sørensen goes in and looks at the enquiries made at least from the undersigned to the Council of State, the representative will see that the question has not been raised. And – as I so far had in my main post – in this year's budget for collective action, it's a strong promise, and it's a promise that we haven't seen in previous governments. I would also like to say that this government has made a significant investment in collective services in this city in recent times. I expect the representative Sørensen to have a full overview of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e662	I have to admit that I wonder where the Christian People's Party's commitment is today, because they're not engaged in what they were engaged in, and they're not talking particularly hot for what they're doing right now. When the representative Holten talks about this budget as a historic lift, yes, he must have small ambitions. Then to Eastfold. The Labour Party – and I hope that the representative Holten has noticed – is working positively to find solutions in Eastfold. There are many major challenges in the county, but we have found a solution when it concerns E6. We support the Government's proposal. And when it's for E18, we go further than Holten, for $15 million. kr doesn't appreciate it very much. What they need is to borrow. When the Holten tries to owe it to the process, we have to take a decision about it quite quickly. I recall last year's budgetary procedure, where severe structural reforms were decided over the table just before the presentation of the budget position. So the representative Holten cannot decide that the toll company can borrow money to advance the project at no extra cost to the state, I do not understand. And then there are many Christian People's Party voters on the Jären – at least that was it, now we don't know completely. And then I wonder how Odd Holten will respond to his party traps on the Jären, who want to get a double track from Stavanger to Sandnes, who doesn't want at least to get a freight terminal on Ganddal so we get more goods on the track, and who wants to use the money in a sensible way. So I ask why Holten and the Christian People's Party today will vote against the Labour Party's proposal for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e671	Yes, it is common in this room that attack is the best form of defense. And when the Workers' Party has now chosen to stand on the sideline and be an commentator party rather than go in and participate in finding concrete solutions, it is natural to use the opportunity to tell those who have chosen to join in and take joint responsibility, of course get a weak profile. Of course, I do not believe that this is a correct description of the situation. We've clearly identified what the party stands for in the field, but we've also chosen to share responsibility with three parties, and that means that you can't just start your own program. I have experienced from previous years in this house that the Workers' Party, when they were in position, was very difficult to accept suggestions from other parties. So it doesn't have a Christian People's Party, we're going into a partnership with others. Then to the Eastfold package. Yes, it is a proposal for a road solution that is both necessary and good, and for which, fortunately, we have a majority in Stortinget. We're happy about that. I would also like to remind you that in the documents that exist, we have also opened up the possibility of borrowing. But it's in this budget that we have now committed. There's an opening for 30 million borrowings. kr from last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e683	The 2003 CAP budget is far from the government’s statutory part of the national transport plan. The lag so far in the period is approx. 1.4 billion kroner for road and approx. $1.3 billion for the railway. If we compare with the promises in the Sem statement, we're being followed even more. This shows that the transport sector is far from the priority of the Government. The central party thinks it's important to be more involved in trade than what's in the government budget. We have therefore proposed in our alternative budget to bet approx. One billion extra on the trade. Free capacity is still available in the civil engineering sector. This available capacity we think we have to exploit. In this way, we can implement important projects and eliminate bottlenecks/accident hazards and thus reduce transport costs for business. These include: a strong need to improve road standards in many places, and many road projects are ready to be realised. In the draft budget presented, there is a certain strengthening of the maintenance and commitment to security measures. But even with a certain increase in the bet in these areas, the need is still great, and the demand for maintenance has built up over time, which will take many years to reduce. In order to trigger the large value creation potential in the districts, the development of the secondary national road network will be decisive. The emphasis is often placed on good main routes across the country, but very many of the commercial activities are not along these main routes. So we don't have to forget the secondary highway network that is decisive to get to the main routes. This will increase efforts in the development of the national road network. We also do not want to remove the racial protection record, as the Government suggests. So we're very happy that there's now a multiple, all except for the government party, that still wants a separate entry for racial protection. There's a lot of rascal routes around the country, and it's necessary to have strong stakes in this area. In its alternative budget, the Central Party has invested more in rail than the Government has done. The railway's advantage must be exploited. Development of terminals and nodes, crossing tracks and profile extensions are measures to make it easier and more effective for users. In addition, the Central Party believes that security measures need to be stepped up. Among others, remote control, train radio and automatic train stop must be priority actions. Several times in the context of the budget, the Committee on Transport has asked for a plan to be submitted for the use of ferries subsidiars in continental relations. Nor in the 2003 budget has the Government come up with clear rules for such use. It is therefore necessary once again to order the Government, on the basis of one or more specific projects, to submit proposals on how this can and should be done. I expect it's the last time the committee needs to ask for this. When the permits to state roads a few years ago were put into the framework of the county councils, it was planned that there would be a transitional arrangement for large county road projects. Countys that had large county road systems that were then planned and ready for expansion, and which could be said to have been “stood for luck” in order to have the government budget opened up were suddenly out of the opening position. It was therefore considered reasonable to have a transitional arrangement. The Government is now proposing to scrape the whole transitional arrangement. On questions from the Committee on a list of large county road projects, the Committee may draw up a list of county road projects for which the county councils have been given the use of their regional framework for these facilities. The Ministry has not listed large state road projects that have been waiting for the transitional arrangement and have not been given by the state-shared framework. Together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party, the Centre Party has repeatedly called for the transitional arrangement. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and SV, together with the Centre Party, remain committed to the implementation of the transitional arrangement. Finally, a few words about two issues that have been put forward in an addition to the budget: The one is the permission to preclaim tolls for the Ryfylspaket. In my view, the 2003 budget has little or nothing to do with it. But I'm glad that a multiple goes in so that this pre-claim of tolls can be carried out, so that the planning of the pack of tolls can continue. There are important projects for the area of the debt. The government has also presented proposals for changing the organisation of the Fly train in addition to the budget. The organisation of the Flytrain has debated the Committee and the Stortinget several times before. The majority have so far argued that the ownership of the Flytoget should be in NSB AS. The central party has always stood on this and disagrees with the Government, which will now move ownership from NSB AS to the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e709	There are not many days to skip that many times in a few hours. I would first like to thank the representative Ringstad for a good cooperation, insofar as it is also the same with SV. From last fall, these three parties have collaborated on a lot of issues. It's not that easy for the three of us to agree on the distribution of rail/road, but on the structural issue we can get along very well. I hope that cooperation can be further developed. SV owed the Labour Party earlier in the debate not to follow up with enough money for the railway in relation to the National Transport Plan. I think it's such that SV has a bigger problem in following up themselves in relation to their own promises. And maybe it's the way with the Center Party, too, that one can't completely follow up. We are like this in many ways in the same boat, perhaps with a slightly different weight on the backpack we have on. What we can hope for is that, until the next national transport plan is dealt with, we can find some grips that make what we promise, hang out more with what we do. I have to get back to Jærbanen. It was a very mass, but it was actually not just because I live where this applies. It has actually been a matter for the Labour Party long before I joined the Transport Committee. The Iron is, or was, not just full of Christian People's Party people. The iron is, or was, full of central party people as well. In my municipality, the Senterpartiet has had up to 30 pst. by the voice. I wonder how the representative Jorunn Ringstad will answer his party traps when she has to explain why he is going for a postponement and not for a OPS project, which would mean that we can get started with the freight terminal and the railway now, in a sequence where we get the most back for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e720	I would first like to agree with the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt that, in structural matters, the Central Party and the Labour Party stand together. Structural issues in the transport sector have been abundant in the period we are now in. Most of it needs to be changed relative to what it has before. It seems that only one is allowed to take the big hold, so everything should be just glory and joy. I think we'll see a little bit of each for years to come. So to follow up promises. The centre party has tried in its alternative budget to follow up the promise. We did that last year, and we did that this year. We have invested more than the government both on the railway and on the road in relation to the government's submitted budget. In five minutes, which was my assigned speaking time, there are many areas you can't enter. The railway was one of them. There's the Center Party and the Workers' Party together on the notes. The centre party is not on the Labour Party proposal, but the line gives me a chance to give an explanation of vote. The centre party will support proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, which is engaged in the development of the freight terminal and the Railway in a common OPS project. We found this to be a positive proposal, as, according to the information provided, an overall expansion will save investment costs. And with the tight frames that a person has in his trade, it's important that a user uses the resources that you have, in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e730	The centre party claims to be engaged in business in District Norway. The government has listened to the same business and maintained the main demand for a tight budget to facilitate positive interest rate developments and the corresponding exchange rate. The central part blows the rule of action by approx. 5 billion kroner, and thus the Central Party's additions to transportation do not even come to voting today. In addition, the Centre Party has also wide-ranging refusal to improve efficiency, competitive outsourcing and targeted use of the resources to make the most quality product out of money use. Many of us would think that the heirs of an old peasant party had the sense of sober household, where bold play with future pension funds would not come instead of solid mainland economy. How is the Central Party today prospering on this political line together with the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e737	When the representative, Mr. Hoddevik, says that the Central Party has breached the rule of action by NOK 5 billion, you're asking how to calculate for that number. But it is quite correct that we have added approx. Extra 1 billion for non-framed trades. If a chatter with business, of which Hoddevik's representative is obviously so busy, business is also saying in his own counties – I could give concrete examples of business stops – that it must be possible to put more emphasis on business, because there is one thing that matters most to them when it comes to developing and maintaining business in the districts. So Sverre J. Hoddevik listens to business with one ear, and then he doesn't listen to other important elements in what business says. If we don't have a business that works, we also have to assume that it will be flagged out. It is not only a tight economy that is decisive, but also distance costs and other elements are important for the same business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e746	I would also like to thank the Centre for good cooperation and be allowed to say that Jorunn Ringstad represents stability and continuity in many ways in an excellent way in the Committee on Transport. We're separating layers in some questions. But we actually managed to agree on a note that I think is a little eely, because it has a vanguard of old thought, which I think is common property, which is about town and country hand in hand. There we write that in large parts of the country we need better maintenance and better roads, but in the densely populated areas there needs to be extra effort on public transport. It tastes. It tastes good for us in SV as well. Then I would like to ask Jorunn Ringstad a little about the investment on the railway. Because if it's the case that we're going to bet on public transport in the most densely built districts, then the railway operation must also come here. I record that of the 1 billion kroner extra Senter Party has in its alternative budget, 150 million goes. kr to railway. So it says: Nordlandsbanen, Rørosbanen, profile extension on Bergensbanen, Ganddal freight terminal and Stavanger-Sandnes. To the Central Party: I do not believe that it is pure oslohat that the sections Oslo-Ski, Oslo-Asker or Eastfold Railway and the Westfold Railway are not mentioned. But at least it'll be a call to also remember that priority, because that's where the bottleneck in the network is. It's not lucky if we come out with a priority on the railway that's the opposite of what is professionally recommended by the Railway Agency and the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e755	I will also be able to draw up the good cooperation that both the Swedish People's Party, the Central Party and the Labour Party have done so far during this period. I think that when we're so much in terms of structural issues, we can also stick together on a lot of other things. If the representative Sørensen goes in and reads the Central Party's budgetary remarks in recent years, she will discover that the Central Party has repeatedly stressed that we have challenges in the transport sector across the country, but we cannot meet the challenges in exactly the same way everywhere. We are talking about a two-part effort: road development in the districts and more investment in rail and public transport in the densely populated areas. We stand firm on that. It is also stated in the comments on the Central Party in this budget, which it has done many times before. Then the representative referred Sørensen to a list of some projects that the central party I believe is important. I would just like to encourage the representative Sørensen to read well what it says before this listing, because it says "may be relevant". This is not a complete and complete list of all good actions. For example, in the case of: route Oslo-Asker, it is a project in full swing. The centre part has absolutely no desire to do anything to reduce the expansion of that section. The centre party also has a history, including: in connection with the national transport plan, point of the Oslo-Ski route as a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e766	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e769	In the national transport plan, it is very good. I want to quote a little bit from the national transport plan. It says, among other things. under the chapter on transport policy as a regional policy instrument: ‘The Government, through its transport policy, will contribute to the promotion of robust housing and labour market regions by: strengthen accessibility to and between regional centres in the districts to facilitate the provision of transport services for a decentralised business-safe good accessibility to regional sub-centres, capital and international travel-proofing the basis for public transport through government procurement of passenger transport services and the development of hubs related to state transport infrastructure.’;» Then we can ask ourselves what has happened in relation to the national transport plan, which should be a tool that would help to connect the country more closely. I think we have an incredibly big task ahead of us. At least the government has not followed up the national transport plan, and the promises that have been made have not been followed up. I think we all have to agree on that. Those who remember back to spring 1997 remember that the bourgeois parties promised much more to travel than the Workers' Party. Then came the Bondevik II government. So what happened? Yeah, the exact same thing as last time. The promises that were given have not been followed up. National transport plan has become a priority plan more than a propulsion plan. A good transport policy is important, because it is also a good business policy, but it seems that there is no willingness of the Government to follow the promises that have been made in the past. With regard to the provision of services on the regional grid by the Swedish Aviation Agency, the importance of air transport, the importance of air transport for districts, must be carefully assessed. For parts of, inter alia: The West and North Norway are a collective form of transport, both internally in the district and in relation to the country. Distances, difficult geographical and weather conditions and the lack of other modes of transport make aeroplanes an important mode of transport. This applies both to the regional aerodrome network and not least to the main route network. Unsatisfactory travel offers and high prices lead to problems and costs, both for businesses, individuals and the public. In the case of State purchases of unprofitable postal services for 2003, it is proposed that 305 million be allocated. kr. This is a decline of 67 million. NOK, or rather 18 pst. in relation to the 2002 budget. This is due to the less need for government purchases of postal services, which are related to the results of Posten Norge AS" work on conversion and efficiency. Everyone agrees that a dividend of 30 pst is to be paid. of the company's profits after tax. This will form the basis of the future dividend policy. Prevention and implementation of measures across the group are also important in order to reduce sick leave and the number of unemployed. This will also be an important job. But we want the Storting to be informed about the development of sick leave and the number of disabled persons in the company in connection with the next Section 10. The working party strongly fears that the Post as a company is approaching a pain limit for what is financially sound as a result of the government's cut. The Labour Party is very pleased that the majority agree to start the completion of Lofast in 2003. The Workers' Party is also very pleased that one has now received an impact for Lofast after numerous rounds from the Workers' Party. The working party is very little satisfied with the appropriations for the railway, and this may have disastrous consequences for, among other things. The Northern Railway. The aim must be to get more goods from road to road, and then a completely different priority must be given. This will largely affect business. I believe that we need to make more visible the importance of good transport solutions, both in the districts and in the central districts, and here I am thinking not least of cities, so that we can both maintain the settlement and have an infrastructure with which the business community is satisfied. Perhaps we need to use the word again and perhaps more often: city and land hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e809	The budget that we are to adopt today is within the strict framework of a very good road budget. This applies not least to the operational and maintenance budget, which is in line with the 2002-2005 action programme after two years. The government shall be in favour of this achievement. Racial protection has an increase of 45 million. Compared to 2002. It's a pleasure. In 2003, 550 million will be set. at the provision for racial protection. Racial protection is important to prevent accidents and to reduce the uncertainty and uncertainty experienced by many by daily crossing racially exposed places. We want to expand the main road network. This will provide better opportunities for steering and coordinating efforts on important cross-border transport routes and will also facilitate the development of transport corridors where road, rail and maritime transport can be seen in the context An example of this is Rv 9 Kristiansand–Hukligrend. We have major and important road projects under construction. On this occasion, I want to clarify the importance of rational progress, so that we avoid unnecessary stoppages in progress. We know that this often leads to extra costs. That's why I'm very happy with the extra 20 million. kr for 2003 which will go to the Bjørndal Cross on the E39 at Kristiansand. This gives clear indications that the whole road project E39 can be completed in its entirety by the 2004 timetable. This government is also in the process of transforming the public sector, which, in turn, is in the best interests of its citizens and users of public services, so that we get more money. The transformation of the Road Administration’s production department into a State AS is now taking place from 1 January 2003. The transformation leads to a clear distinction between the authority tasks of the Road Administration and the production activity. At the same time, this opens up full competition for the operation, maintenance and construction of the road network in Norway. The country’s road manufacturing activities will have framework conditions that are as similar as private operators in the market as possible, and they will be able to compete for government-managed tasks in line with private actors. In a conversion such as this, it has been important to safeguard the rights of employees. Analyses suggest that the new company has to go down from 4 750 to approx. 3600 persons during 2003. It depends, of course, on the competitiveness of the company and the development of the construction market. I wish the new company good luck with the new challenges and opportunities they face. I know that the company has a competence that can definitely compete in an open market. I have previously mentioned racial protection as part of road safety. The government strengthens this area in several fields, including: by granting more for the development of walking and cycling paths and more for Safe Traffic. Increased efforts and new instruments are needed to reduce traffic damage and kill. This means, among other things: new roads, road safety measures on existing roads, training and information. The many and tragic accidents that have occurred in my state, West Agder, in the last year, have affected many young people. As a result, three young girls from Kristiansand appeared in their fatherland friend and proposed measures to reduce the number of accidents. The girls had lost eight of their friends and acquaintances along the way. And as they said, we won't lose any more. Now they want to do something. They have had meetings with the Minister of Transport, and locally they have met with Trygg Trafikk and the State Road Administration. It's just giving honey to these kids. I hope that more young people do like the girls from Kristiansand, and I hope that this will also help to reduce all the tragic accidents that happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e832	In the future, it will be exciting to see whether all the wishes behind the proposals previously made by the Progress Party will be fulfilled – to allow express buses to run whenever they want, and where they will, if they are allowed to open their doors where passengers, customers, want to go on, and where they want to go off, about competition on the rail track, about offers in ferry traffic, and that the Road Service itself has to compete for its tasks. The last protected monopolies have fallen, and today no one is missing either the NRK monopoly or the Telewerk. We just have to hope that the reverse operation goes as fast as possible. The savings potential is high, and Norwegian transport needs money. Once again we have to note that unfortunately we have got a bleak budget for transport, and then of course I am thinking especially of the road sector. Of the total domestic transport, road transport accounts for around 85 pst. of passenger transport, and in the case of goods, the proportion is 50 pst. Almost all other goods are by boat. The railway, which is the big bet area for most people, doesn't even stand for 8 pst. of the carriage of goods. The progress party is very pleased that we have now received NSB AS, and we are very pleased that the first sections are now being offered. However, the rate of investment in the main road network is generally lost this time as well, while some alternative transport services are not proposed. We are also very concerned that the ordinary appropriations for road use are as small as they are in this budget. If we had spent only a few billion oil billions more each year on the infrastructure instead of trying to invest in foreign shares, Norway could today have a well-developed road network. We could have a modern railway that worked, and we could have the world's most modern airports, with low prices. Instead, we've gambled, and the oil fund has sunk. Investing in new and modern infrastructure had given Norway an advantage in the future. Unfortunately, we now experience that not only our capital in foreign shares is falling, but our capital in the infrastructure is also falling. Unfortunately, the aftermath is worse and worse. The Progress Party has included this in its budget. We want to increase the racial protection item by 200 million. kr. To increase operations and maintenance, we're adding 800 million. kr, and national road investments, both the district-divided framework and the main road network, we are increasing by SEK 2.8 billion. In addition, our foreign budget comes, where we have spent SEK 1.5 billion on the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e845	In the SV's alternative budget, we propose an increase in rural transport of 380 million. kr. It includes road, rail, ferry and maritime infrastructure. There is a significantly greater investment than the Government and the Progress Party have proposed in this year's budget for transport. It is necessary to increase efforts in these areas that we should be able to stop the relocation from the districts, and we should be able to secure the value creation in this country. In particular, I would like to mention that we want to increase the effort in terms of racial protection of the road network, by 100 million. kr. We disagreed with the Government that this earmarked entry for racial protection was to be deleted. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee agrees with us that this item should be retained. There are very many communities in this country where the population has to travel daily past rascal areas to get to school and to get to work. They experience a daily uncertainty and uncertainty that they should have escaped. Many enterprises have to close down their business in less-favoured areas due to an unsafe transport situation. It is estimated to cost 12 to 15 billion kroner to breed the Norwegian road network. A considerable amount of money has to be allocated for this purpose in the years to come, and we will have to make this challenge within a reasonable ten-year period. We propose to strengthen the allocation of national roads in the districts. We're increasing by 140 million. kr. It is these roads that together with the county roads keep the lowest standard and constitute the bottlenecks in the road system. We have prioritised the most disadvantaged regions in relation to the national transport plan: Hedmark, Oppland, Nordland, More and Romsdal and Hordaland. And we're proposing to increase the allocation of the national road transport operation by 20 million. kr. The Government has proposed to continue the same amount as in the budget of the year. It has been corrected later by the committee leader. The actual ratio is 46 pst. the achievement of the objectives in relation to the national transport plan. In reality, this means a decline in the framework of national road transport operations, because the increase in costs is not compensated. It surprises me that the bulk of the population does not take into account the serious situation we have in the national road transport operation. We have a ferry fleet where a whole 121 of today's 193 vessels will be 30 years old or older in 2010. It has significantly reduced new building funds in this year's budget. There will have to be consequences because EU Directive 98/18 strengthens safety requirements and the ferry fleet will fail to meet safety requirements in a few years’ time. The ferry operation also does not meet national service targets in relation to the route frequency in many counties. In the Nordic region, the target achievement is only 20 pst., and it is in many other states along the coast. It means short and well too poor route provision and too poor capacity. SV is the party that is the most committed in this budget on rail. Heidi Sørensen has outlined our priorities in his article. I'd like to mention the Northern Railway in particular. It is proposed to allocate funds to remote control of the Nordlandsbanen. 50 pst. of all freight transport between Bodø and Oslo is carried on the Nordlandsbanen. It is not obvious that this will happen in the future, if nothing is done quickly to increase the capacity of this route. In its socio-economic analysis of the remote management of the Nordlandsbahn, the Railway Agency has estimated that this measure, which will require 325 million. kr, will provide a net cost-benefit fraction of 1,78 for current traffic and a cost-benefit of more than 8, with an increase of 40 pst. over 10 years. There is such absolute potential for this, and in that case such a remote investment on the Nordlandsban will appear to be the most profitable transport investment in this country. I encourage the Minister of Transport to look at this particular investment into next year's budget. The Northern Railway is a priority line, and we should have remote control on the Northern Railway by the end of 2005. There have also been strong reactions among the population to driving passenger trains with medium-range standards, i.e. motor vehicles, which took on the route between Bodø and Trondheim. The Committee, acting unanimously, notes that this is a long-distance route requiring passenger comfort equivalent to the intercity standard. I guess it's a signature train. I would also like to ask the Minister of Transport to follow up on the NSB, so that there is a satisfactory comfort in terms of the passenger service on both night and day trains. [[The President clubs.]] Then I did not finish, but I can probably draw myself to a three-minute later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e871	The representative can certainly do that, even if I do not want to recommend it. It'll be three minutes' notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e875	The Christian People's Party wants to pursue a transport policy that will ensure good transport solutions throughout the country. The road budget was mentioned in our main post, but I cannot avoid commenting on the continuation of Lofoten's mainland connection. This is a joyous day for 24 000 loathings and for people in the neighbouring regions. Yes, it's a happy day for travel and other businesses in the region. The loft is now closer to the Ofoten region, to Evenes Airport and not least to Narvik with the ARE trains. A 70-year-old road requirement is now ahead of completion. There have been many cuttings in the sea since Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth of the Workers' Party found out that a tunnel under Hadself-earth was a better solution than the already started line. The debate between the Lofoten and the Vesterål has sometimes been tough, but I am pleased to note that the fronts are softening. I think there is a great deal of respect for the local association of the Union for the Protection of Nature in the Westphalia that is now shoving the resistance, and wishes Lofoten to be happy with the road. The government increases the subsidy to regional airports by 150 million. kr in 2003. 250 million. kr of the subsidy goes to the 28 regional airports operated by the Swedish Aviation Agency, while 12.5 million. kr is a subsidy to non-governmental airports. And then we're going to spend 401 million. kr for government purchases of non-businessly profitable air route services. The government proposes to grant 120 million. to the Air Safety Authority in 2003. It represents an increase of 3.2 pst., and with these appropriations the current government shows that it wants to take seriously the importance of aviation for the whole of Norway. Aviation is in a very difficult situation with a sharp decline in air traffic. This creates financial problems for the airlines and also for the Aviation Agency. The decrease in the number of air movements leads to significant reductions in revenue, undermining the ability of the Aviation Agency to expand and upgrade its aerodromes. Aviation plays an important role in the Norwegian transport system and, in particular, it is important to provide good air services for parts of the districts, which, due to long distances, depend entirely on good aviation connections. In the Christian People's Party, we are also pleased that the Government is proposing to increase the funding for fairways from 42.5 million. SEK in 2002 to SEK 51.2 million. kr in 2003. The increased investment means strengthening the safety of maritime transport and improving the means of transporting goods from road to sea. The rescue company is increased by 1.5 million in the budget. kr. The rescue company is making great efforts in the event of accidents and accidents at sea, and in the Christian People's Party we are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Rescue Company will jointly review today's cooperation and assess the company's role in the overall resource use related to coastal management. Furthermore, in the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the proposal from the Government provides for consideration to be given to the possibility of using natural gas in national road ferry services. It is appropriate to use gas in the ferry sector from an environmental point of view. This is particularly relevant in the West, but in order to expand the use of gas for transport purposes, it is essential to develop the distribution systems. In order to achieve profitability in distribution, it is also important to involve sectors other than the transport sector alone. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the Government is following up the initiative to get to a Norwegian Light Museum after a network model. A joint committee asks that further work on a lighthouse museum be based on the cooperation already established between the Coastal Directorate and the Light Museum Working Group. Finally, I would like to commend the work done by the Ministry of Fisheries to find the location of the Loran C system as a future navigation system. Important work is being done in the NELS Committee to provide a broad knowledge base for the final decisions to be taken. It is therefore important, from the Christian People's Party's point of view, that the operation of the Loran C system, among other things. in Bø, to be continued until final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e896	This government would like to present its own efforts as historical: never has it been so much invested, and never has the will been so great. It is to be cleaned up in the misery of the past, and a bright picture of the future is to be drawn. No matter how many times this story is told, it doesn't necessarily become more true. I don't think a lot of academic education is needed to see that the government's transport policy is a coherent set of promises. This government may not see it, but for others it's obvious. National transport plan is history. We have arrears on most of the promises, and in sum we note that the estimated appropriations for both the road and the railway have now reached a deficit of almost NOK 2.7 billion. The government promised to bet. The government would take care of public transport – and we have heard in the debate so far today that they think they have. There were few representatives from the Government who tried to travel collectively, I suppose, this morning. The temperature was between 10 and 13 minus degrees, and I think it would be difficult to make people take the wave for the Government today early. It was the same exercise, the same sport, just colder, to wait for set departures, wait for the delays and listen to the random messages that came. Public transport in Oslo and the government's bet on Oslo got their answer with great clarity today. There is no lack of promises, there is no lack of words, but there is a lack of money. There is a lack of money not only in 2003, because if the government does not want anything more than words, there will be a lack of money in 2004, 2005 and 2006. That's the starting point that tells us a little bit about the challenges. It's on this side of the track that we want the government to also receive to be located, and not look for arenas that are just for them. This government has chosen a compromise with the Progress Party in the budget. I don't moralize about that. There they get to do what they want, but at least we get to look at the consequences. What becomes strange in many ways, at a time when there is a lack of money, and where a priority is required, is that there is money for action that no one has asked questions about. In any case, we have not heard from others in the Committee on Transport that there was a need for $5 million. kr to Fauske center. I have not heard anything about the need for 25 million. kr to Uppland for Rv 33. I'm recording that in the case of E16 Eye–Borlaug, the department says that here we don't need money, but it's going to waste 10 million. kr after them in order to reach a compromise. This is unprofessional, this is revisitable, this is dangerous and gives a bad warning about how to deal with a difficult budget area that traffic represents. So this government, and especially the Right, has been willing to compromise to get the Advance Party on the team and create uncertainty around Bjørvika. To cut $10 million. kr in funds for the start-up of a tunnel is not just a matter of limiting a sum of money. It's giving a notice that here we might be at risk of postponement. There is a great deal of uncertainty in the environment that we may now face a one-year postponement. This is and should not be a simple matter for the Right to take with them in their cultural baggage when they go out and talk to the voters. So finally, something that I think is an important matter – I feel almost like Cato in the Roman Senate – and that is something that should be repeated often in this House: otherwise, I believe that something has to be done in the Groruddalen in Oslo. This government promised Groruddalen a lot. This government has not delivered anything to the Groruddalen. There are still 130,000 people living in the Grorud Valley, and in many places it is an experience of being in a garbage dump. This government should also take responsibility for the Groruddalen. The Grorud valley also requires its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e909	The president was for a moment afraid the representative would say that the Groruddalen had to be burned, but that was not the way it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e912	The government has taken the lead and is also in the process of changing Norway. This is reflected in the various trade budgets. The need for restructuring and efficiency has led to the need for more parties to move forward, and numerous remarks in the budgetary positions make this clear. Most of this slowed down in the last year’s budgetary process for 2002. Further information can also be found on today's meeting map. The model of a public limited liability company and its related exposure to competition has forced itself into the transport sector. In 2003, we will receive several national road sections for tenders. In 2004, we also receive tenders for some test sections on the railway track. Several express buses are subsequently taken part in the competition for passenger services. Competition shall also reach the Road Service Production Department. The department of production of the coastal works is exposed to competition and the majority points to the model of a limited liability company as the current form of organisation here as well. Conversion and relocation are processes that we have to accept — short-term — require resources that would normally go to daily production. In the long term, however, there is a clear gain from the current changes. For the Coastal Works, it is particularly gratifying this year to see a rise in the allocation of the fairway and also the grant to fishing ports. There's a reason to mention that in the Coastal Agency's budget, 30 million are allocated. to complete the establishment of the AIS, a system for the identification and monitoring of ships, thereby improving maritime safety and traffic control in maritime areas. The Coastal Agency is now also entrusted with the responsibility for state preparedness for acute pollution, and the associated funds are transferred from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for the presentation of all fairway projects. The City of the Ship Tunnel is a future project which has also been given a gap this year in both the Government's budget proposals and the Committee's position. The figures in the budget have been interpreted differently. In its comments in the position, the majority of the committees have maintained their annual progress and feedback on the preparations, thereby providing the best possible basis for future decision-making. Of course, coastal states will not settle down just with improved fairways. Road standards are also a crucial framework for the population and for a competitive business. It is very gratifying that the budget agreement gave 150 million. extra NOK for road construction. Additional 10 million. kr from the planning process in Bjørvika refers to clear premises for previous decisions. This brings us a little step in the direction of closer goal achievement outside the capital. For my county, the budget agreement has provided a total of 15 million. kr to a dead end and ready-to-fall parcel of row 620. I fully agree with the adjustment note about the rational and efficient operation of the current installations. However, urgent measures to ensure the availability of old marginal projects may force themselves. Row 620 is such a measure. With appropriations in 2003, we will be more than half-complete with the extremely poor parcel, and the commitments for the future budget are, of course, very minimal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e931	Traffic is about making life easier for people – in all parts of the country. In our major cities, the main challenge is to improve public transport by road and on the road for health and the environment. In addition to the country, the challenge is better accessibility and shorter travel time for people and businesses. In the transport sector as a whole, and in particular on the main road network, we need to use resources to increase road safety so that fewer people die and are seriously injured in traffic. The main issue of this budget for transport and the Government is to contribute to achieving these objectives within the framework of a comprehensive, tight government budget that dampens the pressure on interest rates, exchange rates and jobs. I am therefore pleased that the budget as a whole has been supported by the Storting through this budgetary position. I would like to congratulate the Committee on the good and thorough work it has done on the budget. I would also like to pay tribute to the Progress Party in particular for taking co-responsibility for obtaining a majority for an overall budget framework. The agreement of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left with the Advance Party involves increased appropriations for road projects which mean much too affordable and road safety, while maintaining the collective effort of the Cooperation Government as a whole. Next year, there will be close to SEK 8.3 billion for public transport measures. That's an increase of 7.7 pst. Or almost 600 million. kr, compared to this year. In a tight budget, therefore, we have achieved significant growth in collective action, and it is targeted at where it is most needed, in order to enhance the accessibility and user-friendliness of public transport in the major urban areas. Within the road budget, we set nearly 800 million. kr earmarked for public transport: for the development of collective fields, intersection priorities, terminals and holding sites, to speed up the upgrading and upgrading of the Oslo T-Bahn, yes, simply to improve the efficiency and reliability of the bus and track. Nearly NOK 6 billion will be spent on the railway next year. Apart from the extraordinary promise of the expansion of the Gardermoban, this is a historically high level – and above 5 pst. more than this year. We are increasing the appropriations for both investment and maintenance on the railway. We're going to start planning a new double track between Sandnes and Stavanger, and a new Lysaker station. We are increasing the rate of the largest construction project in mainland Norway: 900 million. kr is set next year for new double track on the rail between Sandvika and Asker, a bottleneck for large parts of the train traffic. The transfer to NSB is increased by nearly 100 million. kr, so that 36 new local train sets can be installed in the vicinity of the major cities. And we grant more than any government in the past to collective discounts for young people and students. So we lower the prices for future collective users and make everyday life a little bit easier for many students. For me and the Cooperative Government, it is essential that the budget for transport has a much clearer collective profile than the budget of previous governments. The 2003 budget has such a profile. The treatment of the budget in Stortinget has led to an increase of 150 million in the road budget. kr in relation to the government’s proposal, from just under 11.4 billion kroner to just under 11.6 billion kroner. The Road Budget increases the commitment to road safety and district measures such as racial protection and permanent coverage on all national roads. In addition, the Government has prioritised increased appropriations for the maintenance of the road network and the rational implementation of road installations already under way. I am pleased that we have received a strong increase in the breed protection effort on next year's budget. In line with the majority's comment, in the next state budget, I want to make visible the funds that go directly to racial protection in a separate item. The budget agreement at Stortinget also involves the launch of new projects in addition to those where the Government provided for start-up appropriations in 2003. This means, among other things: that, until next year, we can start the work of completing Lofast in Northern Ireland. In addition, the E18 through Østfold and Rv 653 Eiksund link secured start-up appropriations in 2003. I would like to remind you here that the start of these three projects gives a commitment to further budgets of the order of 2 to 2.5 billion kroner. This provides strong leadership, and will be a challenge to tackle so that we do not come back in a situation of rational plant operation, and in the worst case that installations need to be stopped. The budget proposes an extension of the main road network. This will provide better opportunities for coordinating efforts on important cross-border routes. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposal, but at the same time I note that the support is somewhat reserved. The establishment of production activities in the state road network as a limited liability company enables us to provide full competition for the operation, maintenance and construction of the road network. Combined with the reorganization of the management part, this improves the overall use of resources. It has been important for the Government that this can be done properly for the employees. I am pleased that the parties that were critical of procedure and progress in ours believe that the process has been intense but tidy in retrospect. The government made proposals on Friday for increased equity to the Post and NSB to help address the consequences of increased payments under the State Pension Fund pension schemes. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Swedish Aviation Agency is now reviewing its obligations in the State Pension Fund. We'll get closer to aviation later today. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the negative traffic trends in aviation are turning around. It is partly linked to the establishment of a new domestic flight offer. This may indicate that the increased competition, to which the Government attaches great importance, and the removal of the airline passenger fee from 1 April of this year, have worked positively. I would also like to stress that the new aviation safety regulations that it is working with in the EU as a result of last year's terrorist actions could incur considerable additional costs for aviation in all European countries. Norway is in a special situation because we have many regional airports where we can now be required to work up the same level of security against terrorism as at the major international airports, at the costs of which questions can be asked about whether we can defend the equivalent level of exclusion in greater security. I am therefore keen to explore with the EU the possibilities for measures that provide greater flexibility to adapt safety requirements to Norwegian conditions. I also note that the Committee in its own configuration supports the Government's proposal to provide a clear signal for the further planning of the Ryfylkepaket and to transfer the management of the ownership of the Flytrain from the NSB to the Ministry of Transport. I remember the emphasis of the majority of the committee on taking care of the priority of the Flytrain. Of course, in the event of a lack of capacity, balances would have to be made with the NSB’s normal offer. In our opinion, such a system will not conflict with EU policies in this area. Finally, I would like to say that 2003 will be a very exciting year for transport policy. Not only because we have then adopted a well-balanced transport budget, but also because next year we will have a series of reforms that governments have adopted during the year that we now have behind us: the competitive deployment of road production, new AS in the Road Administration and the Aviation Administration, new and decentralised organisation of road management and ownership change for the Flytrain and BaneTele – just to name a few. All these decisions are important in themselves — but they are implementation that really matters to users. I therefore look forward to continuing with full pressure in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e974	I have noticed that the debate in the Chamber and, to the extent that the Committee's proceedings this year have been somewhat more peaceful than last year and a little more friendly in that the ideological divides are becoming increasingly thicker and clearer, and that it is the right side that also wins the Government. I'm not so sure that the Left is familiar with all of this, nor that one should cooperate with the Progress Party to achieve the so-called big effort on public transport. It'll probably be even worse in the future than it looks this year. So my claim is that at least the party left of this field must have chosen the wrong partners. Then I want to remind the Council of State of something that has been a subject in several contexts, that is, taking the plural seriously. There are still multiple comments where the government party is not included. If not taken seriously, there is a risk of a worse climate and more decisions being taken in such a case. It might be a good idea to respond to the multiple requests in this room, and not just ignore it. So I'd like to ask the Council of State why the government doesn't want to kick off a OPS project for the freight terminal on the Jærban, too, which is the only logical consequence of the answer department itself has given. For every day that goes before we get a new proposal on this, we lose progress, so we're already in arrears. It would have been quite a trick: it's allowed to turn itself so late in a process. Then I have some questions relating to the Flytrain. Can you sell the flight distance priority? If not, how value can be set to 412 million. kr if it cannot be sold? And point three: the Council of State said that the Ministry's assessment was that proposal II was not contrary to the EEA Agreement. NSB says the opposite. Is it entirely certain that it does not conflict with the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e985	I am very pleased to sit in this government. As the Council of State, I expect to be allowed to join in and present a budget that takes into account both districts and the environment through the efforts we make, both in terms of road solutions, in terms of collective overall and in terms of rail. I can therefore only say that the budget we have put forward, and the result we have today, is in line with the policy of the Left very much. So to the question of whether I'm not interested in majority comments from the committee here in the Stortinget. I just want to stress that I am very concerned about the majority comments of the committee, and to the extent that it is possible to follow it further up, I will come back to both previous comments and those that are now. In the case of OPS on the Railway, I am absolutely positive about going through the possibilities of such a project, where the freight terminal at Ganddal is seen in the context. There is clearly a demanding OPS project on the railway, and there will be a different type of OPS project than what we are looking at on the road. So it's going to take us a little bit of time to go through what you have, what models are there, and what we can get out of it. I still believe that it is worth going through and looking at the possibilities and what we can do, and not least how fast we can get it to. With regard to priority on the Fly train, it will also be possible within the EU legislation, and regulations have now been drawn up to take account of it, where it is provided for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e996	I thank you for the rose, also from the left. So now the Advance Party has received praise from the Left and the Christian People's Party. In addition, we have received enquiries from several representatives who are very pleased with the angle the Progress Party has created in the budget, with more money on the way. Now it's actually just missing that the Right comes with some praise to the Advance Party, so we can sit down to talk government! There have been pleasant tones in budgetary negotiations. But the most important thing is missing, and it was the Council of State on: road safety. What is obtained at a higher level of fines and more stringent controls are emergency solutions. The real solution for road safety is to build more and better roads. We've seen that in Akershus, where the statistics of fatalities and injuries have fallen dramatically after the opening of a new four-field road. We see the same thing in Westfold. Speed limit increases, and the number of hard damage and accidents goes down dramatically. That's the best proof we have that building a new road is useful. In this budget, the Government proposes to use nearly half a billion dollars for the downsizing of the Road Administration. If you had added an extra 1 billion kroner to the construction of the road, you could actually have these people at work. In addition, we had also built several roads in this country. They might have got a job in a company other than the Road Service Production Department. But they had been working, and they had produced something, instead of in the future raising unemployment benefits or going on restructuring measures. My question is: Wouldn't it be better to give a billion dollars more to build a road instead of sending 1,000 men out to do nothing – with full payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1005	I fully agree that road safety is important. That is why we have placed great emphasis on road safety in the device in the budget, that, in relation to operation and maintenance, we place great emphasis on overall road safety, what governs us in what we do, also in relation to investment projects. As you know, it has not been long since the adoption of a redundancy of E6 in Eastfold here in this Chamber, mainly on the basis of the road safety challenges we have. So it's clear that we need an effort in road safety, in many areas. By this weekend at the latest, we have heard about tragic accidents on Norwegian roads due to different conditions, partly because the roads are not good enough. Yes, we have a big task in terms of improving roads. However, there are a wide range of measures that need to be taken in relation to driver training, tightening control, fines, dot loads, etc. We need to make a broad effort in terms of road safety. That's what we add up to. With regard to the use of money, we want to have more efficiency in the transport sector so that we can get more road and public transport for the money we spit into the system. That's why we're doing what we're doing on the road side, just to make sure that in the long run we get more money left for the money we spend there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1014	I would like to say to the Council of State: thank you for your commitment to public transport. It's real, and I see she's on! But it's not small challenges she's going to deal with, either, in the government she's sitting in. In Westfold, traffic on new E18 has increased by 11 pst in the last year and the railway has lost many passengers. We are also facing new, large motorway expansions in Eastfold, where there is also a lack of infrastructure investment on the railways. The chairman of the Committee said earlier today in a way that the Council of State was the second best Minister of Road Transport this country has seen since Kjell Opseth. I must say that I fear that she is then the second worst railway council since Kjell Opseth! My question is: what does the Council of State intend to do in parallel with these highways to ensure that the railway does not lose its shares when these new roads arrive? I am heard to say that this budget is on public transport. But how are you going to explain it to people next year, when it comes to route cuts and the offer gets more expensive? Then it must be at least that we have invested too little. In the collective communication we agreed on incentive schemes, and we thought we would get some money for them in this year's budget. We did – 2 million. kr! There might have been two zeros in relation to the expectations that were in the collective societies. In the end, this competition with the Flytrain, where the Council of State is to own two limited liability companies: Who is holding the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1030	There were unlikely many interesting questions that I would like to spend a long time answering. I'll try to do the last one first. With regard to the competition between the Fly train and the NSB, this is not where we start the big competition. It's going to be on the paths where we're out buying services. So to the extent that there is competition here, it must be reasonably controlled. I'll be able to eat both lobbying and lobbying lunches in this respect. So we go to the crossroads. It strikes me many times: what function does the propaganda that I feel sometimes run for public transport? Studies show that people don't know what prices we have on public transport, they don't know the relative price relationship between public transport and the car, they don't know what offers we have. And with that black paint of the public transport, I understand that people don't dare to travel collectively. I'm deeply concerned about that. I actually want people to choose to travel collectively, and then I want to go out and say, "We have good deals." Use them now, so that we can continue to use them in the future. When I then hear that we get the worst collective offer ever with this budget, I can't understand it, with the solid effort that both the Government and the Stortinget are now putting up. It might have been tempting to remind you of what the representative Heikki Holmås said on the radio in October, that some of the things that made it difficult to get enthusiasts around the country, was that the Storting went in and ear-marked and legalized so much that it was uninteresting to engage with local politics. We have to work for a good collective effort from the central point of view. It requires that there is an effort from the affected counties and big cities for us to succeed. I invite counties, municipalities and other politicians to that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1043	In the 2003 draft budget, the Government proposes that several national roads or parts of national roads be designated as tribal roads. The argument for the transformation is that it is inconceivable to develop the corridor mindset in the transport plan work even more strongly. The center party is not indisputable in such an argument, but there is reason to ask whether it makes sense to expand the backbone network without changing the level of the permissions. Half-way during the planning period is the rate of filling of 39,8 pst. for the tribal roads. How will the government follow up the extension of the tribal network? In reply to the reply from the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt, the Council of State said that it was busy with comments from a number of the Committee. I perceive the council so that she would pay attention to such comments. Last year, a majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre asked for transitional arrangements for large county road systems to be implemented. In the draft budget this year, the Council of State and the Government propose that transitional arrangements be scrapped. How does this fit in with emphasis on plural comments from the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1052	As far as tribal routes are concerned, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal. But as I said in my post, I notice that the support is something reserved. I would therefore like to make it clear that it is not that we want to implement an extension of the tribal road network without at the same time increasing the allocation of tribal roads. The revision of the national transport plan will make changes to the framework distribution taking into account the extension of the main road network. Just because of the importance of the main road network, especially for road safety and business transport needs, I am concerned that upgrading the main road network needs to be given a higher priority in the coming years. With regard to the comments of the majority in relation to the transitional arrangements for large-scale roadside projects, it is true that this has been done in the past. In St. prp. No 1 is shown, among other things. on the question of the two-tier distribution of the road network; it was requested that these transitional arrangements be seen in the context of the two-tiered road network. It happened last year. Now the government doesn't go into this division. As a result, the question arises again. Reference may be made to several projects, in several counties, where priority has been given to these pathways within the boundaries of the county. In the case of the Jondal Tunnel, there are level clarifications that need to be made before we can proceed with clarifications of costs and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1061	I also don't want to participate among those who at any cost are going to criticise public transport and describe reality more miserable than what you have to do, but I belong to those who want to take reality seriously. I had so much to say in my previous post. Public transport is simply a bad thing. Then you can try to describe it differently, so that people can enjoy the misery. But it's actually hard if you use public transport every day, and not as a random exercise. This is what is the starting point when several representatives in the Chamber and many in the Committee call for subsidies from the State to enable better development of public transport – not to reduce the responsibilities of municipalities, not to reduce the responsibilities of the counties, but to provide better opportunities. That's where we stand today, and that's where we're forced to make some choices. So this is that tight budgets require priority. I mentioned in my previous post: $25 million. NOK 5 million for Uppland. kr to Faauske, 10 mill. SEK to Øye-Borlaug. I am suddenly unsure whether these are good measures for, among other things. traffic safety But what I know is that the money for the Drammen package is money for road safety. In relation to the thinking expressed by the Council of State, the question is, Do you care not about the Drama package? Are there other projects on the outskirts that are more important?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1070	It is tempting to comment on Fauske, but I will not comment too much. For those who have grown up in the Holy Place, Fauske districts are not. So for those who are concerned with district policy, there's a lot that can be said. We are very concerned with road safety. In a total budget of between 11 and 12 billion kroner to road, we are giving very high priority to road safety. We're busy with the Drama Package. We are concerned with road safety, whether it is E18 in Westfold, E6 in Eastfold or where it should be. That is very important to us. Let me also make a few comments – I should have done it instead – in relation to the line from SV on building roads compared to railway: I belong to a party – and not least, a government – that wants to have respect for man, and when man is exposed to a health threat whether it is in the form of road safety or it is in the form of an environment, we must take both parts seriously. That is why we are going into and building roads where the road safety picture is very serious. And we're going to keep doing that. So that there's no commitment to public transport. We're in with nearly SEK 8.3 billion for public transport. That's an increase of 7.7 pst. Or almost 600 million. kr. If it's not a bet in a tight budget, I don't know. This is an important bet. It's important to look at what we're doing to get on with it. What are the measures we are implementing? We need to go to the best and most effective measures. It is not certain that public transport will be so wonderfully much better if we increase subsidies with a trick. We have to look at what we're doing. We have to look at where we set up our measures to maximise our profits. It should be attractive for people to travel by public transport. Also in a day with negative 12 degrees outside, we want it to be attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1086	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1089	After two years with the transport plan, the image is not particularly pleasant to read when it comes to railway investment, although the Council of State says it is satisfied. One has been increased in addition to the purchase of train services, services that only go to local trains and intercity sections, but investment is very low. The reduction in relation to the national transport plan is, as many people have said, approximately DKK 1.3 billion. After two years, the target achievement is only 43.5 pst. The follow-up is so large that the plan is not at risk, and confusion, and in the next round of renovation, the result will be if this continues. Right-dominated governments never have our train friends. Rail passages that will soon have a hundredth anniversary are not good enough to get the effect out of the new tilt train material. The powertrains are almost anti-variable – yes, so old that no one even gets spare parts. The result is that the train running is subject to dispensation from the Railway Authority, with reduced speed, delays and negative publicity – and in the next round of customer flight. In 2006, other train companies will compete with NSB AS to run trains on the same routes and the same route. After the Workers' Party's view, this is starting at the wrong end. We should all have a common interest in renewing and improving the infrastructure, so that we can have the best representations to get the most interested in competing for the track, both on the passenger and freight sides. I fear complicated supply announcements and growing supervision – because there is clearly a new growth industry – to take care of security. We should fix the relationship in such a way that one can move more goods from path to path. The desire and need for all kinds of infrastructure measures across the country is enormous. But with as little population base as we have, with as many natural obstacles as we have, and with all the seasons, we have to stick our fingers in the ground and make some choices. Therefore, the railway where it goes, should be upgraded and renewed to the standard of today and tomorrow. Extrusion of tunnels on Bergensbanen is a good example in this way. It helps to get semi-trailers on track. In a few years, international long-distance transport will be much more widespread than it is today. We see how they bet on trains in Sweden. We hear what they're discussing in the EU. Norway is at least not the best in the class in this area - maybe the opposite. One example is how the multiplicity will solve the development of freight terminals on Ganddal. All the colleges think that the expansion must come before double tracks on the track. It's not like that. The working party would do so in that order: the freight terminal first and double-track afterwards, all through OPS solutions. We were going to have about five million. kr for freight terminal planning. At the level of the railway currently in operation, it is unlikely that many years will e.g. be allowed to take advantage of the investments made. on the Westfold Railway. Until 2010, the annual promises will largely go to the development of double-track Skøyen-Asker. Norwegian railway development is not exactly on track. So a little bit about the Fly train. Today, the Flytoget is a 100 pst subsidiary. owned by NSB AS. The government, with the support of the Progress Party, is given multiples to move ownership to the Ministry of Transport. The working party is very sceptical about this ownership. The Ministry of Transport is saying that as the owner of two competing companies, something that doesn't seem logical, even though the Council of State has given us a point of view today that can make us a little more calm. The flight has been a success. There is currently a priority on the track, which is not automatic in the future. In any event, it may not be possible for the priority to be given to a possible sale of the company if it is intended to be reorganised. The government has subordinated liabilities to 6.7 billion taxpayers. The Labour Party believes these are values that should not be sold, cork to Norwegian or foreign companies. The Labour Party believes here must look closely at the implementation of the EU's new rail package I, which will come into force from 15 March 2003. Priority train running for those companies carrying passengers to the main aerodrome must be the target. I see that the time is running out, but at least I'll say in the end that I really want II to be turned into a transmission proposal, so that we don't do anything hasty here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1110	On the Government's habits there are many blank buttons. The button for environmental and natural use is the clearest one. Internationally and nationally, the Government has gained recognition for environmental work. Efforts in this area are not least managed by button founders in the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Transport. In a very tight budget, the Government prioritises public transport. $8.3 billion is invested in collective schemes, up 7.7 pst. from this year onwards, almost 600 million. kr. Thus, the Sem Declaration is the objective of public transport on a regular basis. On the Government's menu there are delicatessens for any intrusive collective gourmet: For 2003, the NSB will receive DKK 1,386 billion, up to 6,8 p.m. The railway works will receive DKK 4,438 billion, up to 4.6 p.m. The government will focus on infrastructure maintenance and meet the 2002–2005 action plan.On the investment side, we will be able to enjoy the expansion of the route between Skøyen and Asker.We will spend SEK 136 million. kr in the case of school and student discounts on public travel in all counties. It is granted 780 million. kr for collective fields, intersection priorities, terminals and holding places in the major cities. This gives an increase of 240 million. kr compared to 2002. Oslo, of course, would have more, but we're going to have 350 million, after all. kr for upgrading and upgrading the T-Bahn. It may not be so bad. A clear priority has also been given to air traffic. Those living in scattered rural areas benefit from allocations to regional airports, which increase from 107 million. NOK 262 million. kr. In other words, the increase is a total of 145 pst. and is part of the Government’s regional policy initiative. In a difficult time for aviation, the government has strengthened competition and prices have fallen. Government purchasing agreements, cancellation of passenger fees and domestic award credits have given and will deliver results. The resistance of the Workers’ Party and the SV to bringing together four adjacent aerodromes to two and resistance to the removal of passenger charges has not helped to facilitate the situation of Norwegian air transport, nor has it strengthened the vitality of regional airports in the districts. A few years ago, a silver arrow pierced Norwegian public transport. As an extension of the body, it flies through Akershus' green meadows and between Oslo's masonry. The flight has become the jewel of the collective crown. Through service, frequency, punctuality, speed and modernity, it has the potential to set new standards in Norwegian transport. Thus, the train also represents proper natural use and promotion. The flight should be a model for others and, as such, it should be cultivated as an independent entity, as a public limited liability company under the Ministry. When the network is then opened up to competition, the flight could appear to be an exciting competitor on the road and to the NSB. We can model a broad majority to ensure the flight priority for the entire route Asker-Gardermoen. This suggests that more than the government parties share my enthusiasm for the track and for the Silver Arrow function as an environmental carrier and as a passenger transporter. The government's environmental work has already been traced. The Bondevik Ministry is best at nature use and best at action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1153	In Hedmark we are dependent on good roads, and that is not because we are not happy in trains. I'm actually very happy in the train, but that's how trains are not a realistic alternative. We need the road both for the private car driver and not least for business. I'm happy that the majority now allocates $5 million. NOK to continue work on Rv 2. The downturn was great for many when the government presented its draft budget without a single proposal on money to Rv 2. In its alternative budget, the Workers' Party proposed spending 5 million. I'm going to go to Rv 2. I owe my colleagues in the Workers' Party's fraction on the Committee on Transport and Tourism a great deal of thanks for launching this amount, which will help. It is good that the Labour Party's proposals now have a majority so that work can continue. Parts of Rv 2 have been completed, so it is important in my opinion that the work continues so that Rv 2 is repaired continuously, and that the work continues in the area around Kongswinger. Like I said, I'm happy on the train. That's why it was good that the Workers' Party proposed to spend 45 million in its alternative budget. kr for crossing tracks on Molycka. This had meant a strong improvement of the railway in Hedmark, which had also given good results to the business community, and perhaps the business community in Hedmark could have taken the railway more actively into use. Unfortunately, we did not get any support for this, because the government parties made an agreement with the Progress Party. But NSB AS also has a responsibility to be an attractive means of transport for business. Today it may appear that NSB prices are out of the market. I can give the following example: Moelven Building Module AS will transport 1,078 houses from Moelv to Trondheim. The price is 1.6 million. kr higher by rail than by lorry. In addition, a look at the environmental side should be taken. So because of the price, there must be 539 trucks with trailers along the line from Moelv and through Trondheim City. Too many in the timber and sawmilling industry in the Baltic Valley are also important. The NSB must be a competitive and good alternative to the truck. The Minister of Transport must take a closer look at this. In the government's draft budget, there was no proposal to continue the diesel tax reimbursement scheme for the express buses. It is good that in the setting it is proposed to grant 30 million. NOK to this. The express buses are an important means of transport for the districts. For District Norway, taxis are also an important part of the transport. I would say that for the districts, the taxis are the same as the tram in Oslo: part of the collective offer. Therefore, it is important that the taxis are provided with good framework conditions and that the taxi industry becomes more attractive than it is today. In connection with Storting's treatment of the Transport Act, it was announced that there would be a separate case for Stortinget about the taxi industry. I would strongly urge the Minister of Transport to take the taxi industry seriously and cooperate with the industry, so that when the matter comes to Stortinget, there will be proposals for improvements. As many people know, I am concerned that young people will be given the opportunity to do motorsports. Since I am no longer on the Committee on Transport, it is not that easy to follow up on this. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Minister for Transport that motorsport is important, and that it can help to get young people off in controlled forms and not on the road. A motor sport effort could help reduce the number of accidents among young people. It is therefore important for the Minister of Transport to focus on this in the context of the work on future budgets and, above all, on the forthcoming roll-outs of the national transport plan. Finally, in the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party, action has been taken to facilitate the import of cars produced for the US market. Well, that might be a good idea, because American cars are very important to many people. But that's what I'm asking, which the Minister of Transport can probably give me an answer. The comments refer both to Norway’s international obligations and to the fact that an amendment to the rules on imports of American cars does not break the EEA Agreement. [[President clubs]] Then my question becomes Perhaps I should ask that question later, but it is actually such that I hope that the Minister for Transport will clarify what needs to be done, or whether it is possible to fulfil this part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1174	It was an elegant extension of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1178	Of the Ministry of Fisheries's budget of a total of SEK 2.44 billion, 46 goes pst. – 1 147000000 – for infrastructure of major importance for marine and maritime activities. It is good district policy, industrial development and value creation. Ports and maritime transport have a natural role in a well-developed and efficient transport network. There are roads and railways in blue geography. In the Sem Declaration, the Government states that it will facilitate maritime transport to increase its market share, especially in freight transport, both for cost and environmental reasons and to facilitate the capacity problems of the road system. It is also fully in line with EU priorities to address transport challenges in Europe. In the field of maritime transport, the Government will give priority to actions that contribute to increasing safety. Investment in maritime infrastructure and services shall also contribute to enhancing the competitive advantage of maritime transport. The 2003 budget represents a concrete commitment to safe maritime transport. In the current year's budget, 2002, it is set at 10 million. kr to initiate the development of AIS, so-called Automatic Identification System. It will be used for the monitoring of coastal shipping. The 2003 budget of the Ministry allocates 30 million. kr to complete the development of the AIS. These investments must also be seen in the context of an extension of the territorial waters and the introduction of the required shipping chief. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the Government's priorities and proposals for appropriations in this area. In addition, it is proposed to continue much of the investment from recent years to the observation of traffic controllers. The initiative includes both maintenance and new investments. Speedboat and ro-ro passenger boat traffic controllers are of particular importance and are set at 25 million. kr. in 2003. As part of strengthening the safety performance of shipping, the Government proposes that the State’s readiness to provide emergency pollution is transferred from SFT to the Coastal Works from 1 January 2003. The SFT shall continue to carry out its ongoing administrative tasks, such as setting requirements, monitoring, response and reporting on the state of the environment. On its side, after the new division of responsibilities, the coastal works shall have operational responsibilities. The coastal facility has a wide presence on several coastal sites throughout the 24 hours. At the same time, the staff of the Coastal Agency have broad maritime competence, and the department has considerable resources in the form of vessels, machinery, traffic centres, etc. The transfer to the Coastal Works may therefore facilitate the strengthening and better coordination of the preparedness for acute contamination. In this way, there is also an element of the Government’s commitment to safe navigation at sea and along the coast and the environment. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre express concern in the budget setting that the Fedje traffic centre should be built down. In this context, I can refer to the answer I sent on 25 November to the representative of the wholesaler Bastisen, who is referred to in the vote. Here it appears that we are aiming at a change of delivery of lots – and I stress that there is a change of delivery of lots, and nothing else – that is, among other things. implies the transfer of the batch release on Fedje to Wititsøy. However, it would not be appropriate to change the manning of the traffic control centres until adequate solutions for traffic management are found. In other words, of course, the conversion of the pilotage should not lead to a reduction in the safety level at the traffic centres. I also note that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party in the budget configuration express concern that it is being cut in the monitoring of important coastal areas. However, I can inform you that the centralisation of the pilot project does not reduce monitoring. The reality is that the Government’s proposal for the development of the AIS means that monitoring across the coast is actually improved. It shall also be mentioned that the conversion of the unloading service is part of a series of measures undertaken to reduce the level of costs of the unloading service, while ensuring safety. An efficient unloading service is a prerequisite for facilitating competitive and safe maritime transport. An important prerequisite for promoting maritime transport is well-functioning ports. As a follow-up to the National Transport Plan, the Ministry has launched a port project, the aim of which is to promote a new and forward-looking port structure, with a network of hub ports, to be part of an intermodal transport system. The results of these works shall be included in the base material of the national transport plan for 2006-2015. In addition, we have launched a process for Oslofjorden. The Viking port company is established and an investigation shall be completed and coordinated with the transport plan. Moreover, since the representative Kenneth Svendsen called for praise to the Advance Party from the Right, I can inform you that I join in the praise that has come from the Left and Christian People's Party in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1207	It's nice in these Christmas seasons that people can enjoy each other. You have to be liberal. With a lot of brilliance, you get rid of gifts as well, and you can get out of it cheaply. It can be important in a political context like this. Now I won't talk about it. In the context of the Coastal Plant, there is a relatively convenient situation. There are some areas of uncertainty, but a relatively convenient situation. I want to take a concern, and then another matter that I think we are very much in agreement about, and that bears witness to some progress from the last time we dealt with the budget. The concern is the transformation and, where appropriate, the change in ownership of the Swedish Coastal Plant Production. Here we experience that the principle becomes more important than the practical reality. There is something to do with facilitating the efficiency of the Coastal Plant Production, and to ensure that the work they are required to do is optimised. Instead of creating peace in this organisation, we roll on and roll on new measures, which we have seen in other state businesses, which do not establish the loyalty and willingness to cooperate that is a prerequisite for getting the most out of what is going on. Instead, uncertainty is created, which destroys for a good result. The good in this context is the Galileo programme for navigation systems. It is important to stress that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the improvement of Norway’s position with regard to the Galileo programme and that what has happened with regard to Galileo Joint Undertaking, as it is called, does not contribute to our role being unexplained for too long. I think it is important and right to say that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that this is industrially and researchally important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1218	The concern expressed by the representative Frönn about the future organization of the Coastal Plant, I don't think there's any big reason to have. But at least we agree that we want to streamline and get the most efficient port and the most efficient fairway and safety along the coast for each krone. I record that the employees of Kabelvåg earlier this fall were in the newspaper and said that the competition we are going to meet in the future is going to win, because we want to be the best, and we have competence. With such an adjustment in the Coastal Works staff and service production, I am sure that it will be a strong and good organisation. So it's up to us to find a way to organize this that makes us get efficiency gains out. We're going to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, as we also explain in the proposition, because we see that the management model is not necessarily the most appropriate form of connection for the Coastal Works, and so we've started an assessment of whether or not to organise it in a different way. But that's what we're going to get back to Stortinget with when that process is completed in the Government, and the Storing is going to be informed in an appropriate way. In the case of Galileo, the Government and the Council of State share the view expressed by the Committee, which the representative Froyn also provided for. This is an area in which we have to be absolutely involved and secure Norwegian positions, because it is important for several reasons, industrially, researchically and because it can be an appropriate tool in the context of navigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1225	The oil disaster off the coast of northern Spain, where an oil tank has fallen and the oil cargo is drifting ashore along the Spanish coast, makes a strong impression. This disaster reminds us of the situation that could arise on the Norwegian coast when oil tankers are about to begin to travel the coast from the Murmansk oil terminal. I noticed that the skipper on the Norwegian special ship who is now limping oil down there said to the NRK – I believe it was on Saturday – that we do not have better oil preparedness along the Norwegian coast than they do in Spain, and had this disaster happened outside the Lofoten, the same thing had happened here; we had been as helpless as they are down there. The Minister for Fisheries is now taking responsibility for the acute preparedness for coastal pollution. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries if we have an emergency response good enough to handle a disaster on the Norwegian coast with an oil tanker like what we have experienced outside northern Spain. It has been pointed out in the debate on the situation we can get into that we have too poor tug capacity in North Norway. It will take too long for a tugboat to reach a wrecked oil tanker. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries if he can comment on that claim as well. And if the claim is correct, will the Minister for Fisheries contribute to getting enough towing capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1232	Unfortunately, the oil disaster outside Spain illustrates the consequences of such accidents in a good or bad way — depending on how they are assessed. Such a disaster also calls for international interaction and cooperation to reduce the damage once it occurs. Therefore, Norwegian equipment and personnel are present according to the international obligations we have, and it will be useful experience for Norwegian personnel and also for Norwegian equipment to take with us when we may face such things in nearby areas. But the government has taken this seriously to the extent that we already presented a big message in March, 'Rent and Rich Seas', where we are just raising issues related to safety and preparedness for accidents, and that matter is being dealt with in the Storting. In addition, we report in the budget that we now want to move the acute pollution response from the SFT to the Coastal Plant. It's a term just based on the desire to top up the interaction between the different departments, a better coordination, like us, for example. So missing in connection with the John R accident. We are now fully financing the investments in the AIS, which must be an important element to ensure better monitoring and preparedness, we are now working on a comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea, and we are going to establish a traffic centre for North Norway. So concrete in relation to towing boat capacity. We have explained this in the main message 'Rent and rich seas'. Here we have a challenge in the future. It is clear that with the increased transport of oil going on along the coast of Russia, this is something the Government is taking seriously, and we have already taken action, as I have explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1239	I want to tie the line and ask my questions about a project that the Council of State has traveled around in many Western countries and talk about warmly – yes, many think he has spoken very warmly about it. But it was earlier. When we read the budget from the Ministry of Fisheries, it's hard to know what the Council of State basically means. The councils may have understood that I'm talking about the City Tunnel. I would like to refer to an interview that NRK Sogn and Fjordane had with Arnold Jacobsen, appointed in the Coastal Works, which was part of the group that produced the report on the City Ship Tunnel that was presented some years ago. He says straight out, "A little is said and tired." "I don't fully understand the idea," he says, referring to the way this project is described in the budget. And what he does, among other things, refers to, it is said that it was not guaranteed that it would be a speedboat route when the tunnel was finished. But as Arnold Jacobsen says: ‘...such guarantees have never been the task of the Coastal Works to come with.’ There is certainly not a shipping company that can establish or guarantee a route on a route requiring a tunnel until the decision on the tunnel has been made at least. Arnold Jacobsen also says to NRK Sogn and Fjordane – according to the print that I have – that he “means the report in the state budget is strange in the light of the fact that Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen has previously personally expressed that he is well pleased with the project”. So I ask briefly the question to the Minister for Fisheries: What is his view of the City Tunnel? Is that what the budget says, or is that what the Council of State has been traveling around and saying to people in Western countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1250	The views of the Council of State on the City Tunnel are both those of the budgetary position and those of the undersigned have been expressed. This is a big project. The pre-project has a cost framework of 871 million. kr, i.e. About 900 million. NOK converted in today's dollar value. It is such a big project that we want to see it in the context of the 2006-2015 National Transport Plan and in conjunction with the other transport infrastructure needs in the region. That means that of course this will be followed up. This is also the case with the majority of the committee's comments calling on the Government to carry out an external quality assurance of the project. We will do that, and this will be explained in the 2004 budget, as requested by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1257	The Coastal Station assumes the SFT's acute pollution response. We're happy with that. It is in line with the principle of sectoral responsibility in environmental policy. And I hope this is a sector that will be conscious of its responsibility. I think a majority here is very concerned that there is a new oil terminal in Murmansk, and that there should be oil tankers going through the Barents Sea along the Norwegian coast, an area that has not previously had a significant potential risk of oil pollution of the nature such oil tankers can represent. We're talking about allowing them to run almost halfway through the growing area of Norwegian Arctic cod, the main commercial fish stock we have. We're talking about driving outside some of the world's most beautiful and valuable bird mountains. It surprises me that, in connection with the operation of this terminal in the autumn, no additional measures have been put in place to follow these oil tanks. Nor have we seen any proposals for budgetary appropriations that take account of the substantial additional task that the increased potential threat posed by these oil tanks poses. That's why I want to challenge Ludvigsen and ask again: Is the sector conscious of its environmental responsibility? Do we have sufficient security regarding the transport of oil from Russia? And what kind of measures does he think we have that we didn't have in Spain?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1266	I am pleased that the SV and the Government have at least a common view of and a common interest in linking the acute preparedness and sectoral responsibility. That's what the government does through the grip we take from 1 January. It illustrates in a good way that we want to link the presence of the Coastal Plant, the crew and the equipment we have, closer to the preparedness. We want to achieve better coordination of the various departments and activities that are taking place along the coast, which in every accident are being connected, and which we have seen from the past have not always been as well coordinated. So this is so absolutely part of a process that we have also described in the big message 'Rent and Rich Seas', which I explained a little while ago. So the answer is that the sector is conscious of its responsibility. We're taking that in proportion. So the question is whether we have a good enough security. Then, of course, you can ask, what is good enough security? What happens in Spain shows that the consequences of an accident are dramatic. So you could ask, would it have been possible to avert it? Yes, that is what the EU is now trying to do, in the form of setting new requirements for shipping, among other things. to double bottoms in boats. So there are a number of measures, not only in terms of onshore preparedness, but also in terms of ensuring the quality of the ships that transport. The increased traffic taking place along the Norwegian coast makes it absolutely necessary at any time to assess whether we have sufficient security. We have that in the government's view, but things can always be done better. That is why we are now taking a number of measures. I have mentioned the AIS, and I have mentioned other measures that will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1275	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1279	Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Transport in case No. 1 and case No. 3 and 4. In the case of case No. 1 the Minister for Fisheries and other speakers have so far dealt with this with special quota arrangements. We must never forget that the Stortinget has ordered the Ministry of Fisheries to come forward with special quota arrangements and the aggregation of quotas for boats below 28 metres. It was the majority in this Chamber who instructed the Ministry of Fisheries to promote this proposal, but after strong pressure from the organisations, the Minister of Fisheries has withdrawn it for a year, which makes sense. What's even happier is that this has really become a matter of the Storting. Politicians have begun to take an interest in fisheries, because it turns out, when true, that this is money, it is money. It is Norway’s largest industry, whether more or less. That is, after all, Norway's largest export industry, when we ignore the oil. We are going to hear more from the Minister of Fisheries and the Ministry of Fisheries about these matters. With regard to the movement of the Coastal Works from Oslo to Ålesund, I have nothing against it, when it is true to say. But then we experience that the Ministry of Fisheries cuts down on the appropriations, I don't want to say exactly in crowns and ears, but in the old days we could afford to have a mooring stake in every bay and every port. They're gone. They're private time. We could afford to build moles, we could afford to build wells. We can't afford that anymore. We can't even afford to keep up with those moles. They're dissociating at the islands. It was under the Coast Guard. And when the Minister of Fisheries and one Council of State after another in the last period said here and admitted that they had full control of the oil pollution in the Barents Sea and off the coast of Norway, it is wrong. We don't have anything to do with oil pollution. We're free of that. Because once the state councils have gone in to demobilise the towing vessels on all the oil installations we have in the Norwegian economic zone, it's clear that we don't have anything. I have a picture in my office of an improved version of a boat that went under. I can tell you how it works. On board the standby by-ship adjacent to the oil installation, it is a bilge. On board that towing vessel and that supply boat there are usually 13 000 horse forces. In the davits on that supply boat it hangs a boat. It has a maximum of 130 horsepowers – compared to these 13 000 horsepowers on the main vessel! Everyone in this room, even if they're not a nutty, needs to understand that this is madness. I have since 1998 tried to get on board the supply boat that is located in the Sandness Lake – that is my neighboring town – and have participated in a real exercise out in the sea, and have not got it done. And we write 2002, almost 2003! Kvanli in Harstad has sent me a letter, and they're going to keep an exercise out in the sea for the next summer, in God's good weather. But what I'm looking forward to, it's seeing the ship's being dragged under. Because it will be. It has to be. So we don't own oil protection. Let it be established in this room that there is no oil protection. And what does the minister intend to do with that? We're sending oil lances to Spain. We send everything we have of oil protection equipment, which is otherwise poor, to take care of the ‘Prestige’ after the crash off the Spanish coast. What do we have left if an accident should happen to us? We have nothing. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the Gardermoban. We gave up $12.5 billion in the last time! Still, the Gardermoban goes 100 million. kr in deficit each year. At the same time, Esso tears down the signs and pumps in Hattfjelldal. There's seven miles to the nearest gas station, and here in this room we're going to pass laws that make it impossible for people living in the districts to take care of their interests. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1292	Yeah, we're used to that. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1297	In Buskerud there are many projects that it is desirable to do something about. But what is currently one of the most urgent, and what is most important to be implemented, is the Road Package Drama. It's important to Drammen City. But it is also important for the rest of the county, because this package seizes most of the appropriations for Buskerud. That is why we need to implement this as soon as possible. When the Stortinget joined the Road Package Drammen in the context of the 1994 budgetary procedure, there was a total cost framework of about NOK 2.7 billion. Later on, the sum increased by 60 pst. The financing of the Road Package Drammen was to be done by government appropriations plus user assistance. The user participation was to be done through the toll station at Kjellstad, and I can from all my life as a driver remember nothing but that the Lier boom has stood there. Nevertheless, we feel that when it comes to the problem, the prices and costs of the Drama package have increased so much that the user involvement is still insufficient. It's sad, to use some simple expression. But that also means that what it looks like at the moment is that we want to impose additional user input on the people of Buskeruds and Drammen to obtain the funds that are not on the table per. Today, despite the fact that the Lier boom has been standing and collecting funds for many, many years. I would like the Minister of Transport to reach, as it says in St.prp. No 1, coming back to this as a matter of its own, could find an opportunity to avoid getting toll station in the Drama again, to have user involvement that way. User involvement has been taking place over so long that it is unfortunate that people in Drammen and Buskerud have to contribute further. It is so serious, says the minister himself in what is presented from the ministry, that there are own comments on this in the staging proposition that goes on the exceedances of the Road Package Drammen, and not just on the Road Package Drammen, but generally on too poor planning and for poor implementation, or, to put it another way: in relation to the increases that occur along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1308	This is the day to send Christmas cards to the home state, and I will follow up my benchenabo Marthinsen. I also note that the Drammen Package does not receive as much money as they could to keep progressing after the revised agreement of 2000. The government's government's bill is $15 million. kr, and it makes possible a start in Krefting's street. The Labour Party has in its alternative budget plus the 20 million. Hardly, if the sum is 35 million. kr, then there was money to put the shovel in the ground. Most of it would go to basics. It is unlikely that much is missing, and it is almost surprising that the state council, which expresses such satisfaction, could not have found anything more to keep progress in the package. Then to my local road. In Hallingdal, state councils have received a lot of praise for the tribal status of Row 7 to Gol and Row 52 through Hemsedal. This means that the Council of State has taken seriously the traffic flows in the case of heavy goods vehicles to the east-west. When it comes to Rv7, it's another chapter. Until 2006 one shall examine its migration pattern and its tolerance. At the same time, a planning basis shall be provided for the possible construction of environmental tunnels. In the meantime, we shall have a winter open road, as today. By contrast, row 50, which is much less controversial, which has tunnels, which are ferries-free, and which before Opseth was the tribal route option, has restrictions on night-time closures and bans on column running. The government party is both happy and satisfied with this government proposal, with the reason that they take into account local business. I can recover, after having been on a larger rafter team on Saturday night, and say that there are not so many others in this room that belong to the government party, which is particularly happy. It's now completely safe. With the investments made in all other parts of the Austland on the road for many years, and the move of the main airport to Gardermoen, it actually becomes harder and harder for travel businesses, and more and more people get red numbers. The situation is serious, and when the railway development, which could have given a boost to both the national and international markets, is parked next week, it becomes even more important with good regularity towards the west. Without extra cost, local entrepreneurs can do the break job – and I can name them – for the same sum that is spent on breaking Rv 50 today. I'm surprised that the government party is so satisfied with the situation as he is, that they cannot join the comments of the Center Party and the Labour Party. That is why, on behalf of the same parties, I would like to give the parties a new opportunity, and I would like to put forward a proposal No. 15, which is on the pults.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1321	The representative Eng has taken up the proposal to which she referred. The president also hopes that all the good wishes for the people in the home will be registered at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1326	As a major representative for five years – and for four of them as a member of the Committee on Transport – I have been involved in an incredible number of debates in this Chamber and have heard an incredible amount of praise for the need to invest in public transport. That's why I'm very pleased that we actually have a government that within a very tight framework has prioritised public transport. I have also listened to the expression: where has the Left been left off in the Government? The historical contribution to public transport, as seen in this budget, shows that the Left has achieved a positive impact. We've had an impact for increased capacity, quality and frequency. There is also a greater stake in the purchase of services. Ein's got $45 million last year. SEK off to the T-Bahn in Oslo and 100 million. kr in year. This government has started planning the city railway in Bergen. The mountain program is coming up, and there will be a debate on it a little later. But it shows that there is a government with a Left Council as Minister of Transport that is pushing forward these very important projects. With the investment in place, I have also become aware that funds can be used on a split package for Sandsli-Kokstad in Bergen, to get a higher frequency while waiting for the collective fields. It is a bit enjoyable to follow up on this, because it was actually in the budget agreement with the Labour Party in 2001 that we were able to secure a proper lift for public transport and put this project in place. I have also registered increased investment in road safety and increased investment in racial protection, and there are important left flippers in the budget. Then there is one thing else: the Committee and the Government have written about gas ferries and the use of natural gas within the ferry sector. This has been followed up by the Committee. I'm very pleased that one of the best environmental projects for gas ferries, namely the Halhjem and Sandvikvåg ferry project, might have received the signals needed to contract ferries. It's also an economically profitable project, because it frees resources. An additional ferries are required to be installed in this connection, but with gas ferries, perhaps fewer ferries, more environmentally friendly ferries and increased capacity. The left is very satisfied with this budget for transport, very pleased that one within the tight framework of the budget has had a historic commitment to the collective services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1341	Traffic is an important policy instrument when it comes to using the whole country, both in terms of busnet structure and not least in terms of local business development. In many areas, we have come a long way to develop the road network, to invest in the railways and to facilitate public transport. But what is the main challenge today is the poor road standard in much of the country, in other words the lack of promises to improve existing road surfaces. And just in this area, I can't help but mention my own state, Telemark – a state that the committee visited about a year ago, where they could self-register the bad road standard. It can be shown that Telemark has come all the way to the rear. About 40 pst. of the national road network in Telemark does not have the standard that the state road system itself has set as a standard target. Telemark has received far too little funds, both for investment and for maintaining the road network, and measurements made show that the standard on the road surface in Telemark, and especially in District Telemark, is now worst in the whole country. There must be little imagination to conclude that the transport industry is tired, and that the population is frustrated, when the circumstances are as they are. In addition, such poor standards are directly dangerous to the traffic. In the 1970s, Telemark laid a lot of solid cover. But it went beyond basic work. It doesn't have much of a place to stick to the ground conditions that are in motion all the time. Telemark is a national centre of gravity for industrial production, value creation and renewal, and accounts for a much larger proportion of the country's export income than the population. If the state and industry are to succeed in their ambitions to further develop and strengthen innovation and innovation potential in favour of Norway as an industrial nation, it is entirely dependent on having a greater share of the means of transport than today's distribution. Both the Stortinget and the Department must now take care that Telemark is in a special position in later years' allocations. When it comes to next year's budget, probably the budget line is perceived as a betrayal of the electorate in the light of what the government party has previously said and promises to commit. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party, the additional several million roadheads came to the highways – one step in the right direction – but unfortunately no more money to the roads in Telemark. Politics is about prioritizing. It is good rural policy, good industrial policy and good health policy to focus more on improving road standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1360	It's a good delivery gel to start with the positive first. I'll do the same. The transport budget involves both road and track bets, and not least the maintenance of the national roads receives greater allocation than in the past. And that's good. The status of our roads, however, is nothing to cry out for. We are struggling with some of the old and traffic-hazardous roads, too bad for the traffic load that today's road network is being subjected to. Nor is it good enough for the general traffic. Traffic safety is an essential element. Last but not least, it is about business conditions. It would have been okay if one could see the individual matter piece by piece and divided, if one could not see the whole and the context. But we know that it's not that simple. Business doesn't just need good infrastructure. In today's situation, tight budgets are essential for business. As you can see, the NHO has also expressed satisfaction with the overall framework of the State budget. The rapporteur made it clear in his statement, and I would also like to highlight it now: we have a huge need for increased funds for investment in road and other infrastructure. It's not about performing a complaint song. It's about investing in the future. It's about making Norway attractive to business and tourism, making us competitive. Today, the tourists escape my home country, Telemark. The road standard is too poor for both buses and lorries, and the industry incurs considerable additional costs due to the poor roads. And it's a completely correct state of Sigvald Uppøen Hansen recently described in his post. According to the Sem Declaration, the government will strengthen road allocations based on environmental considerations, value creation, reduction of distance constraints, improved accessibility and safety. In relation to the great lag we have in this sector, we have come a long way. An increase to national roads of DKK 1.8 billion from 2001 is a good contribution. But major challenges remain, and the Right will and will continue to focus on the importance of a future good infrastructure. My home country, Telemark, will be well served, the whole country will be the best served.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1375	The location of the ship's tunnel is a major and important issue for the entire coast, and it is a unique project internationally. One has been working on this project for many years. As one of those who have always been strongly involved in it, the formulations of the multiplicity, the government party and the Progress Party have been put into practice in the Committee, i.e. the need for external quality assurance about the project. This means that when the 2004 budget is presented, it is clear for political consideration. Then all uncertainty and all questions must be resolved, and all the necessary further clarifications must then be placed on the table, so that what remains is to make a political decision, one way or another, and that issue will then be addressed. For the Christian People's Party, this has been a project we've been fighting for for for many years. So it's like we all have our big joys over small things. And today I have a great joy over a very small matter – a small one that most people in Stortinget have probably never heard of her, and there is a 1 km construction of a road far northwest of my county, on Rv 620, in Kjødepollen. It's a matter for which I've been fighting for almost 30 years, and all along, the road has been worse and worse, but a little wider every year. Because the trucks have been heavier and heavier, the trench has driven out the one way to meet the mountain, but on this side the road has been expanded, and the wall is inclined more and more outwards. There's been a connection between heavier cars and the wall that's tilting more and more. This has kind of gone, but now there's a promise of the millions that are going to build up this road. So there's great joy in small things. Then, in relation to the representative Froyn, who talks about road safety earlier in an article, I am told that having a road that is as wide as the cars – at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1382	Phase 1 Eastfold package focuses on two road sections that are among the country’s most remote regions — four-field E6 and E18 through Eastfold. On these two sections go about 80 pst. of land-based exports and imports into and from Norway. In the case of four-field E6, the Stortinget has decided on its own initiative to significantly increase progress on the construction and completion of this route. Now it's absolutely vital that we also get more momentum on the construction of E18. The E6 and E18 belong together as a whole within the framework of the Eastfold package. I am therefore very pleased that the majority of the Committee on Transport, as opposed to the Workers' Party, has made room for a start-up grant of 15 million. kr for the start of the very important Parcel Sekelsten-Krosby. In a febrile attempt at a clean diversion, and to cover that they themselves have not set aside a single crown for next year's budget to E18 through Ashim, the Workers' Party comes with a note when the clock is five over twelve, which consists only of words, and not money. Roads are built that are not familiar with notes and words, there is actually a need for money. The size has previously opened up this year so that the toll company can raise a loan. This provides the basis for the full start of the construction of this parcel in early 2003 and its completion so that opening can take place in 2005. I have noticed with satisfaction that the Minister for Transport has previously characterised the 15 million. kr as a start-up grant for this parcel, and that this places bonds for appropriations later in the period. The third main element of phase 1 of the Eastfold package is the railway tunnel through Moss. This is a railway project that should be excellent for a OPS solution. Here, the business community and the municipality of Moss have set up a significant part-financing of the project. I'm anxiously waiting for what a trade minister can come back to Stortinget, to get this project on the rails as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1389	I have asked for the word to comment on the Fly train in particular. The government proposes to separate the Fly train from the NSB and make it a state-owned train company. They justify that it will best ensure the success of the Flytrain in the future. I would like to remind you that there are three important reasons why the Flytrain has been a success. One reason is that the Stortinget has given priority to the Flytrain. Money is allocated to investment in double tracks on the track, and conditions are set for the priority of the Flytrain. The size has given priority to the Flytrain. Secondly, the NSB group has prioritised the Flytrain as part of the group. It has been given priority, and it is committed to the company developing and fulfilling the task it has been given. They have the power. Thirdly, the employees working on the Fly train have actively contributed to the success of this. These are the main reasons why the Flytrain can refer to these figures and the market share they have in transport to and from the Gardermoen. When we oppose the separation of the Fly train, it is because we believe that this success is not guaranteed to continue if the Fly train becomes an independent train company. In reality, for a separation from the NSB group, a competitive outsourcing of the Flytrain is. It will not be a hundred percent sure that this will happen in the future, even though the majority of the Grand Council decides that the Flytrain will continue to have priority on the airway. The competition rules within the EU could help to ensure that the NSB, which will now be a competitor of the Flytrain, will be able to claim to operate parts of the Gardermoban. Therefore, there will be uncertainty about the future priority of the Flytrain. Secondly, it's the economic situation. It is not satisfied that this will be economically successful for the Flytrain. On the other hand, they will have increased costs of separation, including: it will not be possible to reap the benefits of coordination between operations, maintenance and scheduled times if they were part of the NSB group. Now they will have increased costs in these areas. Thirdly, it will increase VAT costs. At a separation, the government calculated it to be 8 million. kr in the first instance – i.e. an economic impairment of the airline’s economy by separation. That's why you have to look very long to find good and rational arguments for the state to spend more than half a billion to buy the flight train from the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1402	The President had hoped that we would be finished with the debate and the three-minute speeches in case no. 1, 3 and 4 in the morning. Now it's drawing more than what we can do to liquidate, so the president is seriously worried about how this is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1405	In June, Stortinget decided to build the Bjørvika tunnel, and the potential lies there. Because what's going on? We're getting rid of Norway's biggest junction today, a crossroads that has led to significant noise and air pollution. We get rid of Norway's most expensive intersection in terms of area costs. In these areas, we will now open Oslo to the fjord and facilitate housing and nutrition and create a significant cultural power centre, and we will open up important parts of our national culture to the public – the Medieval Park and the ruins of the two radiant cathedrals, the Church of Mary and the Cathedral of St. Halvard. Until now, they have been partially hidden under a motorway. I am therefore very pleased that the Government has now followed up this decision in the budget by proposing 20 million. kr for design effort in 2003. Not as pleased I am that the majority, including my own party, is reducing this allocation by 10 million. kr. This may lead to a slightly less rapid progression in 2003. However, I see that the Minister of Transport believes that the planned start of construction should be possible in 2005, which the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, is satisfied with. I am therefore not, in fact, as concerned as the Workers' Party and SV, who believe that this reduction in the 2003 design money cast doubt on the project. I also believe that the two parties have no reason to claim that this is a serious breach of the promise by the Right. Decision on the start of construction of the Bjørvika tunnel in 2005 is firm. I have also noticed that the Progress Party, which has been against the Bjørvika tunnel in the past, has now actually agreed to grant this money, and I also agree that it is satisfied that the start of construction will be possible in 2005. These are positive and new tones. And then finally. I also welcome the fact that the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, points out the problems at Mossevejen, from Sørenga to Fiskevoll, and asks the Government to come forward with an assessment of the development of the Mossevej tunnel between Sørenga and Fiskevoll, based on private funding. I expect that the government will do it quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1414	I take the floor because Signe Eye earlier today criticized the government parties to show lack of action in relation to the development of E6 and E18 again in Eastfold. In recent years we have experienced endless cows, deaths and many lesions on E6 and E18 through Eastfold. Last night there was a family that died on the E6 in Eastfold, a tragic event for the family, of course, but also for society, that such things are going on and happening almost daily. So far, over 20 people have died on E6 through Eastfold. We then experience Signe Eye coming up here and criticising the Government, which actually promoted a proposition in June, which was adopted here in Stortinget on 21 June, that E6 should be forced through Eastfold – both E6 and E18. I think it's catchy with the people who die in traffic. But that the Labour Party's own politicians, who have been in a way very evasive in this matter for almost 30 years, take the floor and criticise the government parties, who actually do something in this matter, namely to start developing E6 and E18 through Eastfold, I think that's very unreasonable. It's about 70-80 pst. of all traffic and goods out and inwards from Norway through Eastfold. This is a national project, this is very important. Nevertheless, previous worker party governments have not prioritised the development of this road, although all statistics have indicated that this has been a road where there has been a great need to extend to the four-field motorway a long time ago. You had even designed it. In 1973 a two-field motorway was already built. At that time, it was designed to extend the four-field motorway. However, it took 29 years before something happened in that case. So I have to say that the government parties have a good conscience in this matter. But unfortunately, in relation to all the families who experience injuries and deaths, there is no excuse. We could have done something far, far earlier so that we could have avoided the events that are now happening. In addition to that, I just want to end by saying that I hope that on a later occasion we will also find a solution through Moss, so that Moss also gets a worthy railway solution and a worthy solution in relation to the road. They have a lot of traffic in the middle of the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1423	Hedmark is a state entirely based on land transport, with no maritime and air options, and road transport is crucial for the development of business and housing. We have the country's highest driving density, with as many registered vehicles as its inhabitants. We have a significant transit volume of goods and passengers north-south, east-west, and we have the country's most remote road network when we take 12,000 km of private roads. Unfortunately, for a number of years, we have been on national bottom ground in terms of the allocation of means of transport, despite the increase in annual road traffic. This is tragic, but unfortunately a reality. And one of the worst roads is Rv 3. You can then ask the question whether we should bet on Rørosbanen or on Rv 3 – or thank you, both. 370 lorries/wagon trains drive Østerdalen every day. Every five cars on Rv3 are a heavier vehicle. As well as all the freight is going on here. The road is one of the largest jobs in the region. Maintenance and road standards are important for the health, environment and safety of professional drivers. About 90 pst. by the vehicle combinations, the Østerdalen chooses over the Gudbrand valley, because it is shorter and thus more profitable, both economically and environmentally. Row 3 is designated by the Stortinget as a tribal road, but only 9 pst. Rv3 is currently in line with the standard adopted, i.e. 8,5 metres in width. The road surface is uneven and worn. No major investment has been made in a number of years. The narrow and poor road leads to too many accidents. From 1990 to 2000, 38 people died on Rv 3. Soft road users are poorly secured along the narrow road. Last winter there were many complaints from the trailer drivers. It was especially the professional drivers who run through the whole of the Østerdalen, who were dissatisfied. The complaints increased with the emergence of darkness. It was the worst in the middle of the night. In November and December there were varying weather conditions and often problems at Rv 3. There were waiting times and delays due to some traffic accidents. Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund received clear feedback. The winter maintenance of Rv 3 has never been worse. In winter, i.e. At the end of October, snow fell so much that some interpreted the road manager in Hedmark that she suggested shutting down Rv 3 because of large amounts of snow. This doesn't matter. The road system must be proactive, always and more offensive. It must not be on money when it comes to the winter maintenance of Rv3 – or other roads, for that matter. When only 9 pst. Of course, there will be many problematic points of Row 3 keeping the adopted tribal road width. Of some places that are extra dangerous, I can mention Åsta Bru, the 60th son of Evenstad and the 60th son of Ophus – there's another elementary school, and it's very dangerous for students to travel there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1439	I come from a part of the country with extremely export-dependent business, namely Lofoten. About everything produced in the region is to be sold in other parts of the world. Fishing, aquaculture and travel are totally dependent on air, boat and car transport. These are vital means of transport for businesses and for individuals, in and out of the region. This is why what is happening in the areas of ports, roads, ferries and airports, basic infrastructure that allows both housing and industrial development, so that we – not least – can exploit our natural assumptions and create values for the rest of the nation. The government's positive policy has led us to see for the first time in many years an initial reduction in flight prices. It is very beneficial both for the tourism industry and for other parts of business and passenger transport. Another element within this state budget is that after many years of desert migration, through changing governments, the Government and the Stortinget have now come to the conclusion that Lofast is to be completed as previously adopted. I think it is very positive that we now have a start-up and a completion of this project, which triggers new opportunities in one of the densely populated regions of the Nordic countries. This project is helping to link Lofoten, Vesterålen, Ofoten and Süd-Troms to one trading region with more than a hundred thousand people who provide both direct and indirect opportunities to create new jobs, new activities and new opportunities to earn. In addition, I believe that what is going on, and which is announced in the State budget, is that we can now expect ferry traffic to be put out for competition and put on the market, means a new line also in this part of the transport policy, which means that ferry transport and ferry traffic can be even more targeted towards the real needs of business and passenger transport, and not, as in the past, be governed by political decisions and political horse trading. I think this government is doing a lot of good for the traffic in District Norway right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1452	I understand the President will be completed quickly. I just want to remind you that there are three things we are handling, and that it is not so good to have done so quickly. I'll have a comment on this with Østfold. So I'm going to ask some completely necessary questions to the council that I hope she can answer, otherwise we have trouble knowing what we're going to vote for tonight. But first, about Eastfold. Words in the note are of little value, said one of the representatives. That's true. But something that gives you the opportunity to borrow money is money. It doesn't amount to 15 million. kr that is being opened today. Eastfold is asking for the right to advance, and that is what we will give Eastfold the right, under certain conditions. When it comes to the Fly train, I can show you to the post of Geir-Ketil Hansen, we're in line. We want a closer link to the NSB, with a coordination gain. We know that the priority of the train is one of the competitive factors. That's what they found in the Evening Post when they were at Oslo Central Station and asked people. It wasn't the landmarks, it was that the train came in time, and that it came looking. And the last thing we want, if the plural said that the Fly train should be sold, is to prevent the priority from being sold. That was our political goal. And then I have five questions to the Council of State: what is the criterion for giving priority to a track? Does the route for the Flytrain, Oslo-Gardermoen, possibly Asker-Gardermoen, meet these criteria? Can the Flytoge AS be given the following priority? If not, how can the value be set to 412 million? Do you really want to delete this item? And is the Council of States fully or fairly certain that the II of the Decision is possible in relation to the EEA Agreement? So I want to ask a final question about the railway, and it has to be the last one: does the Storting have to give a clear signal so that the railway works can start planning the freight terminal and the railway organised as a OPS project? That means that if we can't make that decision today, it has to go back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1463	I was in my previous post a little bit involved in oil protection and the fisheries minister's handling of it. What we're not aware of – perhaps someone is aware of it – is that there are at least 12 different departments dealing with oil protection. At least the Minister for Fisheries didn't say that. The impression we're left with in this room is that the Ministry of Fisheries is responsible. That's not the case. I am going to frame the departments, and you can take note of them: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and Police, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Education and Research. When will the Government take the initiative to bring together all the institutions dealing with the coast, under one department? Per. Today, fishermen are the only professional group to be convicted and fined for guessing errors. If a guess is that there are 40 tons outside the range, the catch takes on board and goes and delivers it, and it's only 30 tons, then you get a fine and a withdrawal of the catch – by guessing 10 tons wrong! This has been decided by the Ministry of Fisheries, and we have given them the power to decide in this Chamber. Can we with our hand on our heart go in for that? Yes, we can. It is the Ministry of Defence that has jurisdiction over everything going on outside the territorial border. The Ministry of Fisheries responds to questions relating to pollution within the territorial border. Outside, it's the Ministry of Defence. We're not aware of that. Maybe someone is aware of it, but at least I wasn't aware of it before in the last growing-up period. It does not help the blow that a municipal government representative from the Christian People's Party in Brønnøy says that the dead will dig their own grave, when one will settle six feet under the peat. It's no use if the neighbor digs the grave for one either. When you're dead, you're dead. At the same time, we're giving $12.5 billion to the Gardermoban. And it's going to happen outside the budget so people don't know about it, it's going to go quietly. Then they put down the gas station in Hattfjelldal, where the distance for people to the nearest gas station is seven miles. Esso will not even sell to the municipality and to the rapporteur because it was too expensive. Therefore, they have to dig up their minds and apply considerable costs to Esso Norway, instead of being able to transfer it. People don't understand that we're going to build a new city in Oslo East that costs 100 billion dollars before we're done. It is not possible to build an opera in a traffic machine. It says itself. People just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1476	I refer to the cap. 1374 in St. Prp. No 1, which deals, inter alia, with: development of GSM-R. Reference is made to Innst. S. No 274 for 2001-2002, where the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice have asked the Railway Agency to initiate a review of potential gains in the coordination of GSM-R development with the TETRA project. A joint note by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice of the Railway Agency on the TETRA project dated 14 August 2002 asks for an analysis of the possibilities for achieving synergies in the coordinated development of GSM-R and TETRA. The desire to do so is based on political decisions and a meeting between those departments on 8 August 2002. The main objective of the investigative work shall be to identify synergies that can be realised within the timescales of the two projects, while maximising the achievement of the separate objectives of the projects. This will make maximum use of State investment undertaken and planned and minimise the need for new investment. The work shall be based on previous works and carried out in cooperation between the Railway Agency and the TETRA project. The realisation of the benefits identified by the work started will be reciprocal and will depend on the start of development. No final decision has yet been taken to initiate the GSM-R extension. The same applies to TETRA. We are no more than 4.5 million people in this country. I allow myself to ask the question whether, for example, one should consider expanding one of these systems where it meets safety and usage requirements. With the choice of e.g. In addition, TETRA networks could expand GSM-R along the routes where foreign train equipment is used. At the same time, it will be in a position to meet the EU Directive's pre-requisite that the rail network introduces GSM-R for high-speed rail in Norway. It is agreed that the formal investigation work will take place between the TETRA project and the Railway Agency. When the mandate of the investigative teams is not intended to examine whether TETRA and GSM-R can replace each other in full or in part, perhaps the greatest benefit of coordination has been made impossible. This does not correspond to the comments of neither the Judicial Committee nor the Transport Committee on the coordination requirements of these two projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1489	I would like to say a few words about the maybe most important tribal route in Norway without a satisfactory standard, although it connects 1.2 million. human beings. The E39 Coastal Road goes from Kristiansand in the south to Trundellag in the north, passing through the main and largest export counties in the country. Between Stavanger and Bergen is the most important axis, through the country's most international industrial area with export-oriented activities. Here are important food clusters in oil and gas, maritime activities and aquaculture, but the road has some wretched standard, down the one-field winding road over Stord and an access road towards Bergen, which makes one feel set aside for the 1960s or 1970s. It is therefore very gratifying that the Committee on Transport, at least a majority of which, has made room for 10 million. kr extra to the plant Moberg-Svegatjørn i Os, which is a very important parcel on the E39. In the next round, the road must be guided by modern standards between Os, Rådal and Bergen. And new plans are in progress. In the south, at Stavanger, the plans for an underwater crossing of the Bokenfjord are soon clear, and from Stord to Tysnes is now planned to Tysnesbrua. The goal is a ferry-free coastal line between Stavanger and Bergen. It will cut travel time by almost an hour and a half, which is very important for a competitive business and most people in this part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1498	There were three-four speakers who made me take the floor, among others. Uppøen Hansen from the Workers' Party and Kari Lise Holmberg from the Right, and it was Signe Eye and also the last speeches. They have been up to the pulpit and complained about not getting money – neither one way nor the other. They're talking about taking care of tourism, taking care of business and the population out in the districts and around. And I fully agree with them. That's what this is about. It seems to me that both the representative Eye from the Labour Party and the representative from the Right are up here and say, "We want, we want, but we don't get it. Because it is not useful to come up here and complain that you are not getting money. The representative Martin Engeset said that the Workers' Party only made comments and words, but not with money. And I agree with him in that. But why didn't the party he represented even with money? So they didn't. That is why I thought that I should go up to the floor and say that the alternative state budget of the Progress Party is also in favour today, so that those representatives who are not satisfied with their own party have the opportunity to vote on the budget from the Progress Party, which will give more money to Telemark, among other things. The choice is free. You can vote on that proposal if you like. That's the fly train. It is proposed in paragraph 1 that the Fly train should be transferred to the Ministry of Transport as its owner. That's what we're voting against, assuming we have a note where we ask the Government to add it to the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1510	I have some comments at the very end of this debate. When it's Rv 50, it's a suggestion to get a night break. We are pleased that we have now got a fixed arrangement for this road, with a break from the clock. 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 22:00 all winter. Having a night op will cost between 1.5 and 2.5 million. kr per year. Proposing that proposal without money seemed to me to be a little pointless. Then to Bjørvika. More — including The representative Froyn – has mentioned what has happened in Bjørvika, that we are adding 10 million. kr instead of 20 mill. kr. There have been some reactions to this, but I can comfort the representative Froyn and others with the fact that the reaction we have received from Oslo is too embarrassing to account for reactions from some other states that are also waiting for projects that should have come a long time ago, and that we have had to weigh down a little bit to keep the tight budget most of us want. But I'm overestimated that it's going to work out. As the Council of State replied in a letter to the Committee: A plan to start construction and to meet the commitments before 2005. Then to the Fly train. The representative Heidi Sørensen says it's a little strange that the department has to manage two competitors, i.e. the NSB and the Flytrain. It is not easier for one competitor to manage the other, as the situation is today. It's the NSB that owns the Fly train today, so we're about to clean this up. So to the E18 through Ashim and the slightly odd curve jump that the representative Signe Eye has brought here: the government party also supports – and the representative Eye knows – that it will be opened for debt financing under certain conditions, as the representative Starrfelt of the Workers' Party has also said. But in addition, we have $15 million. kr. I am aware that there is a little hurt for the representative Eye and others in the Labour Party, but at least that is the reality. So the representative called for Svendsen's praise from the Right. And the representative Svendsen and the Progress Party will be praised from the Right for their willingness to cooperate. I have previously characterised their alternative budget; it was not praise, but they should be praised for their cooperation. But the conclusion is not that Svendsen's representative came to the conclusion that there was an invitation to the government, perhaps not on the contrary, but far from it. Then the representative Sørensen says that I have characterized Skogsholm as the best road council since Opseth. No, it's wrong. I said we had some good years early in the 1990s. It wasn't primarily because of Opseth, but it was a clear counter-cyclical policy to bring down unemployment. When Skogsholm now manages such a great increase even in a very tight economy, she is the best travel council we've had. But then Skogsholm also has an extremely good number of large sizes to rely on. Finally, although I am a committee leader, I am also a local representative. The Eics connection is going through. I don't want to spend time on it, but just tell me very much about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1529	The regulatory time has now come to an end. There are two speakers left on the list of speakers. If it stays with them, the president will let the meeting go over time. If it's more than one, they'll sign up for the afternoon's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1534	The mainland link in Ryfylke, with today's setting, has come a long and important step forward in the direction of realization. St. pp. No 1 Appendix No 2 and today's setting give green light for toll pre-claiming for further planning. I have to say that on 25 October, when the document came from the department and I took it out of the shelf, I thought that here I am with a historical document. It is such that the mainland link between the Ryfylke and the North-Jear has been planned for many years. There have been various solutions, and there have been differences of opinion, both between municipalities, between residents and in the county. For a long time, the Hochsfjord project was the highest priority. In the context of the revision of the Ryfylke Transport Plan, the county council took a very important decision last June. It was at the initiative of the Centre Party, first to the municipalities concerned and then to the different groups in the county. I'm very pleased that the Council of State followed up so quickly. In addition, it was also underlined from the Stortinget’s side that when the local decisions were taken, the Council of State would follow up. There are 13,000 inhabitants in the Ryfylke municipalities through one of these fjord crossings, i.e. between the Ryfylke and the Northern Jären. When it's Finnfast, we're talking about 3,000 people who get on the mainland. And then this is true of a lot of people who come the other way, from the North to the Ryfylke. There are great potentials here, both for business and construction, not least when it comes to downloading from the pressure that has been on the North-Jear for a long time. I know that the Storting should take a fresh look at the whole pack, but there is now optimism and hope for the future in Ryfylke in relation to the night connection and the column run that you have experienced, as far as you can compare with the ferry connection. I just want to say in the end that there is another very important decision for Rogaland that is being made here today, and that is the further planning of the double track, a path that has so far been a success, and that will also mean a lot when it comes to unloading on the North-Jear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1547	There have been a number of questions related to the Fly train, in particular with regard to the Fly train and priority rules in relation to the infrastructure. A proposal has been made for new rules on the allocation of railway infrastructure which is out of consultation and to be determined by the Ministry. A number of guidelines have been proposed to be taken into account. A priority order has been created for the allocation of infrastructure capacity. The highest priority in relation to what we are talking about now is infrastructure capacity on public services and other regular passenger services, which, for social reasons, are important priorities. The flight train is an important priority. It's also NSB's passenger transport. The flight train is important to prioritize because we have a target of a high collective share for the transport to the airport at Gardermoen. This is still a goal. Therefore, this is an important railway activity. The purpose of this train, which is of social importance, will then be given high priority. Still there will be parts of the distance where there will be capacity stringing, especially now when we build double tracks Sandvika-Asker. That means there are parts of the line where there is congestion on the capacity. Then there will be a question of prioritizing. Then these regulations give us the opportunity to prioritize the function associated with the flight train. With regard to ownership, priority may be given to the train running and shall have this function, regardless of ownership. I also understood the question as if it were about selling the Flytrain. There's an up-to-date case for us here today. It is a separate matter that must be brought before Stortinget, if that is the case. However, on the issue of priority in relation to infrastructure, there is scope for giving that priority, given the social importance of this transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-09.ana.ud399e1558	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, three, four. The afternoon meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18 and we start with the treatment of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see pages 869 and 888]]
