ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e82	The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e85	On behalf of the representative Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on environmental certification of timber and timber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e90	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we deal with today's map, the President has been asked a number of questions about how long you expect the debate to last Friday. It is impossible to say – it depends on the activity of the deposit representatives – but in 2000 the last meeting of the session was finished at 9.30 p.m. 19.15 a.m. and 2001 p.m. 9:30. – This for preliminary information. Otherwise, the Lamentations meeting was finished yesterday at 5 p.m. 03.05. We are a couple of hours after the scheduled schedule for today's meeting. If all the committees debate as they have foreseen, the clock could be both 2 and 3 at night. This for information before we start the negotiations. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 to 5 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e156	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e167	There has been a long and warm spring on Stortinget. It has been hot inside the walls, not least because of the work on the climate communication, and it has been record hot in large parts of the country. We've also read that there are large forest fires out of control in Colorado, U.S.A., and there are huge floods in China. Whether it's due to climate change or not, it's not good to say, but it's important to remember what's behind what we're doing. We're going to do what we can to stop the global warming of the atmosphere. We can't solve the whole problem here in Norway, but we have to do ours, so that what's done together means something. We have to sweep at our own door and keep order in our house. Translated into concrete policies, this means that we must now start the job of meeting our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. That has been the goal of the setting we are discussing today. The government promoted an additional message to the paperback Workers' Party promoted last year and together these two messages contain a number of measures that will lead to greater control of greenhouse gas emissions. SV has tried to play an offensive and constructive role in this work, and we believe that we have achieved a good result. The government has proposed – and the majority of the Committee supports – an early allowance system for the non-CO2 industry and an allowance system from the Kyoto period has been proposed to start in 2008. Overall, the reduction measures that are now being adopted will place Norway in a solid position to meet its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. Of course, the 2005 early quota system has created the greatest disagreement. SV went out early and supported the proposed system. The reasons for that are many. In the supplementary communication, the government proposes that the part of the industry exempted from the CO2 tax be subject to an allowance system from 2005. The target is a 20 pst reduction in emissions. from 1990 to the end of the period, in 2007. The proposal has met with strong criticism from the industrial community. This was not unexpected. It was more unexpected that it met such resistance from the Workers' Party – unexpectedly because the Workers' Party promoted a nearly identical proposal on quota obligations from 2008. The working party will argue that the broad distinction between these two systems is that the Government’s proposal is to be implemented early, as from 2005, and that the proposed system is too narrow. The solution of the working party was to propose an even narrower system, which also rewarded closures. In the opinion of SV, the proposed alternative of the Workers' Party was a bubble and a voluntary system, a combination of a play with numbers and an unfinished quota system. It seems to bear the mark of a need to do something other than the Government. This is not the SV's way of running politics. First of all, we want a policy that leads to a better climate. Then it is better that it is a political opponent that promotes the proposal. The criticism of the early allowance system can be summarised as follows: the system will not lead to trade because most of the reductions have already been implemented. Those who have something to reduce have already done so. Further reductions are now either impossible or very expensive. On the other hand, industry wants a system of voluntary agreements and offers even greater reductions on its part. For SV, these counter-arguments have not been good enough to go against the quota system. The reason is that there is so much flexibility built in that none of what the industry achieves with a voluntary agreement is impossible to do with the early system. Joint implementation is open both in sectors, between enterprises and with non-quota actors and with actors in other countries. This provides opportunities for reductions and conversion both within Norway and in other countries. In the SV’s view, the early system also provides a basis for important good practice when the Kyoto period begins in 2008. SV has had a good dialogue with the industry in its work on climate communication, and has taken into account several of the objections raised by the industry. As a result of this dialogue, we have, among other things: called for reductions since 1990 to be included, for enterprises with a special situation in the reference year 1990 to be taken into account and for the allocation of allowances to holdings to be carried out in dialogue with holdings. In the opinion of the SV, this has resulted in the quota system becoming more flexible and applicable to industry. In addition, SV proposed a research and development programme for new technologies in the ETS sector, funded as a split layer between country and enterprise. Unfortunately, SV remained alone on this proposal. However, SV was able to ensure that any infringement fees are ploughed back to the industry for action and conversion. Industry has claimed that there will not be much trade between companies. Now, of course, it remains to be seen. But believing that an allowance system is solely a matter of an enterprise selling an allowance to another enterprise is a fundamental flaw. An oil cargo transported from the Gulf to Europe was purchased and sold 200 times before reaching the refinery. Similarly, a trading system of carbon allowances will develop. This device is already in the socket. We have great faith that the Norwegian financial and industrial environment will be involved in the carbon market – a market that, according to the analysts, will amount to as much as DKK 200 billion per year. years when the Kyoto period begins. It has been claimed that it is pointless to start a quota system in Norway before it has started in other countries. But the fact is that Norway is not alone in starting a national system. The same applies to Denmark, the United Kingdom, the EU and others. In fact, the allowances systems are not the same, and maybe we have to live with inequalities for a few years to figure out what kind of system works best in the long term. The aim is to harmonise the different allowances systems with each other, and the SV is in favour of several approaches that allow such harmonisation. Nevertheless, Norway is completing its system before the EU, so it is important that we set up a system that can lead the EU’s final system of allowances. With regard to the use of the system, there is one thing that I want to get closer to. It opens up the possibility for eligible enterprises to purchase allowances through the CDM. This is particularly relevant for enterprises that have no possibility of reducing their own emissions either at home or in cooperation with other enterprises. It is with amazement that I have recorded in this debate the resistance of some actors to the early use of the mechanism. The green development mechanism is a tool that can enable both capital and environmental technologies to be transferred from the rich to the poor part of the world – funds that are additional to current aid. Enterprises in Norway may make reductions in developing countries and have access to the allowances they represent. This concept is an important part of the Kyoto Protocol and such projects have been in progress since 2000. For SV, it is important that the green development mechanism works well and leads to real reductions. Here the government has not been ready enough, according to our concepts. This scheme lacks clear quality requirements, not least as regards the possibility of including forest measures in the previous allowance system. This is why we agree with the Working Party on quota requirements from the CDM. This is essential for this mechanism to work and for real emission reductions. We need to develop good control mechanisms to ensure that no one is wondering. We need to know that the reference path, or baseline, as it is called in the technical language, is correct. No one should believe that we avoid problems with this in an early stage. That is precisely why we cannot agree with the Labour Party that we should not use the green development mechanism in the early quota system. SV believes that it is essential that the Kyoto period from 2008 to 2012 leads to real reductions and that it is important to gain experience as soon as possible. A well-managed system of projects under the Clean Development Mechanism must be developed in the field, with testing and failure. If we wait until 2008, we'll waste valuable time. So to the measures: SV has been concerned with implementing measures leading to reductions in CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions before the quota system enters into force in 2005. We have therefore made several proposals on this, both in the vote and in our own document No. Eight proposals. SV is pleased that we have had an impact on several of these, both the investigation of measures to electrify the base, an introduction programme for biofuels and the requirement for alternative sources of heating in buildings of more than 1000 m2. These are measures that will contribute to an important change in energy policy, and which SV is well pleased to have put in place. But SV also had many other proposals for action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We are therefore less pleased that the government parties have no longer made any effort to propose or to support actions that can be implemented before 2005. When the climate notification is adopted today, it is important that this does not become a sleep cushion, especially given that several of the measures actually require funding from the State budget. The government sits on the budget comrade Progress Party's mercy. There is therefore every reason to keep an eye on the follow-up to this message – and I can promise that SV will. Finally, I would like to recommend the Committee's position and the proposals made by SV alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e227	The representative has addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e232	As the rapporteur stated in his statement, SV has provided the Government with a majority in favour of the 2005 proposal for a narrow national quota system. But this is just one of many actions discussed in this setting. And except in the case of the quota system, the setting shows that the working party is in agreement with SV on a number of comments and suggestions. We agree to ask the Government to draw up an action plan for the gradual conversion of fossil fuel heating to heating with new, renewable energy sources. It is a measure that can lead to large reductions in CO2 emissions. We agree that from 2003 a temporary and equal aid scheme for new and renewable energy sources should be set up equivalent to a half-electricity charge per year. 1 January 2002. We agree that the pollution law will be based until 2008. We agree that a hydrogen fund should be set up to strengthen hydrogen as an alternative fuel, and we are united, as the rapporteur was in favour, on a number of concrete requirements that should be imposed on quotas that can be achieved through joint implementation and the green development mechanism. So in all of these areas, the Workers' Party and SV stand together. But the government parties aren't in. My question to the representative Malvik is therefore: On the basis of these proposals that the Workers' Party and SV agree, but where the government parties are not involved, does SV agree that the Workers' Party and SV are more offensive than the Government in terms of concrete actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e239	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is working with us on a number of proposed measures to come into force before the quota system in 2005. We have long argued that proposing a national quota system and then leaning back and waiting until 2005, is not the SV strategy. We want to take action quickly in a wide range of sectors. It is also a reality that if we can reduce emissions in sectors other than industry, it will also benefit industry in the long term. Our Kyoto target is to increase emissions by only 1 pst from 2008 to 2012. relative to 1990 levels. This means that all measures taken in sectors other than industry will reduce the pressure to achieve further reductions in industry. We think that is very good industrial policy and good environmental policy. As for the debate on who is most offensive, I think there is little doubt that the sum of the CO2 emissions that SV has entered into, both with the Workers' Party and not least with those we are alone, will show who wins the competition for who is most offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e248	The rapporteur was concerned about this with an early quota system. In its position as I and in the majority of its comments, there are some indications of an early trading of allowances in order to limit the injury to Norwegian industry. The competitiveness of industry must be safeguarded. The country’s revenue from the infringement fee shall be returned to industry in the form of support for the environment and conversion measures or research into environmental technologies. The system shall take into account the nature of the arrangements to which the EU decides to connect. It shall not be possible to buy freely through the cheapest measures in developing countries. However, in total, these leads are such that it is unclear whether there will be any trading of allowances in Norway from 2005. That is something we in the Progress Party are happy about. If it turns out that it would be impossible to introduce a national quota system or a national CO2 tax with regard to the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, would SV let Norwegian industry compete in the same way as its foreign competitors?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e257	As I referred to in my post, SV was alone proposing a conversion programme for the quota sector. We proposed an innovation and research programme that would have meant that until 2005, the ETS sector would have the opportunity to pursue an offensive conversion policy. This selects the Progress Party not to support. It is a reality that if you are to take the climate noise seriously, which the Progress Party does not do, you have to take some tough measures. A national allowance system is needed to set up a system that reduces emissions. Thus, it is also a system that prepares us for the Kyoto period from 2008 to 2012, when we have an international system. When it comes to adapting to other countries, we say, as I referred to instead, that we want harmonisation with other countries. It's a line that the government has also laid down. On my question to the Council of State on how to treat gas power plants within the quota system — it is within the system — the answer is clear: Gas power plants are within the EU's ETS directive. Then it is also natural that we follow it up in Norway. There will be a level playing field at the same time as the quota obligation for gas power plants. It is an important environmental policy victory for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e266	It is interesting to hear who is most offensive in environmental policy. The Vaggen Malvik suggests that there may be a game of numbers; others may say that it may be a game of words. I think this one can weigh a little bit over and over again. There are different angles that you could have. I think the intention here is really very good for everyone. My question to Vaggen Malvik concerns a proposal that goes on biofuels, as they are so offensive. A Document No has been submitted. Eight proposals from representatives of SV. In fact, they refer to this proposal without mentioning anything more about it, while the Workers' Party and the Centre are the most offensive in this context and promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement an introduction programme for the use of biofuels.’ I just wonder how SV looks at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e280	I'm very happy that the Center Party focuses on our commitment to an introduction program for biofuels. We have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals to put in place such a programme, and we've also been given an insight into the implementation of such a programme. It is also in the position, as a majority comment. In the case of other measures that we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, SV's policy is so that we do not want to build the natural gas power plant. It represents 2.1 million. tonnes of CO2. We will not build Industrialkraft’s project on Forest – 2.1 million. tonnes of CO2. We don't want any gas power plant on Snow White. That's 0.9 million. tonnes. We also want to secure waste landfills and stop new landfilling of organic waste – 1.5 million. tonnes. We can keep going. We want conversion and heating from fossil fuels to bioenergy – 2.3 million. tonnes. The biofuel programme represents nearly 0,5 million. tonnes of CO2. The electrification will mean 1.5 million. tonnes. In total, this is almost $11 million. tonnes of CO2 savings for which SV enters. Much of this is also agreed by the Centre Party, but at least it represents a list of how we have thought about setting up an offensive climate policy. We have to say no to the large point emissions, such as: gas power plants represent. We can't build them. And we have to put in place mechanisms that make it possible to create a system that works in other areas of emissions that are more widespread. This means that the system will be driven to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e291	This year it is 10 years since the adoption of the UNFCCC at the major world summit in Rio de Janeiro. In September the Heads of State meet again, this time in Johannesburg. It's time to ask ourselves what we've achieved in these ten years, because there have been some important changes. In 1992, there was considerable scientific uncertainty as to whether it was really man-made activity that had begun to change the earth’s climate. Today, there is broad scientific consensus that the climate is changing and that climate change is man-made. Over the past ten years, we have not least had an international climate agreement, and Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol as one of the first countries. But the challenges are still huge. Despite the enormous increase in both wind power and solar energy in the global context over the last decade, the world still receives 90 pst. of its commercial energy needs covered by fossil fuels. fossil gas emissions have increased by almost 10 pst. In Johannesburg, the climate problem will again become an important topic. It must then be a fundamental recognition that the climate problem is linked to the ever-increasing difference between poor and rich internationally. On the one hand, in the rich part of the world, we have added to an ever-increasing consumption and an increasingly energy-intensive way of life, which has made it possible for us to cope with most of the greenhouse gas emissions. On the other hand, poverty and population growth lead to land robbery in poor countries, to the deforestation of forests, and to desertification and pollution. At the same time, it is the poorest countries that will be hardest hit by climate change. That is why, in the rich countries, we have a great responsibility to go ahead. We need to convert more environmentally friendly energy production, into a transport policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and into a technological change that also reduces greenhouse gas emissions by industry. This is what today's treatment should have resulted in. In this setting, a number of concrete proposals have been made – some are better than others. The Labour Party is involved in the best proposals, but apart from two proposals, one that the Government should consider electrification, and one that the Government must cooperate with the industry, the Government is not involved in any of these proposals. The government does not agree with the proposal to start electrification of the socket. The government does not agree with the proposal to establish a phased conversion of heating with fossil fuels to heating with new renewable energy sources. The Government does not participate in the proposal to establish a temporary and equal aid scheme for new renewable energy sources equivalent to half of the electricity charge per year. 1 January 2002. The government does not agree that the pollution law will be the basis for greenhouse gas emissions until 2008. The Government does not agree with the proposal to establish a hydrogen fund to be used to strengthen hydrogen as an alternative fuel. The Government does not agree with the proposal to launch an introduction programme for biofuels. Nor does the government agree to draw up an overall plan for energy recovery in industry, based on the identification of the possibilities for exploiting recovered energy. If the government had wanted to, it could be on all the proposals that the Workers' Party is on. Then we could have really talked about offensive environmental policies. But unfortunately it's not like that. The Norwegian climate challenge is about starting the transformation into a more environmentally friendly society. Then we have to shift the transport sector, for example. by investing in biofuels and hydrogen. Then we have to add more waterborne heat and expand new renewable energy, and then we have to develop our industry to reduce emissions. When the Government presented its climate report, it also presented a plan for how much reductions the measures in the message would lead to. The early allowance system would reduce emissions by 1.6 million. tonnes, and on the cap you could reduce by 1.5 million. tonnes. Reducing the use of fuel oil could lead to 1 million. tonnes in reduced emissions and measures in the waste sector would reduce emissions by 2 million. tonnes. And that sounded great! But when we got the message on the table and were to read it, we didn't find these numbers anywhere. The Committee asked the Government twice, but the Government would not repeat the figures from the press conference in a formal letter to the Storting. It just showed that it had been a calculus example. In addition, when the government parties cannot account for the figures provided by the Minister for the Environment, they cannot be taken into account by the Workers' Party. But let's see that we're still putting one of them to work. So let's assume that the narrow national allowance system would reduce emissions by 1.6 million. tonnes. So this is going to be 1.6 million. the tonnages flying the flag of the Government in the climate communication. In environmental policy it should be such that it is the results that count. I therefore think it is sad that the Government has been so suspended in its own proposal that it has not been interested in assessing other solutions at all, and that despite the fact that the solution that the Workers' Party and the Centre are entering into this setting will actually lead to greater reductions than the Government's arrangements. Our proposal is that there should be strict requirements for the industry to reduce its emissions collectively. In this way, industry can, in the same way as in the sulphur agreement, enter into a fissure layer, and for example. investment in one measure in a factory capable of reducing emissions by 500000 tonnes. In this way, we would ensure greater flexibility and not least predictability that is so important to industry. In this way we can also impose stricter requirements, and we therefore propose that the industry reduce its emissions by 30 pst, or 5 million. tonnes, by 2008. In order to stimulate the development of new technologies, we propose the creation of a carbon fund, where the state is also involved and contributing. Furthermore, our proposal requires action to be implemented in Norway. That is why, like what has been proposed in the EU, we will not open up the use of what is called the Clean Development Mechanism until 2008, because we believe that the industry should commit itself to implementing the reductions nationally. So we have made a proposal that is different from what the Workers' Party agreed to in St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001. We had hoped it could have been a compromise for which we could have gathered a broad majority. Unfortunately, this was not the case, but we are still promoting the proposal. We do this from the simple explanation that our proposal leads to stronger reductions than the government's arrangement, and that it is a better arrangement for industry and for all the jobs in the districts that it is about. We have promoted a scheme that is a third possibility for the Government. Tonight, when we are going to vote on the proposals, I will already inform you that the Workers' Party will vote in favour of the vote I that the Stortinget asks the Government to have a close dialogue with the industry. It should be unnecessary for government parties to promote such a proposal in a committee position, but we will not vote against it. We will vote for it, in the hope that the Government in the Odelstingsproposition will come back with an arrangement that is more flexible, more predictable and that results in greater reductions than the government has now proposed. I would like to bring up the proposals that the Workers' Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e346	Synnove Konglevoll has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e351	There is a lot you agree on, and I'll come back to that more later. We agree on the recognition of our responsibilities. This also applies to industry, said the representative of Konglevoll. I would like to point out that the industry is perhaps the one that has done the most in this area. As seen, the industry is not also «also», but industry must also continue its commitment to climate change emissions. The parties to the government have not been involved in all the proposals, that is quite correct. A number of proposals have been put forward, and it is clear that many of them can be examined, assessed and passed on, but it is not possible to decide on a number of new proposals over the table and say that we agree. It's a little bit daunting when you talk about these 30 percent and 20 percent and you think that one is much better than the other. I am not interested in the debate all the time about who is best. What we must now be interested in is how to implement good measures that really improve the environment, reduce climate change and at the same time have the second thought in mind, that industry must also survive. That's why there's a number of things that we're concerned about in this message. We're concerned about achieving the 20 pst goal, which I think is as good as the 30 percent if you compare apples and apples and oranges and oranges. It's also how we want to work more on electrification of the socket, which we think is one of the most important things that you should do in the future. But we have proposed that these things should be done in cooperation with industry, not least because we need to see what the European Union is doing and what the other countries are doing, so that we get out well in sum. We want offensive environmental policies, and we want to do so in cooperation with industry. I can't see that we're going to make a fight here about who's most environmentally friendly. We're going to make sure that things are done. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e362	The representative Onarheim won't have a fight about who's the most environmentally friendly, and he makes himself the spokesperson for the industry. What is so good about the proposal proposed by the Workers' Party is that it is actually a proposal that we can combine the two things: we can bring about strong reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, while at the same time providing predictability for industry. The reason why the industry is so negative to the proposal put forward by the Government is that there is a rather high cost of implementing measures on quotas in Norway. If measures are to be implemented that will reduce emissions so much that an allowance can be sold, a high quota price will soon be achieved. If industry is to pay such a quota price, it will be expensive for industry, especially for some of the most vulnerable sectors of industry. That is why we have put forward a proposal for industry to join forces in constructive cooperation, for example. to find out that in this enterprise we can join together in a split layer in order to bring about a reduction that the industry as a whole can benefit from. It is a proposal that will make it more predictable, while at the same time triggering good concrete measures in industry, thus making industry better equipped at the time we have ahead of us, where there will be ever more stringent requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e369	In the process of presenting this case, the Labour Party has been very unclear on the issue of national allowances for 2002. There have been various signals in the media, and when you read the setting, it helps to create even more uncertainty and confusion. It is in the setting in a note from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party: ‘It is also important that Norway implements measures that deliver significant emission reductions before the entry into force of the international allowance system from 2008.’» What are ‘substantial emission reductions’? Is that more than what the Government proposes, or is it less? It goes on to say: ‘If an allowance system is to function well, it is necessary to include several types of establishments and a larger geographical area.’;» What is the concept of ‘larger geographical area’ when talking about a national quota system? And in the case of «multiple activities», what are the activities to be affected by a national quota system, any charges? If you look a little further in the special remarks of the Labour Party, it says that: ‘desires, however, to base an allowance system for that sector for the period before 2008 by allocating a total allowance of 70 pst. in relation to 1990 emissions, and that the industry as a whole implements, by agreement, measures with the greatest effect'. What happens if new enterprises are established and production is increased? Production in Norway is thus achieved by the purest energy available, namely hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e395	I have some problems understanding how the representative of Korsberg can make it clear that we have been unclear in the media in relation to what we think about an early national quota system. We have said nothing in the media other than what we came up with after we had evaluated it for a period of time and promoted our suggestions in the setting. We have not had any different views on this matter. We have put forward a proposal on this in the Innst. S. No 240. We believe that this is the best proposal, and we all believe that it is. So ask the representative of Korsberg what are significant reductions. The answer is that with the reductions that we are proposing, which could come through the measures we have proposed, for example. Converting fossil fuels to bioenergy and to new renewable energy will result in greater reductions than will be the case with the Government's scheme. So we don't want an early national quota system, until 2008, precisely on the basis of the arguments that it has to be a larger geographical area, i.e. more countries, and that it has to be wider than what it is added to the option. That is why we are in favour of a ‘bobble solution’ from 2005-2008. When the Kyoto Protocol enters into force in 2008, the situation will be different. Then it is that the Workers' Party has made a proposal, subjected to such a quota system in St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001 to which it has been added in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e404	I want to start by giving the Workers' Party a boost for good cooperation on the action page before 2005. I have a question for the representative, Kollevoll, about the Arbeiderpartiet will also join II about electrification of the socket, which is now in the setting. Otherwise, the numerical magic in this case is quite accommodating. The Labour Party claims that their climate policy is more offensive and that their proposals for the quota system are more offensive. They want to reduce emissions for the ETS sector by 30 pst. instead of our wish for 20 pst. Here the Workers' Party takes a "russer". The ‘Russian’ in this context is the name of ‘hot air’, non-existent reductions. Norway, like almost all other industrialised countries, has distanced itself from this calculation. But here, the Workers' Party introduces the concept of Norwegian climate policy. We can subtract the emissions from factory closures or planned closures from the Workers' Party's 30 pst reduction target. on 1990 emissions. Then one to 20 pst. real reductions, and this is the Government’s objective. At the same time, the Workers' Party writes in the setting for the notification that they should decrease to 11.8 million tonnes of CO2. This is in pure tonnes a less ambitious target than the Government's design. When we keep future deposits outside, we're down by 10.7 million tons of CO2. It is possible that 11.8 million tonnes in the internal world of the Workers' Party are less than 10.7 million tonnes, but in the real world we call this tricking with numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e413	With regard to the Roman number proposal on electrification, I would like to point out that we have a proposal that is much more offensive than the proposal for which there is a majority, namely to consider different conditions for electrification. We have a proposal to start work on electrification of the socket. We believe that this is a much better proposal. So to the claim of the representative Vaggen Malvik that the majority's 20 pst. reduction is more than our proposal of 30 pst. reduction. The representative Malvik came here with a figure from the pulpit, 10.7 million tons. My question is then: if this is the actual number that this proposal will lead to, why can't you write it in the settings? If there is to be a hold in the argument of the representative Vaggen Malvik, the Minister for the Environment has to confirm that figure in the course of today's debate, and that would in the event that we get a new moment into the debate. But the problem with the majority setup that we can read in the setting is that we don't get any concrete number to deal with, and it's impossible to get a clear answer to how the government parties intend to calculate. And then they also say that's what they're going to get back to in the proposition. For example, the majority of the Committee has a note on page 11, which, in one note, describes objectives in ways that can be understood differently. In the first section, reference is made to ‘that the Government’s ambition is a 20 pst. the reduction of emissions in 1990 for these sectors for the period 2005-2007, i.e. the emissions in 1990 minus 20 pst. However, the section below states that ‘the government’s approach will stimulate new measures to reduce overall emissions by 20 pst. in existing industry». And then you have to ask, what does existing industry mean? The one that existed in 1990? The one that exists today, so that closures should be counted? Or the one that exists in 2005-2008? This is very unclear, and it would have been nice if the council could clear up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e422	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e425	Norway has ratified the Kyoto Protocol as one of the first countries. It happened on 21 May this year. This is a protocol which obliges. Norway is among the world's largest oil and gas producers, so that we build our prosperity on what is among the main causes of global climate emissions, namely fossil fuels. The speech of experts and researchers is largely unambiguous. We are facing a major challenge in limiting greenhouse gas emissions in order to avoid major and dramatic climate change globally. Maybe they're not to avoid, but we can do something active in terms of limiting the scale. We have a responsibility especially in recognizing that changes in the climate primarily affect those parts of the world that have the most difficult history, namely the Third World. The UNFCCC with the Kyoto Protocol represents important milestones in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. However, the Kyoto Protocol, which includes emissions obligations for developed countries for the period 2008-2012, is only a first step. Far greater emission reductions need to be able to prevent undesirable climate developments. St.meld. No 54 for 2000–2001, Norwegian climate policy, was presented by the government of Stoltenberg in June 2001. The PCF joined the main features of this message. However, the Government has submitted an Additional Communication to the Norwegian Climate Policy based on a wish, which is also set out in the Sem Declaration, to pursue a more offensive climate policy over the period 2005-2007, i.e.: before the first Kyoto period expires in 2008. In its additional Communication, the Government proposes the introduction of a national ETS from 2005 and the implementation of a number of other national measures. The Government will: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by introducing an allowance scheme for the period 2005-2007 for emission sources that do not currently have a CO2 tax, where this is practicable to include emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases from the energy and emission intensive industry and, where appropriate, other activities that together account for approximately. 30 pst. of the Norwegian emissions at the level of ambition shall be a 20 pst reduction. in relation to the 1990 emissions adjusted for closures and extensions in the period open to a limited joint national implementation compared to emission sources which do not have a responsibility or which would be burdensome and costly to assign a responsible operator for the use of allowances authorised under the Kyoto Protocol that Norway should cooperate with other countries to develop an international allowance market and that we ourselves should have an offensive attitude to this development internationally allocate allowances free of charge on the basis of historical emissions in a way that helps to prevent the relocation of activities from Norway and trigger reductions in emissions establish an effective and appropriate reporting and control regime to charge for breach of the quota obligation on the basis of a target to achieve emission reductions in Norway, and taking into account that the climate costs of those subject to allowances before 2008 do not become so high that they result in closures of activities that will be viable in the 2008–2012 Kyoto Protocol commitment period 2008–2012 In the case of fees, it is important to note the majority opinion of the Committee on the return of fees to the industry for conversion and technological development. Furthermore, the Government will extend the allowance obligation to other sectors from 2008 onwards so that the allowance system becomes the main instrument for fulfilling the obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. It shall also promote an out-of-the-box proposal with proposals for the legalisation of the quota system. The main objective of introducing an early allowances system is to trigger additional cost-effective measures in Norway. In addition, we believe that the quota system could have an important learning effect and thus make a strong contribution to our being prepared to meet the requirements and mechanisms set out in 2008. The 2005 national quota system is particularly hard on the process industry. Until now, this industry has not paid CO2 or other taxes on its climate emissions. It is worth noting that the Government is warning that the design of the national quota system will take place in a close dialogue with industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e483	I have listened with interest to the representatives of Meling's posts and noted in particular the attempts to explain to them what the right party is really contributing to applying Norwegian business and Norwegian industry here today. It can't be easy for a party that has been trying to make itself a business party for many years to stand here today and defend a policy that puts many businesses and tens of thousands of jobs at risk. I would therefore like to ask: why in the world has the Right not listened to the industry in this matter and accepted the extended hand from there to conclude agreements instead of injunctions and prohibitions? And what does the Right mean that, in retrospect, after the adoption of a national quota regime, a dialogue with the industry, as it says in the 'I' position? This must be the last team.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e490	From individual teams and parties, including: from the Progress Party, it has been made the utmost to blackmail the impact of the 2005 government climate policy. For my part, I feel that it must be because of ignorance about what the Government is actually warning. Fortunately, I'm not alone in that perception. It is nice to record that the investment will and the belief in the future are in place in this sector. An article in the Evening Post of 11 June mentions an investment of 600 million. kr at the Amersham factory at Lindesnes. 14 June, today's Business could tell that Finnish Outokumpu will bet approx. $2.5 billion in Nordzink, Odda. In addition, we know that there are investments in aluminiumworks at Husnes, in Sunndal and in Lake Mosjö for approx. $8 billion. It testifies to the willingness to invest and confidence in the Government regarding the design of the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e497	There is a lot of good in the setting that you want to wrap around. There is a common desire from everyone to reduce climate change. When Onarheim said instead that what the industry had done was very good, and that they had to get the opportunity to go on reducing emissions, I totally agree with that. But when the same Onarheim says to today's business yesterday that the industry now needs to be trained in quota trading, I disagree with that. What industry needs, of course, is to reduce emissions, but it must be done in such a way that our industry, which is most environmentally friendly, which produces the most environmentally friendly of all, can survive. Because no one is interested in the disappearance of the industry we have today. Then it's not enough to name Nordzink, because it's not the ones that will be framed in Odda, it's actually Tinfos. The process industry is, of course, very busy with quotas, but very disagreed with what the government says. The dialogue with industry should have been in the forefront and not after the decision has been taken in the Storting. When the information director of PIL says that there might be no allowance trading until 2008, because buying allowances could be more expensive than paying a fee, nothing has been achieved. If the industry can buy out of this by paying a fee that is set so low that they don't do anything to reduce their emissions, it doesn't make it clear that you're busy with getting the industry to reduce emissions. Right has always been, like the Workers' Party, the concern that we should have an industry for which demands must be made. But this is the wrong way to go. The dialogue with industry must come about before the decision is taken. Otherwise, they can pay off. So the question to the right is, what do they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e513	We are not at all in disagreement with the fact that the process industry in Norway is probably the most environmentally friendly in the world. Clearly, compared to climate emissions, we have nothing to do with exporting jobs with strict environmental requirements in Norway to other parts of the world with less stringent environmental requirements. That's why we're just concerned about ensuring future competitiveness for this part of the industry. We also believe that this industry must be able to survive. The representative asks if there will be a trading of allowances. The quota system is being put in place, and it could in itself encourage trading in quotas. But just as important in this training period, if we look at it with the quotas, the other mechanisms are on development projects in the Third World. So the training effect on business will go on more than just quota trading. It will also focus on using the other Kyoto mechanisms. It is important for industry to be in advance when the Kyoto period comes into force from 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e520	After listening to Ranveig Frøiland's reply, I have actually become even more confused as to what the Workers' Party really believes in this matter. But now leave it. Climate policy exacerbates the framework conditions for the Norwegian process industry. Nordland County did a meeting on the 10th. 13th. This year, on a proposal from the Right, the following unanimous decision: ‘Climate policy is exacerbating the framework conditions for Norwegian industry’. The Workers' Party has also participated in the decision. The Center Party has also been involved in the decision. The Labour Party has also had its own proposals that go in the same direction. What they are concerned about is distortions of competition and the fact that the process industry is getting worse framework conditions than competitors in other countries. My question to Siri A. Meling is: why does the Right also choose in this matter to overrun the wishes of the community, its political colleagues who sit around in state governments, county councils and local government? We have received a number of such recordings in relation to the treatment of the Kyoto message. I'll ask the representative Meling to explain why the Right shows such arrogant behavior.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e529	I'm definitely going to reject that we're going to have an arrogant behavior in relation to these things. First of all, it is to recognise the challenge we face in terms of the global climate challenge. That recognition is far from where the Progress Party stands. So initially, it's clear that we're quite disagreeable. Until climate policy worsens the situation of the Norwegian process industry. If we don't do anything, if we don't do anything in relation to preparing the industry for the international commitments that will come from 2008, we're not doing our job. Now, when we say that the actual practical approach and design of this national quota system is to take place in a close dialogue with industry in order to find good solutions that both safeguard climate considerations and competitiveness, there is a clear and very clear signal from this room that we expect will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e539	It could be hoped that the Right could have spoken to industry and its communities before the process of climate communication began. Since it is football World Cup, I want to start in good sports spirit by congratulating SV on the winner of the Norwegian industry. It must be a joyous day for SV people in this house to take a long step to get rid of the industry here to land. The fact that SV has been tricked on the right side of the team must be the transition of time to change the political position. It's just to record that the Right has used a lot of strange reasoning to liquidate its industrial policy Let me, for example, use the Leif Frode Onarheim play on Monday, where Onarheim says to Today's Business: ‘I feel it provides a good opportunity to focus on reducing emissions and it provides training in the trading of allowances.’ Let me continue to quote from Monday’s Business Life under the heading ‘Kyoto quotas pointless’. Bright Holtsmark in the Statistical Central Bureau says the following: ‘When it is used as an argument that businesses need to ‘train’ on the trading of allowances, it says something about how complicated this solution is. No one needs to ‘train’ to pay taxes.’ It is a pity that the Right has forgotten that Norwegian business and industry are overrun in terms of paying taxes. If foreign industry or others need it, Norway is an excellent country to be in training camp to pay sky high, strange taxes! It is only to be noted that SV has got the government parties, with the Right in the head, to give Norwegian industry far worse competitive conditions than industrial enterprises established in other countries. The Workers' Party has criticized the Government's climate action to be anti-industrial. The working party has harvested a lot of praise for speaking the industry's case and showing sense in relation to expensive and less useful climate measures in the Norwegian industry. However, the working party has forgotten to tell the whole truth. In the work on climate action, the Labour Party calls for a more ambitious climate policy. It is bold in the light of the aggressive ambitions of Right, Christian People's Party and SV. The Workers' Party will have extraordinary climate action in industry in the period before the Kyoto Protocol is implemented. The Workers' Party proposes an industrial quota system and even criticises the Government's early quota system for being narrow and strange. How they've got the news that they're negative to the quota system, to me, is a mystery. In fact, the Workers' Party's proposal means that there will be fewer allowances for industry than the Government proposes, 70 pst. of the 1990 emissions against the Government’s 80 pst. The working party stresses that it should not be profitable to buy free of action, it should cost! In addition, Norwegian industry is denied the possibility of reducing emissions by financing environmental measures abroad, where costs are much lower and the effects are much higher. On the other hand, the Workers' Party dreams of major eco-innovations, funded by a carbon fund. In view of what the Workers' Party is proposing on the Stortinget, their beautiful words to industry are far from worthless. In total, the Workers' Party's climate policy is as bad as the Government's and SVs. The measures proposed by the Government, the SV and the Workers' Party before the Kyoto Protocol is implemented globally are a direct attack on the Norwegian industry. Global demand for goods is not affected by Norwegian climate legislation. Industrial production does not disappear, it only moves abroad, and it is a bad tool in the so-called global environmental policy. The desire of the other parties for Norway to be an environmental policy priority country must not frustrate a living business here in the country. The Progress Party will ensure an equivalent level playing field for Norwegian business with competitors abroad, as we also propose. We need to avoid excessive climate action, such as specular trading of allowances or charging. It would be totally hopeless for Norwegian industry if the bulk of the population now decided that the industry would start a national quota system from 2005. For industrial enterprises, this will result in increased costs and distortions of competition with regard to foreign competitors. The problem with a strange quota system will also be that we do not know how it will harmonise with a foreign system that comes later, if it does. We should therefore refrain from a quota system in Norway in 2005 and wait for the launch of a broad international system to which we can connect. The fact that the Norwegian industry is going to take the costs with the learning effect is going to be hopeless in our view. The party notes that Norwegian industry has a well-developed environmental awareness. Many cost-effective reductions in so-called greenhouse gas emissions have already been implemented. Assessment of cost and impact must be a basis for further action. Norwegian industry needs to make full use of the Kyoto mechanisms to invest in climate action abroad. Most Kyoto instruments depend on an international system if they are to have some effect without destroying national industry. The government deliberately prevents Norwegian industry from exploiting the international opportunities available. It is obvious that it is much cheaper to reduce emissions from old coal-fired power plants abroad than at modern and environmentally friendly plants in Norway. Any reductions nationally should be made through voluntary agreements where the industry itself finds cost-effective instruments. The cold and heat pump industry wants to use a voluntary agreement to meet the requirements for greenhouse gas reduction. The industry has already established a fee and mortgage system for HFCs/PFCs. A CO2 tax on these gases will undermine the industry’s own established fee and mortgage systems and the other emission reduction measures already undertaken by the industry. The imposition of such a charge in Norway will impose increased costs on Norwegian enterprises compared to enterprises in other countries that are not subject to a similar charge. It is therefore strange that government parties and SV will impose taxes on a well-functioning industry, which takes the so-called greenhouse gas emissions seriously. The Progress Party sees no need to risk Norwegian business to ensure Norway a symbolic environmental star. The Progress Party must only accept that the other parties here in the House accept the climate panel's attitude towards man-made global warming. What we are calling for is a more nuanced climate debate that can contribute to more knowledge before we possibly take as far-reaching measures as climate communication requires. It is also amazing that there has not been a thorough pre-debate in Norway, just an action debate based on the climate panel’s premises. Just so there should be no doubt, the Progress Party is as sceptical as before to the weather forecast of the Climate Panel. The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol will have significant national costs over a long period of time. Actions in most areas of society will cost considerable amounts and require far-reaching changes in the social structure. In addition, it will have an impact on export revenue, including through a reduction in oil price. That is why we believe and propose that the Government should provide a more detailed overview of what this will cost the Norwegian society. What costs are, doesn't seem to bother the other parties here on the house because they don't support our proposal. From today's climate announcement we have received many input messages. From industry we have received a lot of good arguments that we should not introduce strange taxes and a national quota system. What industry has said they must have is long-term framework conditions, an international quota system and be allowed to use the Kyoto mechanisms in full. We have received the same arguments from trade unions, from employees, from communities and also, as I mentioned earlier in a reply here, from our peoples around the country. That is why we are disappointed that the other parties do not seem to support our proposals in the vote, which I am promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e600	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e605	In the Norwegian climate debate, where at times it may be difficult for people other than those who are particularly interested to follow all the concepts that are raging around, the Progress Party must have one thing: they are predictable, and they are quite easy to deal with – they are running their own race. I see in particular a note in this setting that expresses the attitude of the Progress Party very well, when they write on page 6 of the setting: ‘If the climate panel is actually correct in its analysis, the damage is already so extensive and the proposals for climate action under the Kyoto Protocol are so limited that they have little effect.’ Therefore, we should refrain from introducing measures. Either that's not true what they say, or it's so bad that we don't have to do anything. Well, that's kind of some kind of logic, too. But in its eagerness to do nothing, the Progress Party has forgotten that it is actually possible to implement environmental measures while ensuring Norwegian industry. And when the county council in Nordland protests, it's against the government's arrangement they protest, while what the Labour Party and the Center Party have proposed is a scheme that industry can live with, while it's a demanding scheme. That's right, because we believe that when we give more flexibility and predictability, we also have to set higher standards. In addition, a carbon fund will also be set up to develop and establish new environmentally friendly technologies. Therefore, my question to the representative of Korsberg is: can he clean up a little in whom it is, for example. The county council in Nordland or the trade union protests against?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e622	To take the last one first, both the county council in Northern Ireland and other local policy forums protest against distortions of competition for Norwegian industry. That's what this is about. Whether it is the majority of the government parties and the SV, or whether it is the Labour Party's policy, does not really matter, because the Labour Party's policy is as bad as the Government and the SV have jointly cooked. As I think the representative of Konglevoll should read some of the recordings we have received from the communities around the country that are being affected by this decision that is to be taken today. It is not quite right that the Progress Party is running its own race in the climate debate. That's also going to be s. The difference is that SV has got right and the government parts with them on their course. I congratulated them initially on the victory. I just hope we have an opportunity to play a return game, but I'm not so sure. In this respect, of course, with the Climate Panel, we take into account that some of the predictions included in the Climate Panel can be correct. However, I record that the Workers' Party and SV are essentially confident that the predictions that the Climate Panel comes with are correct. They take no reservation that there may be other things, natural things, that affect our climate. So that we've had about 30 ice ages in Norway, you choose to ignore it, and that it was warmer a thousand years ago, you choose to ignore it. They use the precautionary principle. Before the precautionary principle, it may also be that special measures are avoided before a causal relationship is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e631	I have to be allowed to thank you for all the brilliance that SV gets. It is true that SV has some victories to show. It's not just about the climate message, yesterday there was a parental payment in kindergarten, and earlier it's been a 40 pst. scholarship part. So we have some victories lately that it's important to remember. It's clear that we'd like to have a return fight with the Progress Party, both in the basement and here, as we've done before. But if it were as simple as Korsberg wants it to! The problem is that once the Minister of the Environment and the Government have decided something that tends to be offensive – that is, there are some offensive measures – they jump to the Progress Party and engage in budgetary cooperation, which makes it impossible to get a proper offensive, as SV wants. That's my dilemma: the party of progress becomes a brake on achieving a truly offensive climate policy, so that's how the Progress Party also wins, unfortunately, in budgetary terms – and not for the benefit of the environment. The party of progress is trying to appear to be the industry's major defender. They do so by maintaining their old industrial policy in a way at the Workers' Party. The more dirty it is, the more money it takes. Actually, it sounds like a desire to import some old smoking factories from the third world and move them up here. It may seem like the Progress Party's policy. One does not want an offensive environmental policy. My question to the Progress Party: When they lose in the first round, why will they not be in favour of the proposal that SV has to develop technology, help companies to become more offensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e642	When it comes to the fight for return in the basement, I think it's an advantage for both the undersigned and for Langeland too that we play on the team, so we avoid major damage. The times we play on the team, it tends to go really well, if SV does its job. With regard to the Progress Party and the Government, it has been said in the past by government councils that cooperation has helped to strengthen environmental protection in Norway. So you have to take that with you. When it comes to moving abroad, if any, industrial companies that pollute significantly, it may be a good idea, so these companies can go under the environmental legislation we have here in Norway, which is probably the most stringent. But as I said in my post, I don't think any sensible business owners take the chance of moving to a country as special as Norway, where business needs to train to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e651	The President hopes that this good atmosphere will stay to 1-2 tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e654	At least I'm not going to contribute to the damage of the atmosphere beyond the evening. I must be allowed to say that is what I agree with Synnøve Konglevoll, it is that the Progress Party is very predictable in environmental policy, or the lack of environmental policy. So sometimes we evaluate whether it has any intention of running a cord changer. Nevertheless, I feel that there is reason to do so, because the Progress Party is actually drawing a picture of the consequences of this quota system that is far more dramatic than what the process industry itself is doing. We've been given signals in the last few days from parts of the process industry, which is actually saying that we can live with this, we're taking this as a challenge, precisely because, in parallel with introducing a flexible quota system, which is predictable, we're putting in clear leadership to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. These two things have the co-operation government okay to attend to, we don't stand on one side or the other, we can combine this. So Øyvind Korsberg has been involved in the leading precautionary principle in his post and in the line change and used it in a slightly strange way. I recall that in the context of the debate on Sellafield, the Progress Party agreed with the following assessment at home: The fact that we do not fully know the consequences of the release from Sellafield makes it necessary that we act now. Why is the Progress Party not using exactly the same principle as regards climate policy? That's the one question. The second question concerns the concept of ‘serious’, which has become a troubling expression in the debate in Norway, particularly in environmental policy. What does the representative of Corsberg think of most European countries as actually talking about, for example, special-scientific and special-purpose measures? Here just a week ago, the Danish process industry was out and concerned about special Danish instruments that would put Danish industry in a competitively unfortunate situation. Does the Korsberg and the Progress Party live in a notion that climate problems are only a matter for Norway, and that is only a challenge for Norwegian industry, Norwegian business, or does one innovate that there is actually a whole lot going on around Europe and in individual countries, where everyone expresses exactly the same concern: we should do something, just not get any strange taxes, it can be dangerous?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e665	The president said it was a good environment. It is always a good environment that the Progress Party is. The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, was concerned that parts of the process industry were happy and satisfied with what had happened. I'll get to quote what's on PIL's websites: ‘PIL strongly regrets the fact that the Storting is engaged by a limited majority in the trading of allowances for parts of industry. PIL’s proposal for a solution would, with far less red tape and at lower costs for both businesses and the public, ensure at least an equally good result for the environment.’ So the PIL is not as much satisfied with the state of things as the representative Rahm is trying to give the impression. In the case of Sellafield, it is reasonably simple. Emissions from Sellafield can be traced directly to Norway. It's actually real emissions, and there's problems there's going to be something to do with, reasonably simple. In the case of exceptional measures and framework conditions, it is also in the concept that we want to facilitate the conditions for Norwegian industry and to make the strange measures so good that it is interesting for the industry to be here to land, and would like others to establish themselves. With regard to the views of the Progress Party on climate change and costs, we just need to remind the representative of Rahm that neither the United States, Canada, nor Australia seems to want to ratify this agreement. One is that costs are too high, and the other is that there is more doubt as to whether the measures to possibly stop man-made climate change are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e688	We have developed a life and consumption pattern in Norway that can lead us to cross earth's and creation's tolerance limits in many areas. We're vulnerable to the slow, creepy changes that have caused us not to take care of nature and manage resources properly. The terrorist attack on September 11 showed us how vulnerable we are. But we're vulnerable not only when it comes to measures that shake up an entire value. We don't fully know the sequences of the man-made impurity. Nevertheless, we have the right to manage and use, but not to consume and destroy the earth's resources. I'm surprised when I hear people talking about environmental hysteria. Should we not be the first to fend for creation and take care of creation, where man is the supreme creature in the lack of the fine interaction that the creation represents? Changes in consumption patterns have changed a lot in the last 30 to 40 years, and the impacts of resource use and lifestyles are beginning to develop. When the Energy and Environment Committee was on Svalbard in May, we got right from the scientific environment where there is a huge imbalance in processes in the sea, on land and in the atmosphere. Many indicate that our use of resources leads to climate change. Researchers at the University of Norwich last week showed that the average global temperature in January, February and March this year was about 0.7 degrees above the average temperature in the years 1961 to 1990. This may not be related to emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere, but it is very likely that the researchers say it. This is clear enough that in the Christian People's Party we will take the necessary steps to reverse developments. The size decided today, laying the basis for such a reverse operation. The trustee's responsibility requires that we be guided and ensure that the further development is guided in a sustainable direction. In 1990 there were about 5.1 billion people on earth. In 2000, it was about 6.3 billion. In 2020, there may be about 8 billion people on earth according to forecasts. There may be two development options. One is at 20 pst. by human beings on earth consume 80 pst. of resources, and the remaining 80 pst. shall deal with approximately 20 pst. of resources. The second option is that we get approximately equal distribution of resources. Then there could be enough food and other resources for 8 billion people. These numbers are uncertain, yes well, but the seriousness is not less for that reason. It is encouraging that the main principle of the Cooperative Government’s additional message is now adopted in the Stortinget. We get multiple numbers together with SV, which has been working systematically, for a national quota system that is going to work in 2005. It is three years before other countries in question have to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. The national allowance system shall be a narrow system, whereby the sectors which have not yet paid the CO2 tax shall enter. It mainly applies to the process industry. This system will ensure that the most cost-effective reduction measures are implemented, and it will ensure valuable learning when countries enter the broad international system set up by the Kyoto Protocol in 2008. This ensures an efficient and flexible system in which companies that make larger reductions can get quotas left over. These activities can be sold to enterprises with more expensive measures. Different activities have different means of achieving emission reductions. The government wants a dialogue with the industry both about the end of the quota system and about the distribution of allowances between the companies. The cumulative allocation shall be based on a 20 pst. reduction, but this reduction does not necessarily have to be distributed equally between industries and enterprises. The principle is fixed, we're going to have a national quota system that will give the best way to cut emissions in Norway. The Additional Communication states that the Government will assume, by its final design, that no business that is profitable with an international allowance price under the Kyoto Agreement will be required to move out as a result of particularly high climate costs before 2008. The Labour Party has claimed that the system we get multiples for today is not targeted enough and will only lead to industry being shut down and moved out of the country. I would like to comment on this. An important element of the Workers' Party's proposal is that works that are being laid down should be included in the emissions target. ‘Bobla’, as it is called, is determined by a reduction in total emissions in 1990, without adjustments for downgraded enterprises. This may only indicate that the system can stimulate new shutdowns. Work parity has claimed in the debate today that their systems are more ambitious than the national quota system. Corrected for closures, their arrangements are hardly more ambitious than the government's objectives. Finally, the Labour Party proposes that the target be achieved only by 2008. Therefore, the emission may be higher in the period until then. The government's plan is to allocate allowances based on a 20 pst. reduction for the whole 2005-2007 period. A national allowance system is only part of the more ambitious climate policy proposed by the Co-operation Board. In addition, we have got multiple numbers for a number of actions that will help us achieve the goals we have committed ourselves to. A charge shall be established for HFC and PFC greenhouse gases and the established collection bodies shall be maintained. These gases are mostly present in electrical appliances such as refrigerators and freezers. Furthermore, there are several numbers to evaluate a reimbursement scheme that restores the fee to the company responsible for the collection. Over half of the CO2 emissions in Norway come from the socket, and almost 3⁄4 of the CO2 emissions are expected to come here. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to consider measures to realise electrification projects on the base. The Committee further asks the Government to launch an introduction programme for the use of biofuels to increase its volume in Norway. A more efficient use of energy is also important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. If we are more able to put a strain on heating from energy sources other than electricity, we have made an important contribution to climate work. The Committee therefore calls on the Government to assess the means of stimulating water-borne heat in larger barley. The Christian People's Party believes that the garbage for a large part represents substantial resources. Many more of the trash can be reused or burned for energy. Once again, heat may be transported through the water well. In order to prevent greenhouse gas emissions from landfills, changes in the final treatment charge for waste have to be made on the basis of climate considerations. In this context, the majority of the Committee points out that the Government of the Supplementary Communication states that they will consider a ban on the landfill of waste that can be degraded. It is a good idea to note that today there will be a multiplicity of ambitious climate policies. But we politicians can't do this alone. I am pleased with the commitment that has been from many volunteer teams, organizations and individuals who have given us good advice on the way in the process. Volunteer organisations, individuals and businesses must work together to ensure that this is closed. Anyone can give his or her acknowledgment. The decision later today is the beginning of this work. It is necessary for us in Norway to be involved in a sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e727	A unilateral national quota regime, as the representative Lioness spoke about, will create major disadvantages for Norwegian industry compared to industry in other countries with which we compete. There is no doubt about this. The government and the majority of the population don't seem to care about this in particular. The most important thing is obviously to conduct symbol policies and be the best in the class. As a result, many companies will have major problems, tens of thousands of jobs can be lost, and we risk that large parts of the industrial production we have will move out of the country. Will the representative Liones give me a single sensible explanation of the global environmental benefit that will be achieved by exporting large parts of this industry to other countries, where energy production is largely based on coal power? The result must be the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e736	It's okay to get such a question, because then I can expand it with the allowance system, both the one-sided national allowance system and the allocation else. It may be difficult to get the differences between the different systems even from the media debate that has been going on, but I'll try to make things simple, how we think about it, and how the cooperation organisation thinks about it implemented. If we were to have a bubble -- that's a strange word -- and so it should be allocated to collecting quotas for the process industry, and the PIL itself would take care of it, that would lead to quotas becoming commodities. And that's not what it's going to focus on, but reducing climate change. It is more natural to have contact with the individual enterprises, to take as a basis the level of emissions they had in 1990, and then to write it out. If they have reduced their activity, they may not be allocated. If they have increased production, the allocation may increase. This would be a system to control. Then it's clear goal – 20 pst. reduction, starting from 1990. It's different if one should also allocate allowances to the industry according to the activities that have been laid down. It is a much more complex system. I am overconfident that the industry – and we have had many conversations with representatives of the PIL – will also be able to participate and, for its part, to obtain information in order to have a transparent and clearly defined system. No one will get so crooked that they will be forced to shut down before 2008, if they would not otherwise do so under the Kyoto Protocol. This is not about running symbol policies. On the contrary, it is clear and visible. It has also led to strong reactions. There is no doubt about what the Government will and what the majority will do today. So I don't think there's any danger that there will be an export of this industry to the rest of the world. We need it here, and here it can also happen in an environmentally sound way, in cooperation with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e750	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e753	It has been stressed many times today that climate communication is very important in both national and global contexts. Of course, the Central Party fully agrees with this. Environmentally, biodiversity, desertification and climate change are the three main environmental challenges in the world. Of these, we believe that climate change is the most serious threat. In the vote, the Committee is, of course, not agreed on all things, but most of them want Norway to be a leading country in meeting the climate commitments we have undertaken under the Kyoto agreement, and that we are going to introduce an allowance system from 2008. In particular, there are instruments for the period 2005-2007 and some sectoral measures on which there is some disagreement. When you're as far out in the talking rack as you are now, it's probably not that much new to come with. The only thing that had to be is to introduce the term "contract-based allowances" because it's basically where we end up. But I'd like to explain why the Senter Party does not join the majority system of early quotas, but thinks it's better with a different system. Firstly, we are talking about the period 2005-2007. It's very short time. Second, we don't think this will work according to purpose. The multiplicity proposal envisages the introduction of a strange, narrow quota system covering only some types of establishments. This means that the powerful process industry is under disproportionate pressure. We risk that Norwegian enterprises, several of them in districts with very few other business opportunities, can be closed down and production moved to countries without emission restrictions, where climate change emissions per year. the unit produced is much higher than in Norway. An allowance system will only function as intended when it becomes international and many different sectors are involved. So this is why the Centre Party has found it right to move towards an early quota system from 2005 to 2008. The waste sector must also be included when it comes to climate policy. There is a wide-ranging problem that not only has to do with methane emissions. In a use and throw-society like ours, unfortunately, there will be a lot of garbage, and transport often becomes long. It's an environmental problem in itself. It may be greater if the investment is made in very large facilities where the waste is transported from a large area. It is easy to say that bans are to be imposed on the landfill of biodegradable waste, but good solutions are different. One must be aware that there are several plants using the methane gas from the landfill to the production of electric current or to heating systems. It is important not to ignore this type of plant but to receive a specific treatment. This must also be a form of re-use of resources. We have a high power consumption in Norway. This is too noble for it to be used much for heating. It is therefore necessary to turn consumption into energy sources other than electricity. Enova is becoming very important in this area. The company needs to be given more money so that it can effectively accelerate the process of generating new renewable energy. Biofuels are becoming an important keyword in this area. Efforts need to be significantly increased in order to approach the level of our neighbouring countries. Otherwise, it is good that a majority of the Committee is in favour of modernising existing hydropower structures and indicates that micro- and mini-power plants can be built in all watercourses where there is no significant intervention. As I mentioned in a reply to SV instead, the Workers' Party and the Centre promote a proposal to launch an introduction programme for the use of biofuels. It is a significant contribution to the transport sector, where emissions continue to increase. I hope that the effort in the future will be spent on active work on emission reductions in cooperation with all those involved, so that the discussion of a curious allowance system over a three-year period does not overshadow the long-term and important work. I would also like to end by saying that the Central Party joins the proposals under I and II. That shouldn't have been necessary, but when the government says we're going to cooperate with the industry, we're the first to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e782	As I read through the setting, I could not avoid noticing that the centre party is alone on a small note that underlines that in cases where there is a conflict between the need to preserve biodiversity and to initiate climate action, priority must be given to the action of the climate action. In other words, it must mean that it is better to eradicate species than it is to discharge greenhouse gases. This is at best a little bit weird. Both eradicating a species and releasing greenhouse gases are what we call irreversible environmental problems. I wonder why the center part has this slightly strange remark in the setting. Maybe it's related to the fact that the Center Party is also the only party that throws itself into a very controversial area, that's what goes on absorbing CO2 in a forest. They want this to be included in the quota system as early as possible. This is a very difficult professional field. This is an area where you have to be very careful, so you don't get all figured out. I wonder, why does the Center Party have this zeal? Otherwise, I am very happy that both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party support – almost entirely – the Document No. The 8 proposals that representatives Langeland, Ryan and I have presented ourselves in the field of bioenergy and biofuels. I am particularly pleased with the support to phase out oil firing. It's a big job we're facing. But to the Center Party and to the rest of you, I'd like to say, "Love me, but don't love me." Once, in the form of a note, we've had an impact on biofuels, so please, don't let the proposal be voted down in the Stortinge today, but stand together to get the results. That's what counts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e789	As far as love is concerned, I believe others can take care of it, both in the case of the representative Sørensen and me. I believe that climate change is actually the biggest environmental challenge. The representative Sørensen says that it is not possible to set them up against each other, but for my own part, I believe that climate change is the most serious. It is clear that it will affect biodiversity very quickly. You don't come from that context. That's the one. The second was a tiny note from the Senterpartiet, where it is said that it is important to include CO2 accounting in relation to forest. I believe that it is an important prerequisite for this to be linked to the climate, and it must be linked to active action. Whether or not the forest is gradually to enter the allowance system, it is undeniable that it produces a significant effect in the context of climate change. We are busy with emissions, and then we also have to be concerned about what binds CO2. I think it is deficient that forest and forest policy is not drawn more than what it actually does. It should have been incorporated as part of Norway’s long-term climate policy. It is also important to mention that biofuels want us all to get more of, and then the forest is quite important. In addition, there is one more thing: if we use wood instead of using, for example, wood products. plastic, it will also be quite good in relation to climate. Finally, as far as biofuels are concerned, I think it would be better if it were done the other way around: that in the course of the day – it is good time – convinced the Government to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e800	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e803	Today, a historic environmental decision is being taken. Global warming is, together with the threat to the biological deficiency facing the world’s environmental threat, and by adopting this climate communication, the country is taking the first step towards what needs to be a very long way forward towards more sustainable development. Although there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the temperature increase in the next 50-100 years, there is a great deal of agreement among the vast majority of researchers – although the Progress Party continues to insist on the opposite – that global warming will be significant, and that this warming is due to human activity. The majority in the UK today assumes a long-term responsibility for the environment, well-being and industrial development in Norway. The need to take action against climate change is not about securing our own well-being and future, but primarily about securing the well-being and future of our children and their descendants. When the Progress Party so clearly rejects the whole issue, it is not surprising – this party pursues a consistent anti-environmental policy – but it is highly irresponsible. The left is content to be part of a government that presents an offensive and mandatory climate policy in this matter. The additional message provided by the government of the Left, Christian People's Party and Right is much more ambitious than the workers' party government delivered last year. The left supports the early introduction of national quotas from 2005. The way this allowance system is going to be set up, it's got a good layout. A 20 pst. reducing greenhouse gas emissions from activities covered by the ETS is a realistic but still credible target. The quota system will only be introduced for emissions that are currently not covered by the CO2 tax. This means a significant extension of emissions thus covered by emission reduction measures in Norway. The fact that the Workers' Party and the Centre join forces with the Advance Party against the introduction of a mandatory quota system, and rather want to base themselves on less binding voluntary agreements, is not surprising. The entire Labour Party's period of government in the 1990s was marked by a lot of rhetoric about a sustainable future, the idea of thinking globally and acting locally, but completely unwilling to implement mandatory practical measures. When the Labour Party claims that their proposal is 30 pst. reduction in emissions is more ambitious than the Government's quota proposal, this is more than doubtful, especially because the Workers' Party includes emission reductions resulting from shut-down industries in its calculations. There are not often small countries with the possibility of taking a leading role in international development. The Government and the Socialist Left Party participate in this climate decision that Norway assumes such a leadership role internationally. We take with it an important strategic choice that is important for the environment and that is in the long term also necessary for nutrition policy. This will mean that some investments will have to be made, but we must also be aware that it will be far more expensive in the long term. Finally, I would like to say that the Socialist Left and Left have some of them in very many environmental policy issues. That the Socialist Left Party has now entered into a binding agreement with the Government, we in the Left very much appreciate it, because we actually believe that when these two parties join together with the other parties in the Government, that's the best thing for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e832	I actually didn't intend to take a line on the left today. But even if the representative Vihovde just came into the room, it cannot be undisputed when the representative Vihovde says that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party agree on this matter. This should be clear, among other things. by the members of the Progress Party that they strongly disagree with our proposals and that our proposals actually impose stricter requirements on industry than the Government's proposals do. We believe we can do that, precisely because our proposal is more flexible, it is more predictable, and our proposal will contribute to the conversion of Norwegian industry in a more environmentally friendly direction. This is why it is better environmental policy, and it is better industrial policy. So finally, the representative Vihovde was very pleased with the committed cooperation that SV and the Government have in this matter. I would like to challenge the representative Vihovde if the Government could not then follow up this cooperation and vote for a Document No. 8-proposals that SV has made, but which they are not in the setting, namely to introduce an introduction programme for biofuels. That proposal is not included in the vote because they have joined forces on a note with the government parties in the vote. But why can't the government parties be part of this proposal, which is quite round, but which still has a clear lead signal that we should bet on biofuels and introduce them? It would be sad if the government parties were to contribute to the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e839	Although I have not been in the hall all day, I have been sitting in my office and trying to follow along in the debate. I also record that the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party are not together about all the comments, but I note that they are going in the same direction. I thought it looked like the Workers' Party, which in a good deal of context has shown the ability to think about the environment, think about sustainable development, reverse and stop when it's really indebted. I actually mean that the system of allowances that the Government adds to is the one that will have the greatest effect. It will also give us the ability to convert to our industry, to adapt to a system that comes and that they will then align to, instead of these agreements. Then there are some proposals ahead. But if you go into the setting, there are also some comments from the Christian People's Party and the Right – Left is not in the committee – where they support the intention of these comments. The government has expressed its desire to evaluate some things, and some things have implications for the 2003 budget. These proposals do not want to be supported, but we will await what is coming in the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e850	Several have not asked for the word for a line. If we let go of another speaker, we'll go a little beyond the regulatory time of the morning meeting. We can do that, the president expects the night to be long enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e856	I expected the decisions of the Stortinget today on climate policy to be ambitious, binding and concrete. My claim is that the result we're going to experience during the evening will be the opposite. The government parties ensure that very few of the proposals that could have led to a better environmental policy, an environmental policy such as monks, are given a majority. The period after 2008 is not subject to any particular disagreement. However, for the period up to then, the government receives, through its proposal for a narrow national quota system, supported by SV. I have to say that I had really believed that when SV supports this proposal, they would get something back. As far as I can see, SV has not received support for any of the proposals they would like to support. Everything suggests that the symbols are more important than the reality of these parties in this matter. I must distance myself from some of the claims that have been made during this debate, most recently from the Vihovde of the Left, which said that the Labour Party's proposal is in the same direction as the Progress Party. No, it's wrong. I also distance myself from Korsberg's statement that the Labour Party's policy is as bad as the governing parties and SVs. This is due to its own unfairness, especially when we know that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposals have the support of a single industry, both workers and employers, as well as Bellona. When we are in favour of the process industry reducing its emissions by 30 pst, as opposed to the government parties and by 20 pst., it is a proposal that is better both for the environment and for industry than the proposal that will receive a majority here tonight. Industry wants to work together on the measures instead of being allocated equal quotas to each enterprise, as the majority is in favour tonight. I also think that the cooperation with the authorities on which the industry has cooperated through the sulphur agreement has shown that the industry is willing to take responsibility. The only proposal that the government parties so far seem to gather on, namely to impose on their own government to cooperate with industry, is, to put it mildly, alarming. But it looks like it's absolutely necessary. In our opinion, there has been poor contact with the industry prior to this process. We have hope that it will be better in the future, and we are happy to support a decree that the Government should cooperate with the industry. For us in the Labour Party, it's the results that count, not the fine words. We want climate policies that are ambitious and deliver results, but at the same time we do not risk closures of industry in Norway. This will only lead to the transfer of production to other countries that do not have as stringent environmental requirements as Norway. With the government's plans, however, I am afraid that we will have closures of industry in Norway. And that's not something we've made up of us sail. For example, the director of TTI in Tyssedal says it very clearly in Hardanger Folkeblad on June 14th: «The decision» – he then talks about the decision that the majority will be voting for here tonight – «As I understand it today, the hook on the door means to us. 200 jobs are at risk.» This could be the situation for many communities, if we see the results of the majority climate policy. The Labour Party wants us to carry out reductions at home before the Kyoto period begins in 2008, so that we are as prepared to meet our Kyoto commitments as quickly as possible. Then we have to spend money on developing a new and modern technology. Norwegian operators are not then able to buy freely through cheap measures in developing countries. There is also a background for us to propose the creation of a carbon fund, all of which can participate in the financing of technology-developing projects, as well as other measures outlined by the representative, Mr Konglevoll. I would also like to mention the oil sector, which is one of the largest sources of climate emissions. We know that much of the emissions come from power generation on the platforms, and that is the background for us to get ahead of the plans for electrification on the socket. We go far when we say that we want it to be a gas power plant with CO2 handling. We go far when we say that that project, along with other projects relating to electrification, must mean a reduction of at least 3 million. tonnes of CO2. Neither will the government parties. Now it's no point to have a competition about who's the best. But it's a point that we make decisions that matter to our climate, and that we also make decisions that matter to the industry that is actually the least polluting in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18.ana.ud2644e885	The President will now cancel the meeting. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18 and then we continue to deal with the case No. 1 to 5.
