ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e39	The representative, Inge Ryan, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e42	I would like, on behalf of my seas, to present proposals for the creation of a new industrial development fund for economically poor areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e61	The first speaker is in the place of the case-rapporteur, Mr Rød.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e64	The Audit Committee has examined the examination by the Court of Auditors of the time-limits for review of complaints concerning value added tax and investment taxes. The results of the investigation show that the average overall duration of proceedings for complaints decided by the complainant or converted by the Tax Directorate in 1998 and 1999 was 21.6 months and 19 months respectively. For the complainants, length of proceedings may lead to a period of significant uncertainty related to the outcome of the complaint. Long processing times can have a negative impact on both business, workplaces and private economic facilities, and may also lead to some refusing to complain. The Committee is of the opinion that it has been important that the Riksrevision has examined the procedure for such complaints and considers that the time taken to deal with such cases has been and remains unacceptable. The Ministry of Finance’s requirements for the overall duration of proceedings are 12 to 15 months. Therefore, the Committee is of the opinion that the time period covered by the investigation, 21.6 months and 19 months respectively, is not acceptable. The Committee has understood that the length of time is half the time of proceedings in the Directorate-General for Taxation. The Committee therefore takes the view that the key to a shorter and more effective procedure is to improve and streamline the procedures of the Tax Directorate. The Committee expects a significant focus to be placed on its implementation in the near future. The Committee is unanimous in its recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e77	Most of the points made by the Committee include: in the case of processing time, has already been complied with. As an example, I can mention that in the 2002 Tax Directorate’s letter, a 12 month treatment period is required. It's a lot better, and it's going in the right direction. The Committee is also of the opinion that a written voting system is not a well-suited appeal procedure and that the appeal subject should hold meetings so that voting can take place promptly and continuously without the necessary time-playing. The Committee assumes that the Ministry is considering the implementation of such a scheme. The Ministry of Finance will show that at kgl. Resolution of June 2001, last year, was amended by Regulation of 19 December 1969 No. 5 on the organisation, organisation and handling of complaints, etc., so that it is organised for increased proceedings in the field of complaints. Following this, the Tax Directorate, in consultation with the head of the denominator, has developed detailed procedures for proceedings in meetings, etc. I assume that the new legislation, which is from last year, meets the Committee's wishes. The Committee asks the Ministry that the limit for the handling of a case by the complainant should be increased from NOK 15 000. I would like to inform you that the limit on the amount of the complaint was raised from NOK 1000 to NOK 15 000 in the event of a change in the law on 21 December 2000. The law was amended after ordinary consultation. And considering that it's so short a time since a relatively drastic lifting of the border was done, I think this is not a topical issue in the near future. The Committee also has a number of other points. They have been largely answered in correspondence with the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e90	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1276]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e106	The position on the minutes of the Government is based on a basis of the Constitutional Act § 75(f) and § 12(f) of the Rules of Procedure. 8 and is the only means of control that automatically gives the Storting insight into the exercise of authority by a government. This was traditionally motivated by a desire for constitutional control, but has gradually been overruled by political responsibility after parliamentaryism, and the control work of the Grand Duchy has gradually changed forms, such as: by the Riksrevisionen, the Civil Ombudsman, interviews, deposit notices, an active press, etc. But the system is still constitutional, and although in more recent practice it has not played a greater role than the fact that the protocols are sounded quickly and through – usually the time of the night – without any comments, there are diverging remarks about the treatment of the Oasen Bible Centre by the former Council of State. A minority in the committee, but a majority in this room – there are not so many sitting here now – find reason to note a little discretionary political treatment of Oasis’ complaint against the application for approval under the private school law. From the Innst Opinions O. No 53 for 1984-85, where the majority stated that: ‘The ‘collective assessment’ rule opens up to a certain discretion, but the majority would stress that schools fulfilling the requirements laid down should normally be approved’; to date, there has been a solar-clear majority with a positive relationship with the Private School Act. This majority, however, chose to ignore in total the former Council of State, with a partly well-developed ego in relation to how a minority government relates to the Storting, and under the cover of legal assessments which at least in a political sense are approaching abuse of discretionary authority in relation to what a minority council can expect in relation to a repeated and expressed opposite view from the majority of the population. Governments acted formally within the framework of the Private School Act. Otherwise, completely different penalties than notes would have been the sanctioning theme here. Now the voters were also going to say their own in September, so that the Council of State might have returned to this room. If this had not happened, it is not unthinkable that the wording ‘The Grand Duchy regrets the proceedings of the Council of State Giske’ had been the proposal for a decision in the autumn. Now, the comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee constitute a political ex-post criticism and control which, preferably, will motivate both past, present and potential government councils to show greater caution towards a clearly expressed majority view of administrative decisions. The political disagreement about private schools between majority and minority is not the main issue here. It is primarily a question of principle of the relationship between accumulation and government that is addressed in the comments on the matter we have to deal with, although it would of course have been tempting to comment that the Workers' Party is obviously more concerned with the few percentages who choose to go to private schools for different reasons than with the 98 pst. in public schools. In the case of the Workers' Party and the SV's comments on the defence of the former Council of State, there are a few things to address. In the notes, the Labour Party and SV underline the ‘right of the majority to review the Ministry’s discretion’. Very well-known means over-testing to convert, as most of the state-law theory and practice clearly rejects the fact that the Storting has competence to do at all. Then I must be allowed to ask the Workers' Party whether these alert a whole new parliamentary and constitutional practice. The second, and far more remarkable, is that 117 years of parliamentary development seems to have passed the Workers' Party's house when, in the form of a comment, it is only considered to be the task of the Control Committee and the Grand Duchy of Great Britain: «verify that decisions have been taken in the framework of applicable powers and legislation». In practice, the Labour Party here believes that the Stortinget should only exercise legal control over a government. The Labour Party has thus taken a line over the parliamentary control of the Storting with the government at all times. I think that's relatively alarming, and it could have been okay with a clarification and possibly a change of comment if that's not what you think. Finally, in the case of purely factual matters, the Workers' Party and the SV state that approval ‘is somewhat more than showing tolerance to the views of different groups’. This is quite interesting given that in this case, Giske originally placed more emphasis on what some local government representatives said than for example. on the right of parents and children to choose training. Genuine liberality is shown when you approve something you don't like yourself. There was an opportunity former State Council did not take advantage of in this case. Rather, he chose to run slump between different bases, so even Kjus and Aamodt would get dizzy, in need of justice! This procedure considers the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to be of little political discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e150	As the representative Dahl said, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have gathered in this position on a note that addresses the former Council of State Giske's handling of the application for the establishment of the Oasen primary school. If I understand the comment correctly, these parties conclude that the former State Council was acting correctly, but wrong! And they do that by saying that the Council of State «in this case, it may be assumed that it has acted formally within the framework of the Private School Act». I'm assuming they're not just assuming. They are absolutely sure that the former Council of State acted correctly. If they only assumed this, this might have been a matter for the Control and Constitutional Committee and looked into it more closely. The criticism expressed by these parties is that they are: «of the opinion that the parliamentary procedure of the Council of State has been less fortunate». But it is not uncommon for a minority in this room to find the government's handling of both the one and the other as less fortunate! The new is that it is considered appropriate to entrust this to an assessment by the Control and Constitutional Committee. To go back a little bit in time, because the Christian People's Party is one of the parties that is in this note: when the representative Jon Lilletun ruled the department in question, he approved the establishment of a private, Muslim school. The representative Lilletun is an observant man, and he had probably understood that there was nothing particularly strong in this room that this school was to be established. But even if it was a proposal to direct instruct the Council of State in this matter, the Storting said no to it. They would not instruct the Council of State in this matter, but they clearly stated that this school did not want the Stortinget, because the Stortinget thought that here one would cross a boundary in the relationship between the magnificence and the government. You didn't instruct, but you expressed what you meant. Similarly, government council Giske was not later instructed by Stortinget. The individual Council of State, based on different parties and constellations, gets issues on its table on the basis of a social overall assessment based on its best judgement, and on the political basis on which the government is based. Former State Councillor Lilletun made his decision on the basis of his best judgement. And former State Council Giske handled this matter on the basis of his best judgement. So here in the house we can alternately agree or disagree on how the councils exercise their discretion. The alternative to this is either that the Storting instructs the Council of State by decision, or that we create such a detailed regulation that our councils become advanced case handlers when they sit and decide matters. I don't think any of these procedures are a good development. Since the governing parties of the Right and Christian People's Party support the criticism of the ex-Government's discretion, not as a fresh contribution to a debate, but as part of the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee, it might be of interest to know whether this is a work form that is considered appropriate. In this form of work, as we now see, a new increase by a new majority is also noted in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on the exercise of discretion by former government councils. If this is the type of work you want to do, this committee will seize a large part of the time on this pulpit in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e173	I'm not going to repeat the entire speech of the representative, Mr. Engeretsen, but there's a fundamental difference between having a democratic system in which a legislator adopts laws and assigns others the opportunity to exercise judgement, and having a democratic system in which the legislator first confers on others the opportunity to exercise judgement because one wants to take certain considerations, and then this withdrawal of judgment is the case if one believes that the judgement is being misapplied. It will be completely meaningless if what kind of issues appear in the media, what kind of issues are supported by strong press groups, are to decide when the Storting should go in and try out. We in SV assume that the majority that was behind the current private school law had a meaning in saying that the department should exercise a judgement. We also believe that it is right that the Stortinget actually allows the Ministry to exercise this discretion. I'm going to agree with the representative Dahl in one thing about the comment from the majority, and that is that talking about the Storting's right to review the government's judgement might have been formulated in a more fortunate way. But the basic thing is that if we're going to have a state of law, if we're going to have something left by a distribution of power, it has to be that when the legislator decides that someone should exercise judgment, they also have to be allowed to exercise that judgment. I believe that it would be a much better procedure for those parties that now want to criticise the Council of State's exercise of discretion, actually to agree to a change in the law if you think that the law opens up a way you don't like, than to try to limit the discretion you have actually said to the ministry that the ministry should exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e184	The case spokespersons have done very well for the substance of this matter. A little discretionary is the conclusion of the government party plus the Progress Party. In other words, the majority of Stortinget finds the management of a former government council so that there is reason to warn against similar behaviour. The right that a parent has to choose a school battle for his children has been strong in Norway, especially since the private spherelova got in place. The fact that a state council, like in this case, chooses to challenge the majority of population repeatedly, is nothing more than a wake-up call. Yes, it tells of a minister who does not fully take the seriousness of being part of a minority cabinet. Among other things, the control bodies in the three levels of administration — the local government, the county council and the Grand Duchy — have a role to play in improving procedures in the proceedings and the people’s confidence in public administration. If there's something that needs to be done today, it's just building trust between the people and the people who are elected. In my opinion, the behaviour of the former Council of State in this matter is a clear example of the opposite. For this reason, the consideration of this matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee is also very important for future government councils which need to have a diffuse view of the constitutional relationship between government and accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e197	The matter under consideration is therefore the minutes of the Council of State for the period from 1 January to 30. ==References== Normally, this is a matter that goes well without any special debate in Stortinget. Nevertheless, this time there is one important case of principle which provides the basis for a debate in this Chamber. It is true that even if we now have a treatment period, it is 1 January–30. In June 2001, it is necessary to include the knowledge on the matter after the time that is widely known. Therefore, there is now reason to look at the treatment of this matter that the former Council of State Giske was responsible for in its time as the Council of State. I am amazed at the anticonceptions and arguments of the representative of the Engretsen because he goes very far in suggesting that it is entirely on the side that such a case should be dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee. That's what I think is shooting far beyond the goal. On the contrary, it is a very important part of Storting's control work and the ability to control the government's discretion that is expressed here. I would like to quote from an article written by Fredrik Sejersted, where he writes the following: ‘The control of the Storting shall mean the subsequent examination, assessment and penalty of the executive.’ Further: ‘Control is in principle the opposite of ‘burden management’, which means that the Storting instructs the government in individual matters, thereby obviating the division of labour and responsibilities of the Constitution. On the contrary, such a distribution shall be subject to control.’;» It is true that it is not common for the Storting to consider it necessary to instruct. This has not been done in this case, but a very clear political signal has been given as to what should be done in relation to non-discrimination. The funny thing about Giske's position in this case is that both the time when decisions and decisions are taken, and the time spent seems very special, if I should be careful to express it. In different rejections of different cross-roads, there has been a constant shift of justification — from emphasising the gender equality law at one time to emphasising a municipal government decision at another time — and it all seems rather arbitrary. Furthermore, we know from what happened after 30 June, that the Council of State, based on the debate on 5 April of this year, was given the time to make an assessment and reach a decision. So he used it badly. In fact, his refusal of the new application from the Oasen came on 16 October. At that time, it was quite obvious, even to Giske, that the government was on its way out, for the new government joined on 19 October. I think it was a rather provocative behaviour, if I may say so, that the Council of State, which had to know that after the election there was an even clearer and clearer majority for an appropriate position on such a matter, in a situation where the outgoing government had to be perceived as a business ministry, three days before the new government acceded, chose to reject the application. I think that was a rather unacceptable behaviour on the part of Giske. That is why the criticism is also so strongly formulated in the vote. There can hardly be any doubt that if Gishe had still been a state councillor, this would have had consequences in terms of having to resign.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e222	As a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I had the opportunity to follow up on this matter in all its various stages. I wondered a little about the statements made by the representative, and also about the wording of the committee's view in the setting, because it has a very loose connection – it is even carefully expressed – to what has actually happened in this case. In principle, it is true, of course, that the division of labour between the legislative authority and the executive authority is generally such that the Grand Duchy exercises its powers by means of legislation and explicit decisions, and that the Government and the Council of State at all times have reasonable discretion within the framework of the laws adopted by the Grand Duchy. There is no disagreement about, as far as I can understand, nor between the fractions in the committee in the vote. But the practical problem is, of course, that between the legal system, which lies in the explicit legislative function of Stortingen, and the political one lies a very far-flung frontier country. And that's this frontier country, between the political and the legal, this case is about. In general, it is not desirable for the Storting to take very detailed decisions in individual cases dealt with by the Government. There's no disagreement about that either. But if you are to maintain this proper division of labour between the legislative and the executive, it requires the musicality of the government at all times. In this context, by «musicality», I believe that a council of states in a minority government has to deal with the fact that a majority in the Grand Duchy has a different view of how the law is to be understood than that of the Council of State. If a state council repeatedly demonstrates that he is uninterested in how the majority of the Storting perceives the law administered by the council, it is a direct provocation. And it's the Storting's duty to respond to such provocations. In this case, the Stortinget has done so, I had almost said, for the first time by adopting a clarification of the legal text after the Council of State's first handling of the matter, in order to exclude any possible doubt as to how the law was to be understood. Secondly, the majority of the Norwegian Trade Union Committee clearly stated in the budget position the same harvest that there was very little satisfaction in the further handling of the Council of State, more specifically his delay in the matter in time. It was also quite unambiguous, and there was a majority in this room behind the criticism. So the Stortinget took a decision last 5 April, which, of course, was not a legally binding instruction to the Council of State. The Council of State asked the Ministry of Justice's law department to help draw the conclusion that it was not an instruction. There was no need for a law department, because it was clear that the Storting did not take any instructions. On the other hand, the Stortinge said clearly that when it comes to practicing a law, there are two principles that apply to every council of states and in every context: one must take into account the general purpose of the law. And the general purpose of the Private School Act is not to ensure the free exercise of discretion by the State Council at all times. It would have been strange in a democratic society. Legislation does not provide for the protection of the freedom of expression of state councils. This law has a very explicit purpose: to secure the right to establish and operate private schools, understood: for minorities. Then I also have to be allowed to say that I am surprised that the representative of the Engebretsen seems to have the understanding that it is what there is at any time a majority of people who like and, if so, dislike school services, which will determine whether or not this right to establish and operate private schools should be honoured. That can't be a correct view. The explicit aim of the law is to ensure the ability of minorities to make use of an alternative school offer to the public. This was clearly stated in the decision of 5 April. In addition, one more thing was said that is very important in principle, namely that there is a general rule of law in this country that equal cases should be treated equally. In this case, it would mean that when the department of trade, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, in cases similar to the Oasen case, had given approval under quite specific conditions, it was not only access to it under the law. It is a law and an obligation for the Council of State if he believes that there are certain conditions that must be imposed in order for the approval to enter into force, to formulate those conditions. In similar cases, the ministry had done this before. What the Council of State Geske did, was – eye-catchingly enough – to use what had previously been set as a condition for approval, as a justification for rejecting the Oasen application. And it's simply on a collision course with elementary management. One cannot put a condition for approval at one moment and at the next moment use the same condition as the reason for refusing an exact parallel case. I have to say that I am very pleased with the comment that has been put into the vote and that both the representative Dahl and the representative Engeset said. I think this criticism is quite timely, and that in principle it provides an important rule of action for the future. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that we must be prepared to stay with minority governments in this country even in a reasonable future. And at least as long as you have a system of minority governments, it demands the musicality of the councils. In this case, it would have been useful if the Council of State had at the beginning of its Council of State had taken some sort of course at a reasonable music school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e239	The next speaker is André Dahl. Then Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e242	I was going to sum up a little bit, but now Kjell Engebretsen comes with a summary afterwards, probably. The heart of the matter is the flacing of Giske across a large number of large numbers. Criminal law distinguishes negligentness, intent and deliberateness. From reasoning based on geographical considerations, the first step was to achieve a little equality. And when the Oasen pointed out that the learning material was to be related to the law, they messed up a little bit and found a vague article in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child – all the while the bulk of the litter expressed itself clearer and clearer and, to a large extent, followed up the intentions that, as I said, were expressed already in the 1984-85 session. It should not be necessary, as the representative for Wage said, to instruct a government council to do its job. But as deliberate as the Council of State guessed, there is reason to cheat. The good political nose that the ex-state council has repeatedly shown that he has, and still has, was definitely not used this time, for the simple reason that one always had a narrower concept of democracy in his head and felt to do the limits of what a minority government should do. I have a quote from the debate on 5 April 2001, where the Council of State says: ‘I will take note of the decision Stortinget will take later today. When considering any new application under the provisions of the Act, the Department will be made aware of the decision and will inform the Department that it will be the basis for future examination.» That is not what you did when you rejected the new application on 16 October – three days before a government change – and completely ignored the politically powerful signal that came from this room. Then to the representative Hall Arnøy. I fully agree that a government must have a playroom to operate within, so precisely designed legal texts with a frame-up of almost all possible conditions were given relatively quickly to design already in the 1800s. Nor should the size rule clearly instruct a government legally or design what you really wanted, ‘shall-laws’, because then it becomes exhausting to be a councillor. There may be unclear lines and pig-bound government on issues of discretion. In the Oasen case, it's just to say that the political commitment imposed on the Council of State Giske was not listened to, and state councils should for the future not impose legal requirements. It has something to do with confidence in a democracy like ours and is miles away from taking the decision that was made on 16 October. The representative of the Engretsen made an attempt at using the word ‘antar’ for a time. It is relatively common to use legal language among those who are not judges of the Supreme Court, for example. the law department, which fortunately is aware of its own role, that they use the word ‘antar’ because there is something about the word ‘antar’ which, like many other words, is to be underlined. In this context, the word ‘antar’ is also a legal expression that is used when an interpretation result is obtained. The Supreme Court is those who interpret our laws in the last instance, and it is relatively natural to use the word ‘antar’ in the same way that one should interpret the word ‘should’ as ‘should’ in the Constitution. Otherwise, in the case of the majority in this Chamber, we are a little premature here with the minority, I will refer to the last sentence of the Right Party of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party of the Committee, which reads: ‘These members will note that, for the future, government councils in similar cases show greater caution towards an expressed majority view.’ As I said in my introduction, that sentence is just for the inspiration of existing, future and potential states. I hope, of course, that the Labour Party puts its trust in that, for example. State Council Clemet is not so total tone deaf – since we are first in the language of musicality here – as the Foreign Council Guessed. Finally, with regard to the content of a private school like Oasen, I understand that it can challenge our vision of democracy. But when you look at the representative Stoltenberg, or as far as the children of a representative from another furnished home, Jan Tore Sanner, it's almost amazing how harmonious they work despite having gone to a private school, at least based on how Giske and some others look at private schools, because in the case of Oasis, there's been quite a lot of coaching. You can almost get the impression that no children are able to learn anything, as about most of the time according to someone agrees to learn anti-sex attitudes, give children rice, get up early in the morning and otherwise cry in the sleep. If the corresponding energy in October was used to postpone the conversion system e.g., I think it would have been better spent time. Otherwise it's just to point out what the representative Engeset said, that there's a certain difference between instruction and control, and that it's about the time. I would recommend that the Arbeiderpartiet and SV also in later cases are a little more aware of what is actually in those terms. It does not seem that it was until this debate took place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e276	The President would just like to remind the representative Dahl that the term ‘you’ is not used from the Spokesman’s Chair. We use the address ‘the representative’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e280	As for the word ‘antar’ in the legal language, I think Dahl is definitely right, and legal language from this pulpit can be both entertaining and perhaps even instructive, but here it is mostly the popular language that is used. It's kind of part of this hall's role and function -- only it doesn't get too popular, then maybe the president can have some opinions about it. I forgot to say something about this with a review of discretion. Again, Dahl is of course right in terms of the formalities. But it is true that the Storting can bring forward the decision and the decision the Stortinget wants, no matter what the Council of State has or has not done. It's just a question of – I would almost say – how things come into place, and there's a decision being made here. So this is what several of the representatives have been talking about here, which I think eventually, leaves a little bit of the criticism and the comment that lies within this matter. The representative, Mr. Augan, is talking about how the handling was critical. The representative's salary talks about the government's need to be musical. There is talk of how the Council of State has dealt with this matter, the procedure, the dates, the time spent, etc. Yes, if you think there is something to point to there, only then I believe that it would be a matter for the control committee, and that it might be of interest to see if there are any formal errors that have happened there. What I'm trying to say – and I'm not going to try to narrow down the investigation that Stortinget is going to do, in any way – is that I'm wondering if it's a check that in this case, by a new majority, the musicality of the former state councils should be assessed in relation to this room. I see that there is something you can use in a debate, which you can use in the political daily activities, but saying that it's a control task to make sure that a government council has dealt with an earlier majority in this room in a'musical' way, I think it's boring a little wrong. So my assessment of this matter is based on the comment made by the minority of the committee – the majority of the room: it is a comment that does not therefore address formalities, which does not imply that the Council of State has assessed this matter incorrectly in relation to existing legislation, which does not address a faulty or time-consuming procedure by the Council of State, etc. – that's none of it. What is stated in this note is: ‘By its refusal to grant approval, the Ministry carried out a fundamental assessment which is partly contrary to what the majority of the population had as an express contrary assessment’, etc. That's what you're pointing at. And what I'm saying is that you can think of it, you can have an opinion about that, you can debate that, but I don't think this is a reasonable matter for the control committee to deal with. In that case, I repeat what I said earlier: if it is the case that after elections new magnification is about to begin to assess whether a state council has been sufficiently responsive to this room in matters in which it is up to the Council of State to assess and make decisions, I think it is going to put a lot of hold on this speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e298	Now maybe this is a debate for especially interested people. But I think it is politically, constitutionally interesting to hear representatives of the current government actually seriously believe that the Storting should use time and effort to assess how the various government councils use their discretion, in cases where they are under law required to use their discretion. This can also be very politically interesting, as there is still a minority government and the size of a number of issues will have different political motives to be able to criticise, take up and assess the judgement of the various governments. I could understand that if this had been an interpellation, and I could understand that if this had been taken up as a general political matter in the Stortinget where one had sought to express that the government council had acted against the wishes of Stortinget in relation to how the private school law was going to develop, and how one wanted the private school offer to develop in that country. But when one goes to the step of actually writing committee comments in the control and constitution committee where one tries to instruct the Council of State in his judgement in connection with the protocols of the Council of State, one is on a very – yes, I would say – dangerous path, where in the future there will be questions not only about the musical abilities of the councils but more about how the Storting should be able to perform its artistic activity. The size will, as you know, be much more difficult to conduct than the government and the various state councils, because it will at any time be the various political motives behind the wish of the Great Britain, which will be decisive for the observations to be made by the Council of State in the exercise of discretion. I think it would be much more fair if you had taken this up as a matter of your own, or if in a general political case you had taken the council because you were politically dissenting. But trying to turn this into a constitutional question through the Control and Constitutional Committee on how to exercise discretion, it really surprises me that representatives of today's minority government actually in the staging room here argue that should become future practice. We're going to try to deal with reality and try to avoid falling for the same ones – I'm sorry to say that – the stupidities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e309	I find it very difficult to understand the point made by the representative of the Ombudsman several times, that this is a question of the distribution of majority and minority voting in this Chamber and the fact that, in the meantime, there has been a big shot that makes the Storting look a little different than it did before the elections. With regard to this specific case, it seems to me to be completely irrelevant, because no one has at any time been in any doubt in the course of this case about where the majority of the Storting was, and where the minority of the Storting was. It was exactly the same distribution of the majority and minority in the previous magnification as it is in this magnificence. So that argument seems completely irrelevant to me. Let me also say that I find it very difficult to understand the reasoning that considering a government's handling of a matter that has been very controversial and that has attracted long-term attention in the public and throughout Norwegian society should not fall within the overall remit of the control committee to exercise control over the government's activities. Then I have to say that we could, for good reason, put an end to the whole committee, because then there is no such thing as the control of the quality of government's office by the Stortinge. In this case, it has been amazing that the bulk of the population in the previous period, once again, criticised the Council of State's handling of this matter in a completely unintelligible way. Neither the Council of State nor anyone else could be in doubt that the bulk of the population was very critical of the Council of State’s office at this point. And when the council then accomplished not only closing its ears for this criticism and pretending that he had not perceived it, but then overtime, after the government set up as a business ministry, did once again provoke the majority of the population and marked that he saw, in principle, not interested in what the majority of the population thought, if the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee did not have a mandate to evaluate it afterwards, then I must say that I do not understand what we are going to do with such a committee at all. Then Stortinget has, in a way, abdicated from its control function. So to what was my main score. I fully agree with those who, in general, are skeptical of what is called big business in the populace. I believe it is very little desirable that the Storting should somehow enter into the government's unique marks. But when there are sometimes problems with that border, it is not certain that the responsibility for it lies with the Storting. In specific cases, there may be minority government and the relevant Council of State acting in such a way as to force the Storting to go to the outer boundary of its field of competence, and this is, in my view, a classic example of it. State Council Geske almost begged Stortinget to take over his task, and had it not been for the voters to have solved the problem in advance, it is quite right that then it would have been the task of the majority of the population to solve that problem by asking the council to find another job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e320	I felt an urgent need to sign when I heard the post of President of the Grand Duchy, Cosmo, which I thought ended up in the department for quite special posts. It's a formulation that says, "The God gives an office, he also gives understanding." One might also say, "Everyone is promoted up to his own incompetence level. If the current President of the United Kingdom has been seriously injured in believing that what is the basis for this debate lies not only on the side, but also far from the work of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I would strongly recommend that he go back a little to the legal basis, the debates, the formal basis on which this committee was set up, and what the work of the Committee actually has. Because it has been clearly concluded that there are no restrictions on the possibility of raising cases in connection with the review of the State Council's protocols. There has been varying practices in dealing with the protocols, based on government decisions in individual cases in specified administrative areas. This was previously actually the very central part of Storting's control of the government and the executive. I think you just have to think that this is and will be an important part of the Size control function afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e325	Kjell The Englishman has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e328	First to the representative Wage – this by a minority and majority in this Chamber and the reason why I have pointed it out. I fully agree that it has no particular relevance to this matter. But if this practice is introduced, if a new majority can take up a case and have an assessment of the judgement of the former Council of State, so that this kind of role and function is given in the Committee of Control and Constitutional Affairs, I think this will be a rather unfortunate and premature matter in the years to come. Then I have to be allowed to say that this is a matter that is known by the Storting, which is open, which lies here, which has been debated, which can be taken up again, and which can be used in any way. There's one thing that's in this room. There is nothing the Control and Constitutional Committee has found and sees as necessary to bring to the square. So the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has, in my opinion, created an interpellation instead of what they are actually going to do. I agree with the representative Engeset that it is, of course, up to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee itself to find the boundaries that are necessary, and I think that is what we are working towards. This debate shows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e337	I was not really going to get involved in this debate, because I think debates on the private school law and the enforcement of the private school law belong primarily to the debates that the Education Committee is dealing with. Nevertheless, I think there are some things that need to be corrected by what has been said in the debate. The first is the issue of the decision of the Storting concerning the Oasis, and whether it was binding on the government or not. We took it seriously in relation to the process that had been in Stortinget, and the decision that had been made there, actually limited the discretion that the Stortinget itself has added through the private school law to the department, that we asked the law department in the Ministry of Justice to assess it. They came to a quite unambiguous and clear conclusion that the decision that had been taken was not to be understood as such a restriction on the discretion that the Stortinget law gave to the ministry. Then we are faced with the situation that the Storting itself has added a judgement to the ministry that we as the government are required to exercise, which is in the form of law, and on which that decision has not changed anything. It may seem to be used in a different way, but if you want to do something other than what the law imposes on the government and the ministry, you have to do it in the form of decisions in Stortinget, not by sight. In fact, part of the majority behind the decision taken in Stortinget last spring, namely the Central Party and the parliamentary leader of the Central Party Odd Roger Enoxsen, specifically said that this was not to be understood as an instruction by the Department, but – as he said – a good and well-meaning advice. And of course we should listen to that advice, but we disagreed with it, and made a different decision. It's a matter that's quite parallel to this one, and it's the matter of the Urtehagen Muslim School, which the government Bondevik handled when Jon Lilletun was the Council of State. There was a clear majority in Stortinget against giving Urtehagen Muslim school grants under the Private School Act. The Labour Party and the Advance Party were against it. The progress party even went and suggested, neatly enough, a decision to instruct the government to say no to the Urtehagen school. The Workers' Party said: we have been to a private school law that gives it the discretion to make that assessment, to the Ministry. That's why we don't agree to such a decision, but our clear advice to the government is to say no to the Urtehagen school. Jon Lilletun knew that there was a majority in the Stortinget who wanted to say no to the school, but he still chose to say yes, because under the private school law he had understood that. It would not have been in our wildest fantasies, even though we had a majority in the Committee on Control and Constitution, together with the Advance Party, to make it a matter in the Committee on Control, but it has become a whole new practice since then. The truth was that you had a majority in the Stortinget that wanted Oasis school to get support under the private school law, but you didn't have a majority to instruct the government. In the Committee, this was even done, for example: by the representative on the pay side, launched and discussed proposals to instruct, but he was unable to bring a large number of people on it, and thus lost. In the election, he was given a different majority, and then a rematch later on in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs – just as many people here have been involved. The representative then says that – and that needs to be corrected – this was a decision that was made when we were the Ministry of Business. There is an actual error that shows that you may not have been fully involved in the matter. When Jon Lilletun made some decisions at the end of the Bondevik government in March 2000, some of these were made after they had become the Ministry of Business, that's quite correct, but we made our decision before we became any business ministry. We were a government when all the decisions were made. After we became the Ministry of Business, no such decisions were made. There have been many problematic issues in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but there has been a willingness of most parties to demonstrate constitutional cleanliness by dealing with the laws and responsibilities given between the magnificence and government. It is a complex matter that requires many years of experience and legal study. I understand that you've got people who believe they're legally competent. I believe that the conclusions drawn here do not promise good for the possibilities of legal examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e357	No pay is given the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e360	It must be assumed that the assessment of the legal examination belongs elsewhere than in this room, and most should be pleased. I need to clarify two things. The representative of the Engretsen puts himself on the same page over and over again so that he must be perceived that the control function of the Stortingen should not be exercised for the first year after a choice, because that will be the practical consequence of his repeated arguments. That can't possibly be serious. Of course, the role of the control committee is the same when it comes to assessing former government councils following a government change as a result of a choice which it would be if one had the same government. It should say itself. The representative Giske is entitled to one point, namely the technical term ‘Ministry of Commerce’. It was the only point in his posts, and it is in return completely uninteresting, but I am pleased that the representative Giske found reason to lead the defense he did, for it further illustrated that the committee comments are in place. It also seems to indicate that the representative Giske did not know in retrospect what this matter was about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e369	How the offices and minds are distributed in this room, I don't think I'm going to go in and make a big debate about. Of course, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee have the right and in many ways the obligation to deal with matters which it considers necessary. However, what I tried to say – it may well be that I did not manage to formulate myself in such a way that it became understandable, and it may well be my understanding that there is something wrong with it, but it may also be the understanding of others – was that when the Committee of Inquiry and Constitutional Affairs, through its work, agreed to assess the discretion of the individual Council under the various laws, they moved into a very complex area, where it would be difficult from time to time to distinguish between constitutional practices and constitutional guidelines, and political desires. The time I've been on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I've always been out there to make sure, to work intensively to ensure that the control of the Storting should be a real, factual and correct control, not an instrument in which we tried to get an impact on political issues for which there was no impact in other areas. Developing the Control and Constitutional Committee to become a party political body will in the long term weaken the control functions of the Storting. That is why I believe – and I still have to say that I only believe, because we have not lived so long with the Committee on Control and the Committee on Control that it is possible to outsmart certain practices – that if there are cases where the majority of the population loses because the Constitution has distributed the exercise of power in this society in a special way, and we use the control function to achieve political gains in areas where, in the same way, we have authorized the government councils to exercise discretion, then the control committee is on wild roads. But it must not be interpreted as meaning at any point that I mean to restrict the work of the control committee. I believe that this matter is clearly an attempt to give a political kick in a case that has already been decided, and I do not believe that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee should use its important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e376	When it comes to part of the final post of the staging president right now, I'm well aware that it was clarified in 1884, when all the power was collected in this hall. In terms of reality, it's been interesting to listen, and it's only because of the history that I also wanted to take the word. It is said that there are two things that are completely parallel, simply the approval of the Urtehage Muslim Base School and the approval of the Oasen Children's Sphere. I don't think that's right. It is simply that the proposal that was made at the time by the Progress Party came, as far as I am concerned – I have not yet had to cancel, and sometimes not well enough, but I believe it is right – after that approval was made. That is, one must have reversed a decision. On what basis was the decision taken? It was done on the basis of the principle of equal treatment based on a law that exists, that minorities should exercise their parental rights, as it had previously been in relation to educational alternatives and life views on a Christian basis. This school was accepted from a Muslim base. It was a ground for non-discrimination. It's the first thing that understands the issues. The other thing that separates matters is that there were no objections at all to the use of laws from any of the parties that then constituted the bulk of the population, but there was strong criticism that it was possible to approve a school based on that law, on a Muslim basis. So one didn't think anything special about it. I'm going to admit that the then state council didn't think so much about it either, but it's easy for one to deal with something based on the principle of non-discrimination, my representative Lilletun, who was then the Council of State, that the same right must apply to Loke as to Tor. Therefore, I believe that there is a great difference in the handling of these two matters, but unlike others who have spoken, this representative dares to admit that he is not 100 pst in this matter. objective. There may be some subjectivity, but I still think I've described history and how things were handled, in a reasonable objective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e386	Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e402	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e410	It shall be put to the vote in cases No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-10.ana.ud1968e500	There is no record.
