ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e107	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today, and considers it to be adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e112	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e117	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e131	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e142	There is a broad consensus that technological development and our relationship with advertising and sponsorship have led to the need to amend the Law of 4 December 1992 No. 127 on broadcasting. A separate sample has been set up to provide advice in this area, known as the Convergence Committee. The Government's proposal is based mainly on the recommendations of this sample. The central concept of development is convergence. It's simply saying that the media, as we know them, are melting together. Radio, television, Internet and telephony are combined and operated by the same actors. We get newspapers that are interconnected with TV, radio and the Internet. We get a TV that runs entries over the network. We get a radio with a mobile chat that's on the TV, etc. At the same time, the capacity of all networks is increased to accommodate many more channels than before. As capacity increases, the legitimacy of a detailed regulatory regime may be weakened. However, these changes take place over a few years. Convergence has given us a need to look at how we define broadcasting, and that's what's central to this proposition. There is broad consensus in many areas in the treatment of this proposition. When I mention this broad consensus, I have to make it clear that it does not include SV, which in most themes has taken a unique position. I assume that the SV itself explains their specific points. In the following I'll take some of the main points of the proposition. The proposal provides for a transition from the licensing obligation to the registration obligation of cable networks and satellites. A flexible proxy has been provided, which opens up the possibility that, at a later stage, a registration obligation will not be necessary or should be limited, this can be done without amendment. The proposal also opens up the possibility that in the future provisions on transmission obligations in the cable network may be less necessary. This cannot be rejected, but there is a broad consensus that it is too early now to abolish the obligation of dissemination. An electronic programme guide – EPG – is a tool for TV viewers to inform themselves about the provision of programmes and services in digital TV broadcasts. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, considers that there is a need for a proxy to regulate them — if necessary. We in the Progress Party are more sceptical and show that some of the hearing bodies have expressed doubts about the need. Besides new technology, advertising and sponsorship are at the heart of this case. However, the specific rules on advertising and sponsorship do not exist in the form of law but in the form of a regulation. This shall now be subject to some amendments. A central point is advertising interruptions in feature films. There is a broad consensus that today's rules work well, but we in the Progress Party will further liberalise them. A broad majority is also aware that different rules for sponsor identification should apply in the NRC and in the transmissions of commercial stations. It is believed that the latter should open up the use of moving images in sponsor identification, regardless of their coverage, so that this is also possible for local TV. In the case of NRK, they shall only be able to display still images as sponsor identification. As far as documentaries are concerned, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, wishes to liberalise advertising rules in order to better adapt to the international standard for such programmes, which apply to programmes of 50 minutes. We believe that such a change could lead to the purchase and transmission of several good international programmes, and that it would be easier to sell Norwegian programmes abroad, as these are adapted to the same rules. The same majority would like to see the advertising rules liberalised for fictional series. In the case of local TV, there is a broad consensus in the Committee that this is an enrichment for Norwegian society. Local TV is important as a source of news and is an identity-creating factor. And there is a broad consensus on the liberalisation of sponsorship identification rules, which have been called for by many actors on local television. However, the promotion party is alone in proposing a test scheme with political advertising in local television at the local and county elections of the autumn. Another area where the Progress Party stands alone is the proposal to amend the provisions of the Broadcasting Act §4-5, so that we no longer have the infamous ‘sladder’ of erotic films in the cable network. I would like to point out here that the majority in the Committee on Convergence supports the proposals of the Progress Party. We don't think anyone is hurting by watching normal sexual activity on TV – as long as it's being sent at a time when kids are being screened. The progress party is also only about wanting to repeal the strange rules that it is not allowed to send advertising posts on Friday, Easter Day, Pentecost 1st and Christmas 1st. We believe it is obvious that people’s perception of the need for ‘sacred peace on the TV screen’ on such holidays has changed. In any case, it is a fact that most households receive a large number of foreign-based channels that do not have such rules. Advertising is also available in all other media these days. Finally, I would like to present the position and address the proposals of the Progress Party referred to in this section.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e182	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e185	As the rapporteur explained, there are no major and deep political disagreements in this position. SV stands out on its side, and the Progress Party too, with some minority proposals. But largely there is a broad consensus. In part, the proposition deals with some consequences of the technological changes. Here is the situation that we currently know too little about how the market is going to develop, and how the fusion of different technologies will change the entire media image, and we do not know what kind of regulation or action is needed to meet the goals set by the Stortinget for Norwegian media policy. What is important to us is to preserve and develop Norwegian language and culture, to ensure a good social debate, the dissemination of news and the diversity that a media service in Norway will provide. How we're going to ensure that in the future, I think we're going to have a lot of discussions about and rounds on here in the hall. It is therefore also important that NRK and TV 2, such as the two major Norwegian public broadcasters, have good working conditions and are ensured that they are both provided with communication and an economic situation in which they can take responsibility. The technical changes contained in the proposition are largely agreed upon. Where there has been a little more debate, there is, among other things. on the rules of advertising, where we have a two-part objective. One is, of course, ensuring those who live by advertising, good enough income for them to deliver a good quality offer. The other is, of course, both to guarantee us against unhealthy competition, to ensure children against unlucky marketing and to ensure artistic quality, among other things. on the presentation of feature films. In this case, the Council of State and the Ministry have not been put into effect in the Committee. We want to keep the rules that apply today, which allow TVNorway to maintain its programming with newscasts, which are part of the news diversity we have in Norway. But the other thing is that we don't want a break in movies. The ministry had proposed the possibility of interruption, which I believe is a logical consequence of the fact that today's channels can be interrupted by self-advertising. There the ministry had proposed coordination, and when the committee now rejects interruptions of feature films for artistic reasons, the logical consequence of this must be that the same applies to self-advertising. Because I fully agree with the thinking of the department, that there can be no big difference in what kind of interruption it is. An interruption in a feature movie must be a break in a feature movie. A majority of the Committee opens up the possibility for documentaries to be interrupted for up to one hour. From the Labour Party we also see good arguments for such an interruption if it leads to an increase in the demand for long documentaries and a greater possibility for the type of programme to be exported. We ask the ministry to consider it carefully, but there is in any case a majority in the Chamber so that the ministry can provide that kind of transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e202	The telecommunications, data and media sectors are rapidly developing, both technically and on the market. Moreover, the sectors and actors operating within them are developing more and more common features. Convergence and technological development in general have made it necessary to review the Broadcasting Act. The Broadcasting Act must reflect developments in the various sectors through: express technologyneutralities precise and predictable framework conditions for the actors of innovation adapting Norwegian legislation to the EU TV Directive and the EEA Agreement At the same time, it is essential for me to stress that important cultural policy considerations are to be taken into account. The government proposal is a follow-up to parts of the Convergence Committee's position. The media industry as well as the Committee have also expressed an agreement, which has been discussed by many, in relation to the statutory clean-up work proposed by the Government. But at an important point, the Government and the Convergence Committee are separating layers. The Convergence Committee believes that in the future the legislative framework should focus on combining current broadcasting legislation and telecommunications and data legislation, in line with the technical convergence of these sectors. I am pleased that the Government does not follow up the Convergence Committee on this particular point. The government has a majority in favour of its position that we should continue to maintain a distinction in the law between content and distribution in the future. The content and content production shall continue to be in the cultural and media sectors, while distribution shall continue to be in the transport sector. The media industry is subject to many regulations. Most people realize that this is necessary, for example: with concessions, because the availability of frequency resources is limited until further notice. There is also a majority to pursue the regulation of some areas of activity as an instrument in the media sector. I am pleased that a majority are concerned that the impact of all regulations can be reduced innovation and reduced development. We should therefore respect the principle that we should have the lowest possible regulation and that regulation should be eliminated when it no longer serves any clear purpose. In relation to possible future regulation of the so-called electronic programme guides, or EPGs, the Committee also separates layers. The future development and design of the EPGs remains unclear. Probably there will never be a need for any regulations. However, in the light of this ambiguity and in the light of the rapid development in this area, the Government and the majority believe that it would be reasonable to give the Department the opportunity to rapidly design a regulation that regulates the EPG if it would nevertheless prove necessary to regulate it. The government receives broad support for its proposals. In addition to the relevant legislative changes proposed, the Government announces that it is prepared to implement certain changes to the legislation on advertising and sponsorship on television, and therefore signals to Stortinget the direction in which it wants to see developments progress. The Committee is quite clear that the legislation on advertising and sponsorship must, in a sensible way, balance the public and consumers' concerns with regard to the possibility of television stations generating their own revenues. Let me stress that although the NRK has been given some additional revenue options in relation to sponsor identifications, the Committee has agreed that the NRK as a licensed broadcaster should be treated differently and more stringently than the self-funded TV stations. The idea of balancing the public's concerns and the concerns of the TV stations is evident when a broad majority gathers about the good functioning of today's rules on interruptions to feature films. On the other hand, the majority consider that advertising breaks can be opened in documentaries. The government parties and the Advance Party will strengthen the performance of the TV stations and at the same time offer a better offer to the public. In addition, we want to help strengthen Norwegian production environments by opening up advertising breaks in documentaries of 50 minutes in length. 50 minutes is the international format of such productions, which are also made for advertising interruptions. The Labour Party and the Center Party are, as I understand it, not strangers to such a change. They are somewhat more reserved in their position, but ask the ministry to consider making such a change. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are also open to assess shorter advertising breaks in foreign fiction series produced for advertising breaks. Norwegian production environments could benefit from the opening of so-called mobile sponsorship posters in the self-funded TV channels. TV is a medium that is particularly suitable for living images, to say it that way. It's not understandable to me why long commercials can be shown with animated images, while the sponsorship posters must be a still image. It is an anachronism that has also been pointed out in the context of the media communication, which can now be cleaned up for the self-funded public broadcasters and for local television. In addition, it may give some additional tasks to the Norwegian manufacturing environment. There will therefore be some wide-ranging opportunities for television channels to make money, for the benefit of Norwegian media companies, for the benefit of a Norwegian manufacturing environment and for the benefit of consumers and the public. But in one place, there's not an inch from any party. It's in relation to the commercialisation of children's growth. It shall still not be possible for commercial operators to sponsor programmes for children. I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e243	On the one hand, all parties agree on the starting point for this matter, namely that the media area is characterised by a tearing technological development and an increasing convergence, where both media and different technologies merge. But the consensus ends with the description. When we discuss what means we are going to meet the future, SV is alone about wanting to take precautions and not releasing market forces. The right-wing parties, including the Christian People's Party, seem to have one-sided belief that multiple actors, multiple channels, more media and increased competition will lead to a better quality offer to the public. The Ministry states that in the design of the bill it has been a central objective that regulation should as far as possible inhibit developments in this area. That concerns us in SV. We do not share this understanding. We do not see broadcasting legislation as a means of inhibiting development, but as a means of controlling developments in a way that serves the public. On the contrary, we believe that it is important that legislation provides a basis for the media offer to reach everyone. Nor do we share the belief of the majority of the population that markets regulate themselves, at least not for the benefit of consumers. The main objective of the SV in this case is to ensure public broadcasting channels access in future networks and broadcasting platforms and to ensure that the electronic programme guides, the mentioned EPGs, have a democratic design. This is not the case with the deregulation that is taking place today, as a result of the amendments the majority wishes to adopt. SV is surprised by the zeal shown to liberalise the broadcasting law. We're probably not very surprised that the Right wants this. We are more surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are no longer leaders and will have better control over media development. With the legislative amendments adopted by the majority of the population today, we have a broadcasting law that is more liberal than in Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Canada. SV believes that it is not right to restrict the general concession obligation for broadcasting operations to broadcasting only via wireless, ground-based transmission systems, as proposed in this legislative proposal. Both in Sweden and the United Kingdom, the general concession obligation includes not only wireless, ground-based transmissions, but also radio and TV broadcasts in real time and over the Internet. SV will meet the media development with legislation covering as much as possible of the products presented at all times, regardless of the transmission platform. The various transmission platforms digitally ground, cable, satellite and telecommunications are likely to operate in parallel in most homes in the future, and the individual user will have no conscious relationship with the form of transmission underlying the individual transmission. Both Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom have a comprehensive broadcasting obligation in their broadcasting legislation, and the obligation to disseminate is increasing with capacity. SV believes that the obligation of dissemination should be maintained and also includes wireless distribution. Even the Ministry does not exclude that technological development and increased international competition on the programme side allow traditional Norwegian public broadcasters to be put under pressure. SV pays particular attention to ensuring that public broadcasters have access to all distribution platforms and that access covers all services provided by them. The SV is therefore promoting the following proposals today: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Broadcasting Act so that the obligation to communicate also covers wireless distribution.’ Everyone agrees that the electronic programme guides, the EPGs, are likely to have a significant impact on the future use of the television medium. Programme guides are provided with a gatekeeper function which allows, in principle, the promotion of their own programmes and services at the expense of other applications and suppliers. During the examination of the media communication, the current government parties and the Workers' Party stated: ‘This majority would stress in particular that the following key issues are addressed in the context of the development of the digital network: full coverage in Norway, opportunities for substantially more channels, the preservation of local television and open channels, and the guarantee of control over the future electronic programme guide.’ The Convergence Committee proposed that a general basis be included in the Broadcasting Act to regulate the design of electronic programme guides, but that it was too early to propose concrete regulatory measures. The Convergence Committee presented its report in 1999, and a lot has happened since then. For example, the United Kingdom has implemented regulation of EPGs. The purpose of the legislation is to prevent the exclusion or discrimination of some programmes or broadcasts and to avoid undue use of the application guides for cross-promotion of broadcasts in which the platform operator itself has financial interests. In the United Kingdom, EPGs are subject to concession, and the ITC, the Independent Television Commission, has established guidelines for the design of the programme guides. I do not understand that neither the government parties nor any other party will assess the corresponding legislation and legislation for the electronic programme guide in Norway at present, but rather wait for problems to arise. By opening an advertisement break in feature films, the Government shows that it prioritises commercial considerations rather than cultural ones. It's right that, for example, TVNorway today takes advantage of a loophole in the law when they interrupt feature films with news and weather reports. If the broadcasts are interrupted by another programme, advertising is permitted by law, and TVNorway fully exploits it both immediately after the movie break, before the news, and after the news before the feature film continues. When the government wants to seal this dirt hole by allowing an advertising break in all feature films, it's at best a very defensive policy. In Denmark, a recent media policy settlement has been concluded that does not permit the interruption of feature films with advertising. It's sad that the government at all doesn't try to do anything similar here. Art and culture are constantly losing ground to market forces. The only thing that's positive for us who don't want to look at advertising is that we get stuffed in our coffee cup, but it's a bad comfort. We could fill the cup from a thermocouple, but we'll never get back the advertising-free zones on television. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e287	Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e290	There are not many areas that can indicate such a major development in the last 10-15 years, both technologically and marketly, as the broadcasting sector. The current media situation is characterised by rapid commercialisation and accelerated technological development. The boundaries between the broadcasting, telecommunications and ICT sectors are gradually being phased out, with unprecedented opportunities for information and communication emerging. We must use these possibilities and use them for the benefit of the community. However, rapid developments mean that legislation in this area is not entirely up to date. The need for adjustments to the broadcasting law is therefore great. The Government's proposals for legislative changes are sensible and necessary and are in line with the Convergence Committee's recommendations. Hopefully, the changes will provide us with a legal framework that is better adapted to the reality of today's media. It is also important to amend the legislation to comply with the EU TV Directive which is part of the EEA Agreement. When we are going to adopt changes in the law, it is important to have in mind that, as also pointed out in the proposition, there is a risk that regulation may inhibit innovation and innovation in an area. The Christian People's Party also wants a simpler Norway within the broadcasting field. For example, today's broadcasting regulation is very detailed, and the majority of the committee believes it must be possible to have a simpler and more liberal regulation. The point is not to create rules that inhibit development, but that guide it in a desired direction. We should be able to do that. We need, among other things: clear advertising and sponsorship rules. Advertising and sponsorship shall ensure the revenue base of commercial broadcasters. At the same time, as politicians, we must take account of consumers and ensure as high a level of public friendliness as possible. At a time when commercial pressure is constantly increasing, especially against children and young people, it is essential to have a good regulatory framework for just advertising and sponsorship. At the hearings of the Committee, both commercial television channels and film directors have presented their views on advertising interruptions in films. From an artistic point of view, it would be very desirable to minimize the disruption of advertising. There's a reason to stress, too, but there's a lot of consideration here. The majority of the Committee has therefore stated that current rules function satisfactorily from an overall media policy perspective. At the same time, important arguments have been put forward in the hearings to allow interruptions in documentaries with a length of 50 minutes. Among other things, such a change will bring our legislation more into line with the legislation of the countries with which Norway is exchanging programmes, which can in turn strengthen export opportunities for Norwegian document producers. I am pleased that a majority of the committee has concluded that it is a natural element of the holiday peace that the TV channels do not show advertising. The Advance Party has proposed that it be opened for advertising on Friday, Easter Day, Pentecost Day and Christmas Day. I'm sure the Progress Party is on a collision course with the Christian People's Party. It must then be possible to avoid people four days a year without advertising. For the Christian People's Party, this is about keeping watch over a few special church holidays that may be exempt from advertising. But here the Progress Party shows itself as the foremost champion of commercialization in cultural life. As if this were not enough, the Progress Party proposes to remove the provision of the broadcasting regulation on the broadcasting of pornographic films on television. With this, the Progress Party wants to open the legislation so that sometimes hard porn can be freely rolled into the Norwegian family homes at night. The Christian People's Party will strongly warn against this, and we are very pleased that the Progress Party has remained standing alone on its proposal. A few years ago, the Swedish documentary "Shocking Truth" showed us that the so-called erotic films, with "normal sexual activity", which the Progress Party formulates, were not so normal anyway. The documentary showed that, among other things: Canal+ had shown pornographic films with baptized girls and scenes that mostly reminded me of group rapes. It is this Advance Party will have to roll over Norwegian TV screens. It will be twice as strange that the Progress Party, which last Friday in Stortinget tried to appear as the leading speaker of the Christian weekly newspapers, today will both generalize the holidays and release pornography. But that's the way it's going to be when you're going to free a lot of different groups at once. As in other areas of rapid technological development, it is important that we are aware of the values and principles that govern the development of the media sector. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to direct development in the desired direction. I feel that responsibility that the Storting is now taking, and that is joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e321	Technological developments make it necessary to review the Broadcasting Act, in order to ensure that the law is as up-to-date as possible with technological and market developments in the field. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 107 for 2001-2002, which we are now debating, is a partial follow-up to the recommendations of the Convergence Committee in the NOU, Convergence - Merging of the telecommunications, data and media sectors. The Central Party supports the Government's proposal in this matter in all respects, and I do not see the need to wear the Storting with too many repetitions. However, I have to say a few words about advertising and sponsorship rules that I perceive as the most demanding point for several of us. The majority of the parties consider that all access to advertising and broadcasting sponsorship must be based on a balance between consumer considerations and the competitiveness and the economy of commercial channels financed by advertising. It must be a clear objective to get as high a level of audience friendliness as possible, while at the same time ensuring as much intervention as possible with the broadcasters. The centre party could primarily think that films etc. be able to be sent without annoying advertising breaks, but realise that the commercial channels depend on advertising revenue. If advertising breaks are not allowed at all, the result will be much fewer films on these channels. The Party therefore supports the proposal to continue the current rules. The centre party also sees a great value in making it possible to maintain the agreement between the local TV stations and TVNorway. After an overall assessment, the Centre Party has also concluded that we will not vote against the proposal to open advertising in documentaries of a minimum duration of 50 minutes. Legislation in accordance with most other countries will simplify both imports and exports of such programmes. Increased viewing of long documentaries from other countries and greater possibility of selling such programmes abroad outweigh a primary desire for an advertisement-free documentary programme. The Centre Party is pleased that the Ministry proposes to maintain the current ban on advertising spots on public holidays and the ban on sponsorship of child and youth programmes by natural and legal persons who are intended to engage in business activities. The Central Party also supports the Ministry’s proposal to amend the rules so that commercial channels can use moving images in their sponsor identification, while the NRK can still only display still images. This is in line with what the Bondevik I government proposed in its time. In this way, a clearer distinction is shown between the NRK and the commercial companies. I have thus presented a few of the parties' arguments to be part of the majority committee in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e339	The legislative proposal under discussion today forms part of the Ministry of Culture and the Church's follow-up to the Convergence Committee's designation in NOU 1999:26 Convergence - Merging of the telecommunications, data and media sectors. One of the main objectives of the proposals has been to ensure that broadcasting laws are best adapted to the technological and economic framework conditions. At the same time, it has been important that regulation does not unnecessarily involve innovation and market developments in this area. That's why I have a lot of things to do. the proposals in the proposal are neutral in terms of technology — as far as they can be implemented in practice. This will also make legislation more forward-looking, because it must not be changed every time technological development takes a step further. I would particularly like to stress the importance of broadcasting laws not only targeting future developments, but also adapting the current situation. The last thing we've seen is that even if developments in the field of technology are fast, it's about evolution and not a revolution. The most spectacular ideas have in many cases proved to be little different from airlocks. Even if the bill is forward-looking, I have also stressed the importance of doing it on the ground. The boundaries between different sectors such as broadcasting, telecommunications, data and multimedia services have become less marked because the same type of technology can be used for several types of services. Nevertheless, I am not in doubt that a separate regulation of broadcasting is still needed. This is mainly related to the high impact of the broadcasting media and is a very important source of information and participation in the societal debate. I think we all have a sense of what's at the heart of the definition of broadcasting. What's the challenge is to design the definition so that it doesn't cover more than what we want to regulate as broadcasting. I have paid particular attention to drawing the limits to services that are interactive or initiated by the user. I have also stressed that the design of the definition and regulation of broadcasting should comply with Norway's international agreements. I am pleased that the Committee on Family Affairs, Cultural Affairs and the Administrative Affairs has agreed on most of the points in the legislative proposal. The changes that the committee has made, I can live with very well. I have also proposed some changes to the advertising rules in the broadcasting regulation. On the basis of the Stortinget's management of the proposals, I will carry out a review of the advertising rules. In the Committee's configuration, a number point to the very detailed design of the current broadcasting regulation and the need to create a simpler regulation with fewer and more liberal rules. I wrote this down. This work is already in progress. My goal is for a new and simplified regulation to be in place in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e356	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e361	I didn't really intend to take the floor any more in this debate, but the trip bombing from the representative Lånke left a certain need for a few comments about the holiday peace on TV, and in the case of the wire. According to the representative Lånke, you now have a situation where you are free from advertising on a few days. That's not right. So it's like we have advertising on these days, we have it in newspapers, we have it just we stick our head out of the window, on lots of advertising boards around, and in most homes – now I don't know what it's like with the representative Lånke – you have cable TV with 20 channels, 19 of which send advertising. In addition, there are some people who have satellites. It's becoming more and more common. Then you have hundreds of channels where commercial messages are sent. So it's not right that even if we have a special rule in Norway, we will have free advertising on these days. It may be time to realise that time has gone from the Norwegian rules in this area. That's what happened to the cord. It could be said by Lånker's posts as if we were drowning Norwegian homes in group rapes by baptized girls. I do not think you can expect to be taken seriously with such claims. The thing is, in almost all Norwegian homes, you have access to the Internet, where there are far, far worse things going on than what's shown in erotic movies on Canal+ or what it might be. So if Lånker wants baptized girls and gang rapes to life, he has to travel around and hijack some cables. It's the only way he has to stop these things. We don't think you're taking any serious damage to the fact that there's a movie with normal sexual content in the evening, as long as you protect kids for it. There is also one off button on most TVs, and it can be used by those who want it. At the same time, it is technologically possible to block most TVs from this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e375	I'm sorry that the Progress Party and the representative Knudsen will agree that we are going to lay low for all the developments in the cultural policy area around the world, and just let the locks open so that everything can get inward. With regard to the holiday peace, it is probably quite right that you have many channels in the Norwegian homes, and that the advertising there is full in many ways even in the holidays. But we don't have to make this even worse than it is. In the Christian People's Party, we want to be a counter-culture for this, and I think that some of what we've managed to protect in Norway is positive for people in this country -- that we're holding back a little bit and trying to set something up as more sacred than other things, and that these days are a gift to us, an offer to us, where we're going to be allowed to disconnect and connect. At least I believe that the advertisement must be limited as much as possible. We have special rules in many other areas. We have it on tobacco and alcohol, and I also think it is quite reasonable that we have it here. As far as the wire is concerned, you have Internet access, as you say. There's also a lot there that we should have done something with, and that we're trying to do something with. There are now actions against child pornography on the Internet, and I assume that you do not want to get the same conditions on TV as you have on the Internet. I would also like to say that TV is still a more central medium in most Norwegian homes. You have to log in and find out about the Internet. It takes a little bit more time, and it requires a little bit more initiative. The TV is switched on – it's a furniture in the middle of the best room – and no one has control over who can watch it. We believe that there is reason to maintain these rules especially for the TV channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e386	I am pleased with the great agreement to keep the holiday peace when it comes to the absence of advertising a few days a year. For me, the representative Lånke now says, however, a sort of fig leaf when we see what else is in the setting that we are dealing with today. What is happening all the time is market alignment, commercialisation – it is the market that needs to be raw. What we want is not to go back and see what the development of this market has done, but we want a leading commodity position. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party has not been willing to join in and look at any of the leading commodity rules we have put in here, and join in. So to the Knudsen and that it's possible to take in satellite TV and watch advertising. Yes, of course it is, but we who are not looking for advertising, and who look mainly at NRK1, NRK2 and TV 2, it seems nice to let it go, and not least that our kids should be able to avoid getting ‘pressed down’ advertising once a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e393	Ulf Erik Knudsen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e396	I think hardly Lånke and I'm going to agree in this area. The only thing I want to ask for in this context is that we do not link our proposal to a lack of possible respect for the holidays. We believe that the importance of these holidays must be linked to belief and family peace, and not to advertising rules. I observe the holiday peace just as well if it happened to pass a Coca Cola commercial over on TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e401	Ola T. Loan has had the word twice, and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e404	It's going to be very short. I believe that it is quite clear in the position that the Progress Party itself has linked these two things – connecting the holiday peace to advertising – in the way they have done in their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e411	First of all, just a small comment on the comments made by the Progress Party in the statement that the provision on holiday peace in relation to advertising is ‘a special treatment of the specific Christian holidays’, and that, in this context, the Progress Party asks ‘the Government repeals these strange rules’. I really think we should take note of that wording, because it represents almost a paradigm shift within the Progress Party as regards attitudes towards Christians versus Muslims or other holidays. It has not been so many years since a representative of the Advance Party in connection with refugees from Bosnia thought that we should take the Christians in, but keep the Muslims outside. Here a revolution has really happened. However, I would like to start by saying the following: I think it is a little sad that the debate about the big ones – I would say not only evolutionary, but revolutionary – changes in the media area become a debate about the gossip and about advertising on the 1st day of Pentecost. It's about, at least from the Workers' Party, how we're going to deal with this completely open international media reality that we're going to end up in. And there the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has quite right, the Internet and all sorts of merges of different channels are going to make the Norwegian censorship regulations more difficult and more difficult to fill with any meaning. But the question is, how are we going to act actively to ensure that Norwegian language, Norwegian culture, Norwegian social debate, Norwegian news, Norwegian peculiarity and the diversity of what it is to be Norwegian, will be given a place in this media jungle? How can we call about the two major public broadcasters who actually take responsibility over the purely commercial ones? How can we set some milestones or limits in relation to the commercial being too much of an influence on the publisher role that NRK and TV2 are going to have? How can we provide both safe funding and development that serves the development of Norwegian language and culture? We had a debate on that in connection with the media release, which was relatively good, but still we have a great job to do. Among other things, the Workers' Party has called for us to create a general broadcasting poster for the NRK that brings together all the requirements we have for the NRK, in one place, so we were able to relax in every single debate about a bill, or about a budget – and we had that on Friday at the latest – or in other contexts to have detailed discussions about the NRK, detached from a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 243]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e438	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e445	It's changing the theme. It is a large majority of the family, cultural and administrative committees that support the position and support the government's legislative proposals. I'm very happy about that. When the Government is now proposing amendments to the Norwegian State Enterprise Act, it is linked to the adoption by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, of new guidelines on State aid in April 2000. Norway is obliged to comply with the EEA Agreement, and the ESA decision requires adjustments to our company law. The aim of the State aid provisions is to ensure that some undertakings do not obtain any specific competitive advantage in relation to other operators. The majority of the Committee supports all Government proposals for legislative changes. I also think the department has responded satisfactorily to the concerns, concerns and objections raised during the hearing. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has already set up a sample to carry out a more detailed review and assessment of the State Enterprise Act during 2003. Alternative forms of company will be considered in this context. Such a review and debate on the State Enterprise Act is justified, not least because the role of State ownership as a means of achieving socio-economic and political objectives has changed considerably over time. In addition, the Committee has noted that ESA is not satisfied with the Government’s proposal for a solution in Ot.prp. No 13th@item: This may indicate that a review of the State Enterprise Act must be carried out. However, I think the Council of State has outlined a neat way of dealing with the matter in its letter to the Committee of 4 December this year, recommending Odelstinget to deal with the proposition as planned, despite the objections of ESA. Only when these objections are further clarified and evaluated do we know whether a new proposition is necessary. I register that SV is going to go against the legislative amendment proposal. I don't think SV's argument is convincing. The fact that SV is against the EEA Agreement and for that reason is skeptical to comply with the obligations of Norway in relation to membership of the EEA is good enough, but there is a policy of imagination when SV refuses to amend the law under the ESA directive. The SV's suspicion of the government's motives in this case and allegations that the government is pushing ESA forward to legitimizing its own policy is going far beyond the line. In that case, the Workers' Party should have the same motives since they support the government parties. I think that SV's accusations fall on his own unfairness. Finally, I would like to point out that the changes in the State Business Act are a virtue of necessity. It's probably not a matter that's going to arouse the most interest in the media and most of the people, but it's important enough anyway. As rapporteur of the case, I am therefore pleased that a broad majority in this Chamber will support the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e468	Law of 30 August 1991 No. 71 on State undertakings, the so-called State Enterprise Act, states in the second paragraph of Section 4 that bankruptcy and debt negotiations cannot be opened up in State undertakings. If the entity is unable to meet its obligations as they fall due, the State entity shall be wound up unless a plan of continuing operations is adopted that will provide the creditors with cover on maturity. According to Sections 51 and 53 of the Act, the State has liability to creditors who have not been directly satisfied. ESA assumes that these provisions of the Law involve a guarantee from the State. This guarantee receives the state enterprises without paying a market premium. Therefore, in the opinion of ESA, the State Enterprise Act constitutes a general State aid scheme contrary to the EEA Agreement. Against this background, the Government proposes through this proposition to Stortinget to repeal the provisions of the State Enterprise Act on State guarantee liability. The legislative proposal and the introduction of the guarantee premium eliminate the alleged advantage of competition in the law, and the Government thus assumes that Norwegian law is being brought in accordance with the EEA State aid legislation, in line with ESA’s referral. The centre party is known to the entire EEA Agreement but is aware that Norway has an obligation to comply with the concluded agreement. On the other hand, we cannot see that there are any specific demands made by ESA in this case, as it is only written in the proposition that it is proposed ‘In the light of ESA’s enquiry...’. The central party considers that the legislative amendment is fundamentally based on a political assessment rather than on legal and practical considerations and will, on such a basis, oppose the proposed amendment. The centre party is surprised and very dissenting with the majority of the committees if the majority of a comment is to understand that state ownership of these companies is no longer necessary to achieve socio-economic or sectoral policy objectives. For the Centre Party, it is important to clarify that these enterprises continue to have important administrative tasks to perform in society. The center party actually thought that was also Stortinget's opinion. In this context, the Centre Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of a future organisation for State Forest SF, SIVA SF, Statnett SF and ENOVA SF that enables these companies to continue to work on condition that the contents of the State Enterprise Act § 4 and Sections 51 and 53 become applicable.’ It is actually with some wonder that I record that no more than SV so far support us in this proposal. But as you know, there's no shame in turning around. I have thus made the proposal that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e482	Ola T. Heggem has promoted the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e485	SV opposes the proposed amendment of the State Enterprise Act. These are the three good reasons for this. The legislative proposal to remove the guarantee scheme in State undertakings is neither long-term, consistent nor necessary. I'll explain this in more detail. Firstly, the proposal is not lengthened. The Government justifies the change in the ESA's position that the State-owned company scheme implies the creation of market advantage for selected companies through unlawful State aid. I think you should think about those words a little bit slowly, while at the same time you can think about which companies this is about. We're not talking about sausage arches, concurred jersey houses or deserted factories where you once made typewriters. We're talking about vital companies that are fundamental to some of the Norwegian infrastructure, companies like Statskog, Enova, Statkraft and Statnett, to mention someone. In addition, SV considers that the proposal is not consistent. If it is true that the Government has a burning involvement in relation to State aid schemes, it should be sufficient to point out that the same government has implemented general State aid with round hand, which has been implemented smoothly either with or without the ESA’s approval. Examples of this are special taxes for the shipping industry, net wages for seafarers and special depreciation rules for the oil industry, as we have seen in the context of snow-white development. If the Government really wants to do something about unlawful State aid that really monies, SV is involved in removing the Snow White subsidies and the tax burden on shipowners at any time. The proposal that lies before us is not imperative, on the contrary, only a political one. There is no reference to any specific requirement of ESA, as the proposition only states: ‘In particular in the light of ESA’s enquiry...’. It's not a imposition, as we see it. The government has presented this legislative amendment. The government's references to ESA's so-called directives are vague, but they're interpreted extremely. Without really explaining what ESA has specifically said or meant, the ESA Government uses as a front-runner and bulldozer to prepare the ground for another privatisation project. And right here is the most worrying thing about the proposal, which both the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party are going to vote for today, namely the clear political content. The transformation of the State Enterprises Act is yet another step in the chain that becomes detached. State corporations and entities have undergone a gradual privatisation process in recent years. We have seen that hospitals have become state enterprises, the Posten and the NSB have become limited liability companies, universities have gone from being administrative bodies to becoming special law companies with external directors, and plans for the form of companies exist, according to the Research Forum 9/2002. We have seen that the Government together with the Progress Party has ensured that a number of state-owned companies will be sold in full or in part, and the Government announces that it will wind up the entire state-owned company regime during 2003, in addition to the sale of parts of the State-owned company SF during 2003. At present, the State undertaking scheme is to be eroded by the removal of the State guarantee scheme. When the State-owned enterprise scheme is due to be examined later this year, the Government may rightly say that there is no longer any difference between State undertakings and limited liability companies, so there is no reason to maintain Statnett or Enova as a State-owned enterprise. It is my clear view that the proposed amendment is fundamentally based on political wishful thinking rather than on legal and practical realities. The proposal involves another nail in the public ownership box that the state councils Erna Solberg, Victor D. Norman and Ansgar Gabrielsen are happy to stand and snowcre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e502	I do not have a great need to explain the setting, it is well enough presented in the document that lies before us. But I have a brief comment on the representatives of Ola T. Heggem and Magnar Lund Bergo, who in my view draw the setting very far, at least in relation to what the Workers' Party believes. We have not adhered to any general view of privatisation in relation to state enterprises. That is not what is in this proposal or in this vote. On the contrary, we have cooperated with both the SV and the Centre in the matters dealt with after the government change, in relation to what kind of development we have seen in the Post Office, the Vegvesen and other departments. There are important societal tasks to be solved and there is a need for strong public involvement in relation to them. According to the reasons given by the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the grounds for this case are that ESA considers that this is not in accordance with the legislation. In a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Administration, dated 4 December and attached to the recommendation, the Ministry also writes that once it is clear what ESA’s objections are and have been further assessed, the Ministry will decide whether there is a need to promote a new initiative for the Storting. We've dealt with that, and that's also in the context that we've supported the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e509	I have asked for the word to clarify what should really be a matter of course and which is clear from the proposition. The background to this proposal is that the ESA has stated that they believe that the State Enterprise Act, as it now stands, contains general State aid schemes contrary to the rules of the EEA Agreement. That is why this proposal is now being promoted. I don't want to hide that I believe that regardless of ESA's opinion, there is reason to consider the need for changes in the State Enterprise Act in its present form. That is why I have set up a sample to assess the need for and the appropriateness of the state-owned form of enterprise – to what extent it is appropriate for state-owned enterprises. But that's a question we're coming back to. That's not what we're now proposing these changes to the law, it's to meet clear demands from ESA. In this respect, I would also like to make it clear that the Committee and the Stortinget should be aware that, by letter dated 19 November, ESA has stated that they do not consider the measures contained in the law to be sufficient to meet ESA’s demand to eliminate State aid. This means that what we are now proposing of legislative amendment is at least a minimum of what is necessary to comply with the EEA Agreement. According to the government’s assessment, it is enough, but ESA has announced a complete review of the issue and may require further legislative changes. And then we might have to get back to Stortinget with that. But at least what's clear is that we don't get away with anything less than what's now proposed in the law. In this context, we believe that it is absolutely right and quite natural that this should be adopted now. One more thing: the members of the Socialist Left Party of the Committee have stated in the vote, and now also in the Chamber, that the Government is inconsistent when it proposes to amend the State Enterprise Act so that it complies with the EEA Agreement, while at the same time claiming to distribute State aid with a round hand, perhaps contrary to the EEA Agreement. In this respect, I would like to establish two natural things. One is that, of course, this government will distribute State aid for the purposes for which we believe that it should be distributed State aid within the rules by which we are obliged. This government is not dependent on the government abdicating. And even though some in the opposition claim that we're followers of it, we're not. We're followers of an active state. But the other natural thing I want to stress is that the government wants to follow and will follow the rules that Norway is bound by through the EEA Agreement. This includes, inter alia: that the Government makes a concrete assessment of all enquiries by the EFTA Surveillance Authority regarding possible breaches of the State aid rules in the EEA Agreement. And in this specific case of the State Enterprise Act, we agree with ESA that the law involves a general state aid scheme contrary to State aid rules, and that is why we propose to amend the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e522	It has been a prerequisite that the meeting of Odelsting should be terminated at 0 p.m. 13.45 because of Christmas. There has been one more speaker on the list of speakers. The President proposes that we do this matter and the next case be completed before we interrupt the meeting. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e525	Once we have chosen a relationship with the EU in the form of an EEA agreement, it is because some of us wanted to keep what we mention as maritime law. When government council Norman talks about state enterprises, it's okay for me that we have different desires and goals for how it's going to develop in the future. What I miss is in this context the creativity that the Government is able to demonstrate in the context of the Snow White Development, which had the same kind of conflict initially, but where creativity has been shown and found a solution that makes such a kind of expansion possible. I miss creativity and I miss the willingness to keep state enterprises as far as possible in their present form. Ola T. Lånker referred to the note that had come from ESA as an order. I can't see that it's a imposition. I think it's an enquiry. It might have been interesting to hear Norman's view of whether this is an order or whether it's an enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e534	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 246]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e550	No one has asked for the floor. The President proposes that the meeting of Odelsting should be interrupted and set again at 5 p.m. 16:00. [[See page 247]] – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e573	Odelsting will continue to deal with matters on agenda No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e587	This case refers to the previous treatment of parts of the bill by the Storting regarding changes in the electoral law, the parts relating to municipal and county elections. The rules on decision making will be dealt with here in the Chamber during the spring. According to the 1985 Elections Act, voters in municipal elections will have the right to appear once as many candidates from other electoral lists, so-called slenders, corresponding to a quarter of the number of representatives to be elected. In the bill, this access was proposed to be continued, but with the amendment that the limitation in the number that can be entered on each bill was proposed to be lifted. Furthermore, it was proposed that slingers should no longer have an impact on the distribution of mandates. So that's what was in the case here in the hall. And on 14 June, the majority, all except the Workers' Party, adopted: ‘The second paragraph of § 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: The voter may also vote in municipal elections to one or more candidates on other electoral lists. [[optional law]] [[2]] This is done by adding these candidate names to the voting list. Other amendments to the ballot do not count in the candidate list.» The Labour Party, for its part, wanted to abolish this scheme, because we believed it was unreasonable that the voters of one party should have influence over who entered the local government or the county council of another party. But we have lost that debate, and we see no need to re-open it. Then, during the Odelstinget treatment, it became clear that there had been no comprehensive regulation on sleighers in accordance with the majority's intention. The question was therefore forwarded to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which has developed provisions at this point. It's this provision that Odelstinget is now invited to join, so that these things are related to each other, and so that it's OK. The second was that during the review of the record from the processing of the electoral law, it turned out that there had been a lack of clarity. This applies to the third paragraph of § 3-3, who should be excluded from election to county councillor or local councillor. That is why there is a need for clarification there. The third paragraph of § 3-3 is replaced by the following: « Excluded from elections to the county council or local council are: [[3]] (a) the county and the assisting county; and (b) the person in the municipality or county concerned; the head of administration or his deputy, manager of the administration; this does not, however, apply to the manager of individual activities, the secretary of the local government or the county council, the accounting officer or the audit officer.» Corresponding amendments are made to the Act of 25 September 1992 No 107 on municipalities and counties [[municipal law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e638	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e654	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Workers' Party, 5 minutes for each of the other groups and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e663	The day-to-day payment system shall be a system to provide financial security for the unemployed while they are looking for new work. Furthermore, the system shall be so arranged as to encourage individuals to search for work. In this case, the government is proposing a number of legislative proposals which, in sum, help to make things more difficult for people who are unemployed. The proposal will clearly exacerbate the economic situation of jobseekers, and it will involve mainly part-time workers, women and those who are low-paid. The government claims that this proposal helps to get more people to work. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are having difficulty seeing that a reduction in welfare will have such an effect. These parties believe that there are other instruments and strategies that need to be implemented in this way. Among other things, the government suggests that the holiday plugin be disabled. This plugin provides about 10 pst. a decrease in the income of unemployed persons receiving daily benefits for more than eight weeks. For some, this represents a reduction of approximately NOK 19 000 in income. In 2001, 38 000 people were entitled to a holiday supplement. The government also proposes that the minimum basis for claiming daily money be raised from 1.25 G to 1.5 G and that the maximum amount of benefit be reduced from three to two years. This means that around NOK 14 000 a year will have to be paid for the daily allowance. With a salary of DKK 100 per hour, it means that potential recipients of daily allowances must have at least 40 pst. position. This will affect those who work a smaller part of the calendar year, e.g. new entrants to the labour market. In September 2002, 5 000 unemployed persons had been registered for more than 81 weeks, i.e. 1.6 years. It shows that there are some people who will be available in the area between two and three years. According to the Ministry's own forecasts, about 14 000 long-term unemployed people will lose the right to daily allowance as a result of the two-year rule. Now, when the government gets through to reduce the benefit period, it means that many people will get into another kind of benefit if they don't get into work. It is a real fear that it is the municipalities, through their social budget, that will be sitting on this bill in 2005. In two other areas too, the economic situation of recipients of daily allowances will be weakened. One is that the waiting time before the daily allowance is spent will increase from three to five days. The second is that the demand for a reduction in working time is increasing from 40 to 50 pst. before you can claim a daily allowance. All of these proposals are both unsocial and unsolidarian. The Government and the Progress Party have been proud to claim that everyone, and especially at least as far as they are concerned, will receive tax relief through the budget procedure of the House. However, this proposal means a strong tax tightening for many of those who have difficulties in the labour market. Only the proposal to extend the waiting time for daily allowance from three to five days means a tax tightening of about NOK 1000 for the unemployed. It is a shame to note that the majority of people will save money in this area, and then finance tax relief for many who do not need it. That is why there is a basis for claiming that this proposal is both unsocial and unsolvable. Here, there will be little carrot left and a lot of whips, to quote the government's own statements. The Labour Party agrees that there is a certain reality in that the longer one goes passive, the harder it can be to come back to work. But it does not support the fact that the government with this proposal makes these changes primarily to save money. The government also proposes to extend the employer’s pay obligation during the period of leave from 3 to 20 days. Such an extension would, of course, have meant that several companies would opt for termination rather than leave. The Committee welcomes this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e689	The day-to-day payment scheme has two main objectives. Firstly, the day-to-day allowance shall ensure partial compensation for the loss of employment income in the event of unemployment. Secondly, the day-to-day pay scheme should stimulate the unemployed to apply for a job and get themselves a job. This device is widely agreed. That is why the day-to-day payment scheme has also been designed to make the day-to-day payment part of the amount lower than the previous income, corresponding to 62.4 pst. of previous gross income. At the same time, there is also a consensus that the benefit period must be limited. Today, the maximum daily allowance period is three years, while the maximum daily allowance period following the Government’s proposal will be reduced to two years. With regard to the Government’s other proposal to change the job reduction requirement from 40 to 50 p.p., raise the requirement of minimum income from 1.25 G to 1.5 G, increase the waiting time before daily allowances are paid from three to five days and wind up the holiday supplement scheme, the Progress Party supports the Government’s proposals in these areas. Because, following the assessment of the Progress Party, these changes do not have a significant negative impact on the day-to-day arrangements or the unemployed, rather on the contrary. All these changes need to be understood positively, because the changes are intended to help stimulate the unemployed to apply for a job more actively and to make the day-to-day arrangements more focused on those who have a firm and real link with the working life. Research also shows that there is a close link between the demands for day-to-day pay and the time it takes for the jobseeker to get to work. I would also like to add that the Advance Party is pleased that we stopped the Government's proposal to extend the employer's period from 3 to 20 days on leave. It is also important to clarify that the unemployment benefit rate is maintained at the current level, which means that the unemployed are still paid 2.4 per million. the day on which the daily allowance is based. This means, as mentioned above, that the daily allowance scheme should continue to provide a level of compensation of 62,4 pst. of previous pre-tax income. I have also noted the views of the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, on the proposed changes in this matter. The fact that these parties are opposed to the proposed changes is not really so eye-catching. It is disappointing, however, because these proposals are intended to provide job-seekers with increased incentives for themselves to contribute more actively to speeding up work in the event of unemployment. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the majority of the committee, i.e. the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, do not place any emphasis on these purposes any more. All of us should be able to agree that these proposals that the Government has made here will have a positive impact on the individual jobseeker's self-help to get back to work as quickly as possible. In addition to this, I would like to refer to the comments in the position, where the party of progress thus stands together with the government parties of the Right and Christian People's Party. I am referring here to the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e712	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e715	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the minority in the municipal committee is making up a majority in Odelstinget. This matter must be considered in conjunction with the strengthening of the Aetat annexed to the budget. Individual unemployed persons should receive a closer personal follow-up and individual plans. I think it's absolutely necessary. It is unfortunate – yes, it is actually debilitating – in relation to employability to go too long off. Therefore, the Government and the Christian People's Party are in agreement that the agenda should not be more than two years. The average unemployment rate is only five months, so it should be shorter. A closer follow-up of the unemployed is important to reduce the mismatch between job vacancies and job seekers. In this case, it is not – at least not significant – cut to the level of performance of the unemployed. It is the periphery that is affected. We therefore believe that this is necessary in order not to finance people who are not really looking for jobs. And I've been honest with you, I've seen that it's not an up-to-date problem. In addition, research in the field says that such statements must be limited, both in terms of level and duration, in order to move people to new jobs relatively quickly. And that must be the goal for all of us. We have already had this debate in connection with the budget, so I shall not prolong it. What I went up to was to take up the proposal that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party support, and that is essentially going to have multiples in this room. But now the Progress Party was here and took it up, so it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e728	Let me first say that I am pleased that it is appropriate for a majority of the Grand Duchy today to adopt the proposals for amendments to the day-to-day pay legislation, and at the same time to note that there is no support in the Grand Duchy for proposals for amendments to the rules on leave. In addition to that, I would like to emphasise what several representatives have already been involved in, namely the importance of the changes in the day-to-day pay legislation as part of a comprehensive reform to improve labour market policies. The day-to-day payment system itself, as the representative Andersen was involved, should do two things: it should provide financial security for people in a job-seeker phase, so that they can use time and energy to qualify and seek work, and not to obtain a living. On the other hand, the day-to-day pay system should encourage individuals to participate in qualification measures and to obtain a job as quickly as possible. The daily allowance has never been a permanent social security scheme, and it is not a goal for people to go unemployed and receive a daily allowance. The aim is for them to do so for as short a time as possible. Unemployment in Norway is lower than in other European countries, but unfortunately it is rising, and we probably have to be prepared for it to continue to do so. But at the same time, the labour market is tight, not least the strong wage growth this year reflects. So there's not just a shortage of jobs that's why unemployment is increasing. The reason is that those who become unemployed have different qualifications than those required for the job vacancies, and that the actual process of qualifying and disseminating people to job vacancies takes too long. In that respect, we must resort to other measures than those that have been common to labour market policy in the past. Action programmes that can qualify people who lack the necessary qualifications are important, but it is not enough, and it is not only through action programmes that we are able to provide people with other jobs. We have so many unemployed people today as in fact have the qualifications required to get job vacancies, that we have to look for other reasons why they do not get back to work quickly. And it's from that perspective that the change in day-to-day pay itself is an important measure of unemployment reduction that we can put in front of increasing unemployment. Experience from other European countries shows that if we do not have anything to do with such problems early, high unemployment in a sea of job vacancies is easily a chronic phenomenon. And that's one of the reasons why the government parties in the Sem statement put so much emphasis on the development of Aetat as a qualification seat for the jobseekers, and our policy since then has followed up this line. And the changes we are proposing in the day-to-day pay scheme aim to strengthen incentives for active qualification and job search and to clean up the day-to-day pay system as a guarantee of income for those who have become unemployed and who have had labour income as their main source of income. That is why we have proposed to reduce the maximum daily allowance period from three to two years. All the experience shows that this leads to more people returning to work. It is for the same reason that we remove the holiday supplement, which is not really an income insurance during the unemployment period at all, and it is for the same reason that we make slightly higher demands on how much you must have earned, and how much of the job you must have lost, in order to qualify for a daily allowance. All of this will make it clearer that daily allowances are supported in a job-seeker phase, rather than a regular social security scheme. However, the most important thing is that we impose requirements on the beneficiaries to actively participate in qualification measures and actively seek work. Experience both from Norway and from other countries shows that such demands have a major impact on the length of time off. Studies carried out in this area have shown that the demands made to the beneficiaries of daily allowances and the way in which the benefits are managed are crucial to the job search activity of the jobseekers. If individual demands are made, and at the same time good personal follow-up is given by the employment offices, people will be marked back to work faster than has been the case in Norway in recent years. This means that the proposals for amendments to the day-to-day pay legislation have to be seen in the context of the Government's proposals in the 2003 State Budget to strengthen Aetat with around 220 annual works. I am very happy to see that Stortinget has followed up this proposal. At the same time, the ETA will redeploy resources for registration and payment tasks today. All of this will provide increased service to job seekers through closer follow-up of the beneficiaries of the daily allowance. And the combination of more stringent demands for day-care providers, closer personal follow-up and better service by Aetat and more efficient day-care arrangements means that we are getting a new boost in labour market policy, and a labour market policy that is adapted to the problems we have on the labour market today, and not to the problems we had ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e746	The Labour Party refuses to cut the day-to-day pay and leave because we do not want to take money from the unemployed. The changes adopted today will not have such a large impact next year. However, according to the department's own calculations, savings will in the long term amount to about 1.5 billion dollars less for the unemployed, starting with a 4 pst unemployment. In today's Business on 8 October 2002, Secretary of State Ryssdal said the following about the agenda: "We totally disagree that this is taking away the weakest. These are measures to get more people to work. Something is tough carrots – or whip if you want. We want to clear out who are real jobseekers.’ Is the Council of State in agreement with its Secretary of State? And doesn't this one show that the department thinks that many of today's cash recipients are not real job seekers? And when the government will in the long term save about $1.5 billion on this scheme, how does the Council of State feel that all those who may not want to get into work within two years are going to be financially successful? Is it such that they would secure financial compensation through either municipal schemes or other state schemes? Or is it that the economic situation of the unemployed will be worse after the two-year period is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e762	To the last part of the question from Uppebøen Hansen, I can confirm what I have said in this room before, namely that we have special arrangements to catch up with those who are not going to walk for more than two years. They are taken care of, and it does not end up in the municipal budgets. But what I'm more concerned about is that they're actually not going to get into that situation. Uppøen Hansen asked if I agree with my State Secretary in the wording of Today's Business. Yes, I am, but I do not interpret it in the way that Uppøen Hansen does. I don't think we have a lot of day money today that wouldn't want to be real jobseekers. I think it's very few of them. But I think we have many people who really don't work in relation to qualification measures and search processes because they haven't received the necessary follow-up from Aetat, because Aetat has traditionally been an action organizer and a day money payer. The fact that we are now making Aetat an establishment to follow up the individual jobseeker and provide personal service means that there will be far fewer falls outside the system. However, if Aetat is to be able to do that job, it must also be possible for the agency to make demands on individual users. It's now like this with a lot of public service services, that there's nothing that can only be offered over the disk, and then you're done with it. It is a mutual, demanding relationship between the service provider and the service provider. That's what's the essence of the change we're now proposing in co-operation between cash recipients and Aetat. Aetat shall provide better services, each of which shall be obliged to participate in the necessary activities. We think it's necessary to reduce the number of people who don't become real jobseekers, even if they really want to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e771	What I find most depressing about the proposals we are now considering is the very basic attitude of the Minister. The basic attitude itself seems to be that only we tighten enough up against the unemployed, several of them will spread out into work, and then it's more like that with those who remain. The basic idea of the Minister of Labour and Administration is very much based on a very simple market economy thinking, which is also the basis of the system they have in the United States, where we know that fewer people benefit from public services – simply because the public services of the unemployed are too poor. Well, part of them take work, but there is poorly paid work, which does not secure people in any way, and which is not particularly encouraging to those who are actually dependent on social services, depending on a unemployment allowance to live off, and who are hit very hard. In exactly the same way, Norman's proposal will work. Those who are definitely dependent on benefits will come out much worse. In that way, the government will hit the people they claim they want to help, namely those who need it the most. The whole thing is that that day – and that’s my challenge to Norman, I realize that Norman thinks in this way with his right thinking – it must be that Aetat offers a good offer to everyone. But why can't Norman be more concerned about just making sure that everyone gets an offer, until he starts thinking about the way he does now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e777	Normally I would say that there was little the Minister of Labour could do with the representative Holmås' depression, but in this case I think I can do something with them. There is no reason to be depressed when reality is not as the representative Holmås says it is. An incorrectness doesn't get any better because it repeats many times. We are not tightening up against the jobseekers for whom the representative Holmås is concerned. We don't cut five cents in the benefit level for those who have the labour market as their main connection, and labour income as their main source of income. On the other hand, they no longer get holiday pay after they have finished being unemployed and are back to work – but there is something quite different. We're increasing the proportion initially, and we're doing that to free up resources, so that it can become more closely followed by the individual. If in this context I can only replicate a little more generally: a number has been made that this must be a serious tightening to the unemployed, as the state expects to save more than NOK 1 billion when the effect comes to full. But I hope that it is not a goal for the Storting to spend as much money as possible. I thought it was a goal of the Storting in its work to make sure that people could handle themselves as much as possible, so that we did not use the community's funds in areas where it was unnecessary. It must be much better for people to be out of work, to get income and get on it, than to have the double frustration of being out of work and in addition to being the beneficiary of a daily allowance. The long-term savings that we achieve through the changes in the legislation on the day-to-day arrangements are savings that are mainly related to people returning to work instead of going on a day-to-day basis. I believe that this must be a legitimate objective, no matter what the political point of departure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e788	The 2003 state budget is agreed, and the issue we are dealing with today is part of the budget, something that goes beyond the Committee's own. In the Central Party, we support the proposal on activity requirements. We are pleased that one in the budget agreement has reversed the requirement that the laws have imposed on employers. Elles has made Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen in a tidy way for our position. But I really have to ask: can the Council of States stand here and say that it is imposed five days' wages instead of, like today, three are not a curtailment? Can he stand here and say that it is increasing the amount of working time reduction from 40 pst. to 50 pst. is not a curtailment, nor does it require an increase in income in relation to today? That the distance is so great from the Ministry of Labour and Administration to those who owe it to me, I really wouldn't have believed it. For our part, we're actually worried about those with the lowest incomes and with the weakest connection to working life. Let me remind you that it is both about people who have combined work and care in a special way – some have combined work and further challenges, and some have now been part of a more inclusive working life, preferably too short a time ago, for example. as a result of a disability. These are the ones that will now be frameed. How does the Government's profile match that of caring for family and care? Is it only the most highly paid family government to care for? When there is a tightening of several hundred million dollars in additional income for the country, is it such that one can expect it to be used for the sick — tightening up the sick’s wages to help the sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e799	I will willingly admit to the representative, Meltveit Kleppa, that increasing the self-interest period from three to five days is a narrowing. There is an intrusion that primarily affects those who are free very short, but it is an intrusion – I am willing to admit it. As for the other changes, I would like to remind you of what I have said in the Storting before, and what I also said in my post, is that these are not measures that affect those who have the labour market as their main connection and labour income as their main source of income. Increasing the minimum income requirement, combined with the special rule we have for people who have not met this requirement, but who have worked for a long time, means primarily hitting school students and students who are out for their first job. The increase in the reduction in working time from 40 to 50 pst. does not particularly affect those who have part-time work, but it says something about how much unemployment you have to stay in order to be able to count as unemployed compared to the day-care system. That means you have a 20 pst. job, it has to be reduced to 10 pst. to be regarded as unemployed. If you have a 100 pst. job, at least you have to lose half the job. This has to do with targeting actions against those that the day-to-day payment system has always been meant to be aimed at helping.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e808	There is no disagreement that those receiving unemployment benefits should be genuine job seekers. Nor is there any disagreement that there is a need, at any time, for Aetat to reach out for an even better offer. What is therefore the consequences of these proposals is that, despite the increased efforts of Aetate and despite being real jobseekers, they are not able to get work, as is the case with the changes proposed here. I then find, like the Council of State, that unemployment benefit is a guarantee of income for a period of time. But what follows from the proposals put forward by the Council of State is that those who, in spite of a two-year effort to obtain work, an effort from themselves and from Aetat, have not received work, will no longer have income security, but will be referred to for social assistance. In short, it means that the Government's poverty plan is a plan to create more poor people. The second is that a person who has been unemployed for one year and who has necessarily been an active job seeker with the help of Aetat, who comes to work, will not be able to have a holiday with his or her family because the holiday money is reduced by NOK 20 000 in a situation where he or she has returned to work. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that those who have actively worked to obtain income support must move to social assistance after two years? And does the Council of State consider it reasonable that a person who has been unemployed for more than one year may have a holiday loss of almost NOK 20 000, with the result that both himself and the family are hit in such a way that they do not have the opportunity to take the common holiday that any family of children can take?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e819	I think, first of all, we have to have the realities a little bit clear for us. The statistics show very clearly that those who have been unemployed for more than two years almost entirely fall out of the labour market. It has something to do with the duration of the leave, and it has to do with disability benefits or other social security schemes in the system. It's the most important reality we have to take inwards. We have a window of no more than two years to help people get back to work, and our main obligation is to take full advantage of that window. That is why we are proposing a reduction from three to two years in the maximum daily allowance period. But then we have special arrangements that catch them up anyway, today after three years, in the future after two years, have not come to work, and it's not because of them themselves. Those special arrangements are above our budget and administered by Aetat. It's not right that people have to go to social assistance if they're in the category that Schjøtt-Pedersen is talking about. But when that's said, I just have to stress again: it's vital for us to take advantage of the time until two years have passed, if we're going to have the hope of actually helping people back to work, and that's what this should be about. With regard to the question of holiday pay and holidays, it must be clear that the concept of having a holiday away from being unemployed is a little problematic in itself. It's actually so problematic that it doesn't exist for them in the second category of relatives we have here, that is, the ones on reintroduction, the term doesn't exist at all. There are no holiday arrangements and holiday supplements for them on repatriation. It is an abnormality that this system was introduced at all in its time. On that basis, I see no problem in that people who receive support from the public for 12 months of the year also do so in the period when they are unemployed and go on a day-to-day basis. That is the scheme we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e828	Sir. President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e835	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is given the floor to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e838	Governments were injured to talk about vacations from active job search during the period of unemployment. That's not what I was talking about. I talked about earning rights, that when you're done with unemployment, you've come to work and have not earned your holiday rights to have a vacation from the work you've entered, you don't have the financial opportunity to take a vacation with your family.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e843	Yeah, I think it's quite reasonable. The day-to-day payment system shall provide financial protection during the working-eager period, and it shall provide it. It has never been intended that this scheme should provide public support after the end of the unemployment period. Again, the analogy with vocational rehabilitation is quite clear: there is no such holiday pay scheme. And those who had to think that such a system should be in place should at least propose the same thing to people who are on vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e848	I would once again point out to the Minister of Administration that when he says that there is now no need for as many labour market measures as it has been in the past, because the people who are currently unemployed have a much greater competence than before, I think he is hiding what is the reality of the matter. What works, and what the Council of State itself has written in its budget to work, are labour market measures. He says that it works, and the chance of getting into work after having been on labour market measures is about twice as much as it is if you haven't been on such measures. Then is my clear challenge to Victor Norman: The day the minister can be sure that all people have the skills to get out of work, it's so little about labour market measures like what we have this year, okay. But today, when we know that we only have one third of the level of labour market action that we had the last time we had as many unemployed people as we do now, I think it seems too simple that the minister just says: this is fine, all these people are well educated enough to get a job, so we don't need any more labour market measures. The second thing is that the restriction that the minister is in favour of here is purely savings, both what goes on the holiday supplement, and what goes on for the number of days. What you could say is that Norman and the government take this money from the people who are unemployed, either for a short time or over a long time, and then you give tax relief to those people who need money much less than the unemployed. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e857	I don't think we're going to take the general budget debate again here now. I think the government parties' perception of who gets tax relief is a little different from the representative Holmås," but I think we should leave it. I just want to make it clear that we are proposing an increase in the number of action sites this year. We have a range of action sites of over 30,000, and I do not believe that action sites are an important measure to get people back to work. As I said in my post, many people lack the necessary qualifications, and it is important that we have offers for them. This is why the Government has also said that we are going to follow developments in the labour market continuously and assess the need for action in the light of it. But we can't see that the action areas at the moment are the bottleneck in getting people back to work. On the other hand, we note that there is a very large number of the new unemployed in the last year who obviously do not need to qualify for the labour market. There's a lot of people with very high qualifications. They need financial support while they are available, they need advice and guidance from Aetat, and they themselves need to actively seek other work. It would be pointless for this group of people to park them on labour market measures. The situation was not quite different until the 1990s when it came to the relationship between unemployment and labour demand. In that case, it could be defended to place people on measures only to activate them, because activation is important even when you are out of work. But that's not the situation we have in the labour market now, so it makes no sense to look at the ratios between places of action and the unemployed now and ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e865	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[See page 249]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e883	This case concerns the question of the payroll treatment of the employment disputes between the Norwegian Health and Social Associations and the Norwegian Municipal Association on the one hand and the National Association of Service Companies on the other hand in connection with the 2002 tariff exemption. The Committee gives its support to the Ministry's recommendation. The Ministry trusted the State Health Authority, which thinks that there could be a danger to life and health, and that therefore advised the Municipal Minister to intervene and ask the parties to return to work. Then, in the light of the State Health Authority's assessment, the Committee finds it appropriate to draw up its own observations on the role of municipalities. This applies then to a strike in relation to the National Association of Service Enterprises, and that is to say, to the postponement and privatisation of a vulnerable area. It can be seen from a letter from the State Health Authority that some of the municipalities involved were not aware of their role in the conflict. Accordingly, the Committee of Governments asks the State Health Authority to clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities, even in a situation of conflict, in the context of the launching and privatisation of services falling within the scope of this Act. So the committee shares one point. The majority in the Committee – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre – which unfortunately is the minority here in the Chamber, also notes that the Health Authority in its letters states that the crew of several of the institutions involved appears initially to be so low that the institutions were very vulnerable to a strike. We find it very alarming, and we think that this must mean that the government is conducting a review of the crew at private hospitals. And so is it that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party believe that one should comment on this, so they stress that it is the municipalities' responsibility to specify requirements for an institution or a supplier in an offer process. And they assume that through this process the municipalities ensure the need for adequate and defensive personnel. The Progress Party and SV have a comment of a more general nature, which indicates that they found different governments to be somewhat overactive in relation to the use of forced pay. Finally, let me just stress that I think this is reason to point out what has emerged, which applies to lower wages for this type of organization compared to the public, and what is true of a claim that staffing down to the sanctuary seems to be characterised as a danger to life and health. And there's every reason, when an intervention here after four days, to ask questions about the striker when it applies to health professionals. And all of this I think is something that there's reason to ask the department to follow closer up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e900	Forced payroll is a very serious intervention in working life, and there is a great doubt SV this time says yes. We're also doing that very seriously, because the reason this time is that the Health Authority says that life and health are threatened. I think it must be of great concern to all of us that there is such a serious state as that the manning, which is considered common on many weekends, is such that the Health Inspectorate says that it is serious and dangerous for life and health. I think that the situation that the Health Authority has revealed is quite alarming, initially for those who are totally dependent on care and care. It turns out that in many places there is so little manning that it's actually completely on the edge of what's right. We as big ones must have overall responsibility. We have it, and we have to take responsibility for the quality of care, regardless of whether it is given publicly or privately. We also need to take overall responsibility for ensuring good working conditions for those who are going to do these important jobs for us – there are vital jobs for those who need care and care – and they need to be able to do their jobs in such a way that they can live with them and stand in the job of retirement age. This is about private nursing homes this time. We can make a lot of that policy out of it, and we're going to do it in other contexts. But I also want to say that with the local economy we have – we know that in several municipalities, whether they have to put off competition because they don't have money or they have to cut sails because they don't have money – we're close to this and maybe it's exactly the same in many places. That means that I believe that this matter must be a crossroads for us in setting quality standards of care and care, and that the standard of manning for such institutions must be clarified by the Stortinge, so that there is economic space to be able to provide care and care at a proper level. And that responsibility, I mean, we can't push over to the municipalities. It is a responsibility that the Stortinget and the Government must assume, both in terms of quality standards and the economy, which must necessarily follow. I think that before we get it into place, it's an illusion to talk about strike right for these employee groups that we're talking about here. There have been several such cases before, and these groups have not, in principle, struck when not one of them can be taken into strike without endangering the lives and health of patients. As I have said, it is very much in doubt that SV has joined the position in this matter, but I look forward to hearing how the Minister of Local Affairs is further looking at this, whether there will be any impact on the government's view of the local economy, and whether there will be any impact on the government's responsibility for setting reasonable frameworks and quality standards for the activities to be run in the municipalities and, where appropriate, as the Government wishes, being put on the market. This case has clearly demonstrated the need for such quality standards. I welcome the comments made by the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e913	I would just like to make a very brief comment on this matter from the Group of the European People's Party. As the Progress Party assesses this conflict between the Norwegian Health and Social Associations and the Norwegian Municipal Association on the one hand and the National Association of Service Companies on the other hand, the basis for wage-earners' treatment is clear in this case. Nevertheless, I would just like to mention very briefly that the Progress Party is generally of the view that the social partners themselves should be able to find solutions to conflicts in the labour market through free negotiations. However, the Progress Party agrees that there is a real risk to life and health in this case, and therefore believes that there is a basis for action to stop the conflict and allow the Rikswohnsnänder to settle this conflict. I would just like to refer to the comment in the vote, where the Socialist Left and the Progressive Party express the need to be very careful in dealing with conflicts in the labour market. That's our attitude. In this case, we have found that there is a basis for supporting the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e922	It is the social partners who are responsible for the settlement of income and for the peace of work. It is also true that society normally has to endure the disadvantages of a strike, but it is nevertheless generally accepted that there are limits to how far the right to work goes. And there are some working groups who work in such important positions in our society that they may experience that their job opportunities are smaller than those of other groups. It is more because of the importance of their job to society than they are particularly vulnerable to stopping their possible work conflicts. The conflict between the Norwegian Health and Social Associations and the Norwegian Municipal Association and the National Association of Service Companies started on 5 December 2002 after mediation between the parties did not take place. The dispute concerned the revision of the care and care agreement, which is more than just wage negotiations, and the strike hit private hospitals and social alarm centres. Labour conflicts in this area are of the kind that quickly have serious consequences for some of the most vulnerable groups in our society. This was also done in 1998, when a major strike in the whole hospital was also stopped relatively quickly after a strike in the same area. When the strike started on 5 December, it included 65 workers, divided into six nursing homes and two safety centres. On December 6th, it was announced the escalation. The escalation would take effect on 11 December. The first two days, December 6 and 7, were not alarming at reports from the State Health Authority. However, the Health Authority expressed the view that the manning of several of the institutions involved initially seemed to be so low that the institutions were very vulnerable to a strike. Already in the afternoon of December 8th, it was reported that the situation was worrying at two of the institutions in Trondheim. And the same evening, it was announced that if there were no more exemptions, these places from the next morning would have so low staff that there was a danger to the health of the residents, and possibly also a danger to life. After I contacted the Norwegian Health and Social Association in the morning on 9 December, there was another full and one partial exemption. But this was not enough to prevent an irresponsible situation. The government therefore saw no other option than to propose to stop the strike and settle the dispute in the event of forced pay. The parties were briefed on this at a meeting in the morning on 9 December. I'm glad that a unanimous municipal committee joined the Government's proposal to stop the strike and have the Rikswohnsnanne resolve the conflict. But I am not happy that we have had to go to the grip of using forced pay. That's the third time we do it this year. All three times, the main problems have arisen through the dispensation systems and the lack of proper functioning of the strike and the dispensation systems. I have also noticed the view of the Committee's members from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left on the consequences of the use of forced pay. I basically don't disagree with them about it. I believe that forced payroll is an intervention that must be used in the outermost and most important cases, as I believe that this government has so far practiced it. The Committee has some comments on municipal responsibility for a service offer carried out by private actors. I believe it is important to stress that the municipalities are responsible for the quality of the service offered, including where the provision of services is left to private businesses. Yes, it may indeed be that, in those cases, the ability to inspect and control the municipality will be strengthened if the municipality sector wishes to use it. During the conflict, the responsibility of the municipalities was pointed out by the health director in a letter to the municipalities concerned. In the letter to the Municipality of Frosta, the Health Director stressed that it is the municipality that is responsible for the necessary healthcare for the inhabitants of the municipality. I have noticed that the Municipal Committee asks the Government to clarify to the Health Authority the responsibilities of the municipalities. We'll follow that up. At the same time, I think it is easy to use such a conflict to address a major political discussion. Of course, no one can stop you from doing that. But I think Karin Andersen is actually right in saying that it is not certain that the point that has been made by the Health Authority in this matter applies only to private offers. It may also be related to the situation in the care of the elderly in general. I would like to point out that the Minister of Social Affairs has announced that there will be a big message about the quality of care for the elderly, where the staffing issues will also be assessed and discussed. This message will be submitted to Stortinget during the spring, and then you can also look a little independently of the compulsory payroll on the questions raised here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e950	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e953	The Council of State stresses that the parties are responsible and says that the exemption system has not been resolved this time. There is a very strong contradiction to what the Council of State said first in its speech, that there is a very vulnerable situation here, as the Health Authority also notes. This means that it is so vulnerable that it is not possible to strike in these institutions. I think the Council of State should clarify more clearly what she actually thinks is why it's going to be a strike. From our side, we are quite clear that it is not the dispensation or the granting that has been the problem this time. I think the Health Authority is also quite clear about that. As far as municipal responsibility is concerned, I am pleased that the Council of State underlines this. It's going to be a very big responsibility for a government council that's in charge of the local economy. The municipalities are now asked to put off competition, and they are asked to save money, almost cost what it costs, and go beyond almost what it has to do, because in practice it turns out who it is like for this. On the one hand there are the old and sick, and on the other hand there are the ladies who are going to run off their legs. When you look at what the conflict is about, I can imagine that someone can argue that when you make such a poor pay offer, you're going to put low in the competition for labour, and so on, the private institutions won't be very attractive. I don't think there's any solid argument at all. In SV's view, it is not that there are some types of market forces that can be triggered by situations of conflict that can guarantee neither that we have an elderly care we can be familiar with, nor that we have a working life that does not take health from people. That's our main problem here. That is why I challenge the Council of State again whether she can say anything more, whether there is anything more about quality requirements and manning requirements that must actually be in place to ensure that life and health are not threatened on a regular weekend, because that is what the Health Inspectorate now says is the state of care for the elderly in several places.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e966	The representative Karin Andersen until the State Health Authority's views that I have never heard the State Health Authority have had or expressed, namely that the sanctuary should generally be a danger to life and health in the care of the elderly. Nor do I believe that the state councils that have the constitutional responsibility for life and health or for the care of the elderly will sign that the situation is the same. But we know that there is a need to review the quality of care for the elderly. We have a large wave of older people in front of us and the need to increase the number of people employed in care for the elderly, in institutions, in housing and in care services in general for the elderly. In the follow-up to the action plan for the care of the elderly, it has also been announced that the quality of care for the elderly will be restored. I will therefore not now go into a discussion about what requirements. The government has not come to such a stage that we have completed the examination of the issues relating to quality requirements, the issues relating to how and, where appropriate, the setting of standards or the work to be undertaken, such as: in relation to the supervision of elderly care services in Norway. But the government has promised that the Storting will get a case to deal with these questions, which will give you the full opportunity to go through them. I would like to stress that we are now dealing with the question of compulsory pay. I think it's dangerous with a basis in a situation of two hospitals, generalising all over the issue of competitive outsourcing and non-competitive outsourcing or the effects it has. I believe that there should be a slightly greater basis for assessing the coherence and comparability of situations within a municipality for the publicly operated and privately operated elderly care services than just one sentence in what the Health Authority has written to us. It may be that, as I said, this situation can be equally difficult in the municipal sector in some municipalities. It could also be that you've gone too low on the crew somewhere. But I would like to say that there is no warning from the Health Service that underlines what the representative Karin Andersen said, namely, that the sacred service at the institutions is so bad that there is a danger to life and health. I would also like to stress that in this case a number of exemptions were applied for and were rejected. I personally had to contact the Norwegian Health and Social Associations – because I did not want to go quickly to forced payroll – to ask them to grant more exemptions in order to get on a satisfactory crew. They did a little bit, but not enough, and that's why we got into the situation we're in right now. I still think that the discussions about the exemption system are an important part of keeping the strike set up better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e979	A brief comment from my side on two sides of this matter that we are dealing with today. One is the use of compulsory payroll. I think it is a good thing that the Council of State is concerned because one has just intervened three times in a short time with forced pay. I thought it was good that she reviewed and looked at the dispensation system and how it worked. But I thought that in that context she would also include whether it is said that in all three of these cases we are talking about vulnerable areas, where it is going to be very little until there is a risk to life and health, and therefore very little until the emergency situation in which the compulsory payroll can be used is present. So it's natural, either one is a councillor or one is a member of the municipal committee, asking questions, I thought, by what has been said about manning. I share the concern that has been expressed here that a low manning factor may be the case both at private institutions and at older institutions in general, i.e. also in the local authorities. From the Committee's point of view, it is now necessary to add wages to private institutions that we are dealing with. Therefore, it was natural to limit ourselves to that, as the plural points out in a comment. Then, too, the government, as a follow-up to its local authorities, continues to impose an excellent demand for efficiency, an excellent demand to turn all the stones around. Yes, in addition, we are now going to have a large round of challenge rights in relation to the launching of competition and privatisation. So I'm going to ask the Council of State on the one hand to be busy, in cooperation with the councils it's supposed to be, to raise the quality, but I'm also going to ask her if she sees that it can have a connection with the municipalities' financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e992	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and is now given the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e996	What is stated in the letter we received is that the sea is said that by evening shifts it can be a similar crew, the county board and the municipal board believe that it is worse when things are going on for many days. But the starting point is that it’s just as bad — often, and I think the Council of State should be more concerned about it. It is a fact that this is how you save money when you have to save money in the municipalities. So when you put off competition, you save money on low manning and low wages. Does the Council of State feel that saving money is a sensible and sound way of doing it? So this is done before you've defined a quality that you can be sure of. You think it's all right to save billions of dollars when we know what the result is at the other end: it's bad care, it's too low staffing, and it's too bad working conditions for those who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1003	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 250]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1019	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1028	rapporteur on the subject): the proposal before us contains some legislative proposals which have been promoted as a result of the State budget and the decisions taken there. The proposals concern: non-compliance with the protection of public health abroad under temporary housing documentation of the animal diet for the right to basic welfare improvement of the tested tomb assistance and the winding-up of the ordinary social welfare allowance for reading and secretarial services for daily life for the blind and partially sighted transitional allowances for lone dependants during the school year; These are good and targeted proposals. With the exception of the proposal to wind up the ordinary gravitational assistance and the proposal to reduce the benefit of child care, this proposal has been largely agreed upon in the Committee. In the view of the majority of the majority, failure to cover health expenditure abroad in the public interest is justified. The vast majority of the Nordics who travel abroad are well acquainted with private travel insurance. This is a built-in system — and attitude — among the Nordics who are going out and out. As the Minister of Social Affairs has explained to the Committee in letter form, the Ministry does not know of any groups having difficulty in taking out this type of travel insurance. The proposed change in the transitional benefit for lone carers means that single carers in training are to receive transitional support for the training year, so that the training year can be completed without reducing the benefit. This means significant simplification for those concerned, not least by making the scheme more flexible when it is adapted to the individual training cycle. It is in everyone's interest that the possibility of education should be made as available and realistic as possible. As regards the change in the gravitational aid, the Government has proposed to cut out the universal aid, i.e.: the financial aid granted to all, irrespective of income and wealth, is DKK 4000. In return, the Government proposes to increase the amount of aid deemed necessary, i.e. the aid granted to those who actually need it, from today's 12 250 kroner to 15 000 kroner. Now, therefore, this aid will cover the cost of a funeral. This point was strongly debated during the budget debate, and there is no reason for any further comments beyond that. In the preliminary budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, there is a consensus to reduce the rate of popular support for child care from 70 p.m. to 66 pst. of the expenditure documented. As at present, the benefit will be abolished by income over eight times the basic amount, i.e. when you have income equal to NOK 432000. The majority of the Committee considers this reduction to be appropriate, including: due to the strong childcare effort carried out next year. It is also gratifying that blind and partially sighted people who do not have data or other writing aids can now receive a grant of up to 20 hours of reading and secretarial assistance per year. years. As the Social Minister also stated in his letter to the Social Committee, the scheme could provide a person up to 80 hours of reading and secretarial assistance per year. the month through a combination of the different schemes. This will therefore help many people to function even better in their daily lives. This is also a follow-up to a proposal from the Norwegian Blind Alliance, which has been referred to on several occasions and supported by a unanimous committee. As I explained at the outset, this is a proposition that follows up the budgetary decision and the budget debate. The minority in the Committee has followed up its alternative proposals through the examination of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1065	As the rapporteur pointed out, this matter is a consequence of what has been adopted in the context of the 2003 State Budget. The Party of Advances argued its disagreement in the Government's arrangements both in the case of the absence of the coverage of healthcare abroad by the people's rights during temporary residence and in the case of the cancellation of the general grant of tombs in this budget. As the Progress Party pointed out in its contributions to the examination of the draft budget of the Social Committee for 2003, these amendments are reflected in the alternative budget of the Progress Party but have not been agreed in the negotiations with the Government Parties. Since the debate has been held in the context of the budgetary procedure, I shall not spend any more time arguing why these two mentioned amendments are not to be recommended, but merely to point out that, as a result of the budgetary agreement reached, the Progress Party will vote in favour of all the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1076	I will not keep any long posts, because as many people have been involved, these matters have been dealt with in connection with the budget for next year. I just want to point out that in one of the cases here, there's a cut in the babysitting system. It may not appear to be very much, but it comes as a consequence of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party. It thus makes a profile visible in the budget adopted and in the document available here, which particularly affects the weak groups. It also shows in many ways the problem related to the signal sent out earlier this year by the Progress Party on increasing child care spending, if it is not to be seen in a wider context, namely the need to implement other measures protecting children and ensuring a secure framework around them. It is obvious that supervision related to single dependants is an example of that. I see that the cut is not dramatic, but it's a direction and a profile of what gives a wrong signal. This applies to several of the individual items in the budget, which have just been made through the agreement of the Progress Party with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1085	As previous speakers have said, this matter is closely linked to the budgetary decisions taken last week. However, I would like to make some comments on some of these matters. This applies, inter alia, to: the loss of the coverage of healthcare abroad during temporary residence by the public interest. We have received a proposal from the Government about this. In a letter after the proposal was submitted, it is said that everything will now be covered by the fact that those who live abroad in the event of sickness and have insurance will receive cover through the insurance. Nevertheless, this case has many exceptions in relation to, among other things. non-resident members of the population who reside in countries other than the country of residence and Norway. The coverage is maintained for oxygen and dialysis treatment, at birth, in the context of the EEA Agreement and for persons residing abroad but who are members of employee schemes in Norway or are on the Norwegian continental shelf. This makes us maybe get a little bit of a grey zone ratio. We therefore want, together with SV, to maintain the current system and will vote against the proposed changes in sections 5-24. That's the gravitational aid. It has been discussed so many times in this room lately that I will pass it quite quickly. I would nevertheless like to say that I think it is a pity to now wind up the general general funeral assistance and get a scheme that is an extended need-tested scheme. This will make the situation difficult and painful for many in a time that is difficult enough anyway. This is to tailor welfare systems, such as: The Minister of Social Affairs has said several times. But it's tailoring in such a way that you get a need test, and it's becoming a more unsocial approach to a welfare system that's been in force for everyone to this day. So a little bit about the right to transitional assistance out of the school year, the folklore law §15-6. I am very pleased that this change has been made, so that those who now have transitional benefits and have problems because of education, do not get cut in the school year, but finish their education. It will address some of the problems that have come to this group after the transition aid was changed and became fully effective from 2001. It turns out that two thirds of those asked in the evaluation of this conversion have problems in managing unforeseen expenditure, and that the increase in the level of social benefits has not kept pace with the increase in costs, for example. for housing and other fixed expenditure. At least then, it is important to change the regulatory system so that you can take the training you need to maybe get into a paid job and in a performance situation where you can handle your obligations. So finally a little bit about the benefit of child care for single parents. Like Mr Ballo, I would like to express my concern that the government parties and the Progress Party, by reducing the support of the people's rights to child care, weaken the economy of lone-parents with young children. This is a group that is having a difficult time already, and with the policies of the majority, these difficulties will now become even greater. This must be the opposite of taking care of those who have the most difficulty in society, and it must be the opposite of pursuing a poverty policy to balance differences and mitigate the problems of some vulnerable groups. We will therefore also oppose the change proposed here by the Government in relation to the fifth paragraphs of Sections 15-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1098	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 250]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1114	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party, 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is Asmund Kristoffersen, for the spokesman in the cause, who is a member of the Lamentations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1123	The question of obtaining protection arrangements for expenditure not included in the current free card scheme has been raised in Stortinget on a number of occasions, both in connection with the treatment of the State budget and in other cases. The organisations of disabled people have repeatedly presented material, both in consultations within the Committee and by other means, showing that particularly groups of chronically ill and disabled people have severe costs that are not covered by current self-employment schemes or other schemes. The current free card scheme is governed by § 5-3 of the Law on People's Rights and is governed by the regulation. The Ministry has now proposed a new screening system based on a report from a working group from June 2002. The screening system shall include physiotherapy, reciprocating dental treatment with the exception of orthodontic orthopaedic surgery, stay at training centres and abroad treatment trips, so-called climate travel. Although this is a limited arrangement, it is important that the very principle of self-participation 2 is established, and I would like to commend the Government and the Council of State for this. Since only a relatively small amount has been allocated to cover this shielding system, we have to assume that the scheme needs to be further developed and expanded in order to bring it more into line with both needs and expectations and to become more consistent with Storting's leadership. There will obviously be a discussion about whether, among other things. the following services shall fall below the ceiling: municipal service medicinal products in white prescription medical facilities for hearing aids Nor is there any doubt that arrangements are still in place to cover dental expenses. This applies not least to the way in which the rehabilitating of teeth after dental disease is to be carried out periodically under the roof system. Although municipal ownership was not part of the above sample work, this has to be assessed. In particular, the Association for the Disabled and the FFO of Norway has shown to the Committee how a number of individual services are dealt with with by a proportion of people with special disabilities. A majority of the Committee has also made a proposal asking the Government, in the context of its proposal for the 2004 budget, to look at the municipal services that should be included in the ceiling 2 scheme and how. There are also different views in the Committee at the level of Roof 2, but the majority now chooses to support DKK 4500 as a level. Let me conclude by saying that the introduction of roof 2 is a good step in the right direction and a proposal that deserves support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1158	The introduction of a roof 2 into the People's Security Act is a very long-lasting and correct change in the law. Disabled and chronically ill people, who are the first to benefit from roof 2, have paid large sums in instalments for necessary treatment in order to have a viable everyday life – treatments that are equally necessary for the patients concerned, as today’s free card scheme is for others. It's not hard to understand that the difference in proportion feels unfair. A Roof 2 scheme has been a desire for a long time, including from the Social Committee. But in the past, the wish for such a scheme has not been fulfilled. Former health ministers have even stated that they have little faith in a roof 2. Former Minister of Health Tore Tønne expressed it to the Evening Post in connection with the 2001 Grand Prix. In addition to having little faith in the scheme, he believed that a new credit card cap would lead to someone falling outside again, and he had more faith in individual measures aimed at concrete issues and groups. That's why there's every reason to praise the co-operation government with the Health Minister at the head that they've done it. It is also a unanimous committee that praises the Government that the principle of a roof 2 is in place. One of the reasons for the government’s success is probably also that users have been taken with them and listened to their recommendations in order to find out what the roof 2 device should be. The Committee points out in its opinion that the proposed scheme needs to be further developed. In order to protect chronically ill and disabled people, it is important both to look at how the proposed scheme will work and to consider how an extension can be designed to protect the target groups concerned even better. It will also be important to actively draw on the experience and competence of user groups. In the case of excesses in municipal services, the Government has not had time to investigate this in this instance. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre, have proposed that the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2004 State Budget, promote the issue of which municipal ownership can be incorporated into the Roch 2 scheme and how. However, the Government will return to the Stortinget during the spring of 2003 with the Government’s work on financing and consumer payment schemes for the care of elderly people. In addition, the Government requests the Government to carry out an evaluation of the scheme after two years. There is also reason to recall that the areas now included in the Roof 2 scheme have been included as a result of recommendations from the working group which was set up, with the participation of user organisations, With regard to the same majority of the assumption that rehabilitating in relation to the disease is to be covered by periodontite, the Government Parties wish to submit this later to the Stortinget. The reason why this is not included under roof 2 was the lack of evidence on the treatment needs and costs of this type of treatment – two requirements for documentation that should have been mapped before assuming or adopting anything in this room. Nevertheless, this new scheme and its arrangements have broad support both within the Committee and outside this House. It is a step towards a better and more equitable treatment of chronically ill and disabled people, who have previously paid an unreasonable share to receive treatment for their illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1175	The introduction of a self-employment benefit scheme 2 for persons with disabilities and/or chronic disorders to limit their large costs of illness, which are currently not covered by the current free card scheme, is very important. It's a fact that a number of people have tens of thousands of dollars in expenses related to their illness that are not reimbursed by the population. It is therefore gratifying that the Government has now finally made a proposal for a system of self-interest 2. This is something Stortinget has asked a number of times to be presented, but it has not been possible to get it before now. Neither the Bondevik I government nor the Stoltenberg government managed to do the job that we now see the result of. The Government shall be in favour of this. However, the system to be adopted today is not designed to allow one to capture expenditure on medicines on white prescriptions or municipal prostheses, which turns out to be a major problem for those concerned. Against this background, a majority, all except the government parties, supports a proposal that the Government, in cooperation with the user organisations and at the latest in the context of the 2004 State budget, submit a case on which municipal ownership can be incorporated into the roof 2 scheme and how. Today, we are adopting a very important system to help people with some very high disease costs. However, this is only the beginning of a scheme, which must in the long term also be extended to excesses in the municipalities and medicines on white prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1184	The central thing about the proposition we're dealing with today is the very introduction of a Roof 2 scheme, and I want to join those who have praised the Government for introducing the scheme. There has been a demand in the social committee for many years, and now we see the scheme coming into place. That's why it might not be so central to have to issue very much what the scheme should contain, and where the ceiling should be, because that will be something you can work on along the way and get better arrangements in relation to. But if you first look at the implementation of such a scheme, it is obvious that there are two challenges that will lie there. One challenge will be how comprehensive a roof 2 scheme, that is, what kind of peculiarities it should include. And the thing that strikes us in SV is that if you make a very targeted link between the roof 2 scheme and the fair share of basic services, at least it will meet well – that is, in the case of a proportion related to the usual medical services of general practitioners, also in the case of a specialist after referral, and also to dental treatment, where it is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, if you start to extend the scheme to a very large number of fields where it is a little more unclear whether the patient obviously needs these services, there will be a problem related to the costs of the scheme, and thus to keep the ceiling so low that it goes on for those with high costs. And that's at the intersection of these two considerations the government will have a challenge when you're going to work on the scheme. For the SV section, I would like to stress that for several years we have been concerned that a number of dental treatments have been so extensive and costly for patients that it has appeared as clearly unreasonable that they have had to cover everything themselves. An example of this is just rehabilitating and treatment for periodontitis, where expenditure may rise in tens of thousands of dollars. In the context of the State budget, we have also been concerned with dental regulation, for example. for children and young people, where we see that there may also be some significant excesses even if parts of the treatment are to be provided through county schemes. And it's clear that if the type of treatment that people can't avoid without having a major health impact should lead to a lack of resources for treatment, it will be very unfortunate. That is why we see it as important when the Government goes ahead with the Roof 2 scheme, that we look at the measures that cost a lot and are necessary, but that we are careful to include so many measures that we water down the targeted use of health crowns, which should be targeted at those areas where there is a greater need. But then you have to look at dental health, which is just a type of medical treatment that is necessary, often in line with other health treatments, and which in some cases can actually appear as central as the treatment of the patient's other health conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1193	The size has for several years called for a better self-share regime for the many chroniclers with very high health costs that do not come under today's free card scheme. For the Christian People's Party, it's important that you don't have to deal with heavy expenses as well as pain and problems in doing everyday life both physically and mentally. Today's credit card scheme is a good help for many. It includes excesses for medical care, psychological assistance, important medicinal products and special medical devices, as well as travel expenses, laboratory tests, radiological examinations and treatment. Many people reach the ceiling of NOK 1150 and don't pay a fraction for the rest of the year. It is worth noting that when the scheme was introduced in 1984, it was issued 130 000 to 140 000 free cards per. years. In 2001, the figure was 794,000 free cards. This means that many people who have a relatively normal consumption of healthcare are also covered by the screening scheme. The government has therefore tried to target the scheme in order to protect the major consumers of healthcare. A lot of people have mental problems. Many have musculoskeletal disorders. For these, physical treatment means an incredible amount. Many have high expenditures on physical therapy and stay at training institutions. A silky stay in warmer climates combined with training has given very many improved quality of life. Until today, this has led to large expenses for many. Some patients have even borrowed loans in order to participate in such activities. It may not be the case that those most in need of treatment have to pay for it all themselves. By introducing a new shielding roof of NOK 4 500, this will improve. This means that those who have expenses for physical treatment, training institutions or climate travel in addition to NOK 4 500 per year. years, they are refunded. The scheme also includes refundable dental treatment, with the exception of jaw orthopaedics and dental regulation. This is important because many users have dental problems due to the use of many and strong drugs. It is important to note that when excesses are lowered for dental health and stay in training institutions, it benefits all users, even though it means the most to those who have the most need. The Christian People's Party, like the other parties, is very pleased that this arrangement is now in place. We want to welcome it and evaluate it after a while. Only then should an assessment be made whether other excesses should be included in the scheme. Several have requested that white prescription medicinal products be included in the scheme. Those with high expenditures for this can now receive partial coverage for these expenditures through the social security system. Social security expenditure for this purpose was 170 million. 2001 kr. The Christian People's Party believes that today's system provides good protection – something that user organisations also agree with. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to a separate case for the financing and user payment schemes in the care of the elderly. In this context, ownership of municipal services will be discussed. There is every reason to rejoice that we have finally established a new and better protection measure. Disabled and chronically ill people have, on average, more than twice as high expenditure on health care as the general population. This is a good Christmas presage that a whole social committee supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1219	For several years, Stortinget has asked for a self-employment scheme 2. There is reason to commend the Government for presenting a case in which this principle is established, and for us to have a system that should gradually be made much better. In March 2002, a working group commissioned by the Government to investigate this matter was set up and they completed their work and presented their report in June 2002. So you see here that it's not all the world of time that is going to get into a good order. In a few months, the working group presented its proposal, and it is based on the fact that this proposition is now being promoted — it is based on the investigation by the working group. We have an existing free card scheme that has a self-share of NOK 1350. This roof 2 installation aims to protect the large consumer in other areas, including: chroniclers and disabled persons, who have high costs of their illness or suffering. The tax ceiling for equity participation 2 is proposed by the Ministry at NOK 4 500. There is disagreement in the working group on the size of the roof, and I will come back to that a little bit. One estimates that approx. 40,000 users per years may have such an expenditure that they will be affected by it and may benefit from self-employment 2. A majority of the Committee, in view of the fact that the scheme will now apply only to physiotherapy, reparable dental treatment with the exception of orthodontic orthopaedic surgery, residence at training establishments and treatment trips abroad, states that one expects municipal services, white prescription medicinal products as well as detailed medical devices and consumables, orthopaedic aids, hearing aids and chiropractic to be among the services that should now be assessed and included in this tax scheme. However, only the Central Party proposes that a person return to some of these matters already in the 2004 state budget, i.e. in the autumn of 2003. However, it is a majority who ask that one in the context of the 2004 State budget at least investigate this with municipal ownership and that it be included in the Roch 2 scheme. We believe that there should be several areas that were included in the scheme as soon as possible. There is some uncertainty about this with dental care, and I hope that the Minister of Health will discuss what will be covered here later this evening. We believe that the Roof 2 scheme should get a lower level now, so that you could get a credit card on the Roof 2 scheme faster than the Government proposes, especially because this scheme today contains what Stortinget asked for. The government proposes NOK 4500 as the size of the roof. We want the ceiling to be NOK 3000, especially considering that there are several things that go beyond the scheme, for which disabled and chronically ill people still have to pay in full. According to the Statistical Center's documentation for the FFO, most people have a cost of about. NOK 3000 per year for health and social services not covered by the current free card scheme. On the other hand, the disabled have an average cost of NOK 8 000. In addition, this group has a family income of only two thirds of the average family. This means that this Roof 2 scheme should be as low as possible, so that a person can really get a real refund for the costs that are now in the scheme. It is unreasonable for chronically ill people and disabled people to pay more in health expenditure than the average in the rest of the population, especially given their lower ability to pay on the basis of lower income levels. Finally, I take up the proposal that the Central Party is promoting in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1238	The representative has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1241	I am pleased to note that the Stortinget will today adopt a new protection scheme, opt-out 2, which could effectively limit the financial burden on disabled people, chroniclers and others who have a high consumption of healthcare. I thank you for the praise that has become the Minister of Health and the Government from all sides of this debate. The new scheme has been developed in close cooperation with user organisations. They shall have their share of the rose for this to become possible. It includes individual services where the self-payment is often at a high level. Today’s free card scheme applies to services with specialities on a hundred-card or three, while the self-payment for a comprehensive dental treatment, a physiotherapy treatment series and a stay at a training institution would normally amount to several thousand kroner in each case. Therefore, in the case of multiple services over a year, the total own-payment can be significant and self-shared under the new scheme could result in a multi-billion-dollar savings for some users. Reduction of the percentages of dental treatment and stay at rehabilitation centres is an important part of the overall roof 2 package. Although the decision of the Storting during the budgetary procedure last week will involve a slightly higher proportion of dental treatment compared to what the Government proposed, there remains a significant improvement that will benefit all patients with reciprocating dental treatment, not only those who have expenditure beyond the ceiling. Similarly, the proportion of a three-four-week stay at a training establishment will be reduced by NOK 600-800. In addition to this, as mentioned in the budget debate, I will speed up the investigation of a reimbursement scheme for the rehabilitation of dental kits as a result of the loss of teeth due to periodontitis. I will return to the implementation plan of the revised national budget. Municipal services have been provided for in the previous orders of several governments to investigate a Roof 2 scheme. Today, too, the Stortinget is invited to take a decision asking the Government, at the latest, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to promote the inclusion of municipal ownership. It has also been my starting point that municipal services are included in the screening scheme, but I have seen it as necessary to find a solution to this issue in a phase 2, after we have established the scheme. However, I would warn against believing that it would be easy to include municipal services in the Roof 2 scheme. Today, municipalities have the freedom to determine their own payments for their services and, as a rule, their own payments are classified according to the income of the user. It will represent significant challenges to find a solution to combine this with a flat, i.e. not income-rated, expenditure ceilings set by the government and administered by the social security system. In the first place, and as a basis for further investigation work, the Government will present its assessments of financial and user payment schemes in the care of the elderly, as announced in St.meld. No 31 for 2001–02, end of action plan for the care of the elderly. Both in this context and in the further follow-up work, the relationship between self-payment for municipal services and self-employment 2 will be addressed and possible solutions assessed. The majority of the Committee points to various services not included in the proposed Roof 2 scheme, such as medicinal products on white prescription, various consumables, orthopaedic aids, hearing aids and chiropractic practices. The majority request that these services be considered as part of the scheme. Let me mention that the working group and the ministry made a thorough assessment of all these services, and found that there was no basis for integrating them. I would like to stress that this position is shared by user organisations' representatives in the working group. In the case of chiropractors and manual therapists, the working group points out that in the follow-up to the ongoing pilot scheme for chiropractors and manual therapists, adjustments to the funding mechanism should be considered which could enable the service to be included in the roof 2 scheme. However, for medicinal products on white prescription, the situation is that patients will be able to have significant additional costs if the shielding is moved from the social security contribution scheme to roof 2. On hearing aids and orthopaedic aids, there is no excess. Price limits have been set for hearing aids which allow some users to have interpretations, but this is a question that needs to be resolved within the social welfare system itself. That being said, it will of course always be necessary to consider adjustments to improve the scheme. In particular, this will be necessary for the first time after the introduction of a new scheme, and there is uncertainty about several aspects of the roof 2 scheme. I can promise that I will follow closely the way the system works, whether it works as intended, and I will come back with proposals for adjustments if it should prove necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1258	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 252]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1274	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be five replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1283	The turnover of medicinal products in Norway in 2001 is estimated at DKK 12.7 billion. Nearly two thirds of the turnover is financed by the Community. There is therefore good reason to focus on the correct use of these funds. In the budget position for 2002, a majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Progress Party, expressed the following: ‘The majority are not satisfied with the fact that generic substitution has taken place to a lesser extent than is justified, and consider it beneficial to increase the level of substitution in order to increase the effectiveness of competition between pharmaceutical companies.The Committee will consider that the possibilities of substitution and the untapped potential present in the pharmacies industry will be removed in the long term in order to provide users with cheaper medicines.’ This case specifically addresses this through four instruments: setting market-based index prices for selected generic medicinal products simplification of reporting obligations when pharmacies switch to copying medicinal products requirements for documented medical reasons against reservation by the applicant for exchange of substitutions for after-sales discounts on medicinal products In general, there is no effective price competition between different providers of medicinal products. This is due, inter alia, to: that the patent protection of medicinal products normally lasts for 10 to 15 years. Patent protection is correct because companies have to cover the significant costs they have for research and development. Thus, patent protection serves the interests of society – new medicines are being developed. It is all the more important that the means of gaining competition when patent protection disappear are effective. One shall then enter a market where the original producer has built up loyalty over a long period of time. At the same time, the Norwegian pharmaceutical market is characterised by the fact that the doctor and patient have few financial incentives to choose the cheapest product — as long as the state pays the bill in general. Thus, the choice and use of medicines are not just a question between the doctor and the patient, but also a question for society. There are two important reasons for this: Proper use of medicinal products is an important public health issue, and proper use of medicinal products is an important economic issue. Today’s profit-sharing model has produced positive results, but the majority believe that the potential is not being exploited in a good enough way. Therefore, the government parties and the Socialist Left Party support the Government's proposal for an index price system. Then, for each exchange group, one will set up a price that is refunded by the public, regardless of which medicine within the group of pharmacies actually delivers to the customer. By establishing the index price as a weighted average within each exchange group, they will be a price-reducing effect in the system. In that case, pharmacies will essentially recommend the cheapest option for the patient. This will be the general rule. By tightening the requirement of when the doctor can make a reservation, the doctor’s attention to the problem will also increase. They will not have the task of having an overview at all times of which drug in the exchange group is the cheapest, but can, through their contact with the patient and by failing to reserve themselves for exchange, facilitate the pharmacies to sell the most competitive medicinal product. The cases in which there has been the most debate are when the patient or doctor makes a reservation. All lots, with the exception of the Advance Party and the Center Party, support the Government's proposal that in cases where the patient insists on using a more expensive preparation, the patient himself must pay the fee. This is a particular choice the patient takes in a situation where there is no medical reason not to say yes to a more reasonable product. In the cases reserved for exchange, it would not be right for the patient to pay the fee. In this case, it would be an extra feature for people who are not themselves responsible for their situation. It would also increase the risk that the patient would not have the medicine. The alternative, therefore, is that either the pharmacy or public health pay the allowance. The reason why pharmacies pay this fee is that the index price system should give each pharmacy an acceptable income and that one must look at the performance of this group of medicines as a whole. The second ratio is that this would enhance the attention to the fact that reservation should not be used as a general rule, but only in those cases where there is a medical justification. The Government Parties and the Socialist Left Party have supported the Government at this point in the setting. However, in the discussions we have had after the issue, we have come to the conclusion that when the system is put in place, it should be the public interest that pays this contribution. This is a small element of the scheme, and we will have the opportunity to come back to this in the context of the evaluation of the system in the revised national budget for 2004. This is provided by the proposal that the parties to the Government and the SV have distributed in the Chamber. From industry, it is argued that generic switching poses a health risk because the medicinal product has a different colour or shape and can therefore confuse the patient. I believe that this argument is given too much weight. First, in any case, it must be possible to use dose packs for this patient group to a greater extent. Secondly, in 2001, more than 300 changes in medicinal products were authorised on the Norwegian market, with about one third of them being authorised on the Norwegian market. 170 of these changes led to altered appearance, with 130 leading to hidden changes in composition. It shows that industry itself often changes the appearance of the medicinal product, without paying particular attention to this in these contexts. It is worth noting that three major actors control under 90 pst through ownership, partnership and chain agreements. of the market. In addition, when one knows that the integration between pharmacies and wholesalers makes the integrated chains service the retention of discounts at wholesale level, there is a clear need to ensure that the discount from the supplier is passed on to the customer. For this reason, the parties to the government and the Socialist Left support the proposal to ban anything other than simultaneous rebates. It is surprising that the other parties do not see that there is an obvious loophole in today's legislation that opens up so that one can make discounts afterwards and thus prevent customers from benefiting from the gain of competition. It is therefore appropriate that this rule applies not only to the medicines in the exchange group but to all medicinal products. Late discounts or bonuses make it impossible to have a good enough overview of the price picture. However, the requirement for simultaneous discounts could lead to even stronger competition between the different pharmaceutical suppliers and wholesalers, while providing authorities with a better basis for proportionate market intervention where this appears necessary. In other countries, there is a tradition that the doctor prints active substances on the prescription and that the pharmacist chooses a product. In Norway, we have a tradition that the doctor also determines the product. Fortunately, we have had an emerging debate on the relationship between the pharmaceutical industry and the doctors. It is necessary to continue this debate. I am therefore pleased that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, are involved in the proposal to ask the Government to develop a model which means that the candidate prints out the active substance on the prescription, and not as at present a particular medicinal product. Finally, in this debate, I cannot fail to comment on the behaviour of the Apotheker Association in this matter. This is an association that has good and regular contact with Stortinget, and which can constantly express its factual views. But it can almost seem as if they feel that getting their views out should automatically lead us to follow them. This is not the case, and I have been greatly provoked by the way they have worked in this matter, both through claims about the position of parties in relation to the work of the committee and not least in relation to the fear they caused to all their customers by threatening to terminate the blueprint agreement. This is an industry that, above all, may depend on trust both at the authorities and at the customers, so I hope that they will now carefully review the handling of this case and take a self-criticism on it. With this, I would like to address the minority proposals on which we are included in the vote, as well as the distributed proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the distributed proposal, the word ‘introduction’ has to be replaced by ‘introduction’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1340	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1343	There is a need to reduce the growth of public expenditure on medicinal products. The growth in drug expenditure has been on about 10 pst for many years. per 1 % years. It's not a strange phenomenon, but it's still worrying. Of course, increased demand and consumption have many reasons, such as: Population growth, an ageing population, increased availability of health services, several drugs with good effect, etc. Of course, medicines provide many people with better health, better quality of life and a longer life, and are therefore a very important part of the health care system. Both I and the Labour Party have called for measures to keep the growth of drug expenditure under control. That is why we believe that a necessary public price regulation of the market is necessary. One of the things that needs to be done is: avoid the unnecessary possibility of obtaining monopoly profits through the absence of competition in patent-protected medicinal products. One must also ensure that both patients and doctors have the necessary knowledge of the different treatment options such as the copy drugs, i.e. the generic medicinal products, represent. The pharmaceutical policy and regulation of the pharmaceutical market are complex. That is why I and the Workers' Party are very critical that major system changes are proposed through the government's presentation of the state budget. We believe this is unfortunate because it gives very short treatment time in Stortinget. Furthermore, the main principles and, in part, the details of this matter had to be laid down in the consideration of the financial position of the Financial Committee, which brings the Scientific Committee, in this case the Social Committee, into the decision-making process late and partly peripheral. This picture is amplified by the fact that the government's proposal meant, in part, demanding legislative changes, something that the Storting had only lasted a month to make. When the Government proposes a new system for selected copy preparations, i.e. generic medicinal products, by setting a so-called market-based index price, consider that the assessment of such a model should have included a broader review of the entire medicinal product area. The Workers' Party has also asked the Ministry to investigate the impact of other models, but it has not wanted to do so, on the grounds that a longer investigation work was needed to see if other models could provide savings. Yes, I can understand that, but it underlines the core of the matter, namely that the ministry is proposing a whole new model without ensuring that, for example, a further development of the current so-called profit-sharing model or other measures could have given rise to greater cost savings. In our comments, we have shown examples that could provide cost savings, for example. extension of the generic switching list, introduction of generic writing, etc. Based on experience from other countries, there is good reason to believe that this is effective. I also believe that one should have investigated the issue of introducing a maximum refund price that is a bit lower than the maximum price for each individual bladder prescription product. It could push the price down considerably. One of the serious effects of the index price system is imposed on pharmacies to sell medicinal products with losses if the doctor obtains a medicinal product with a price above the index price. This is not something we can adopt in a democratic country, which I see that the majority – as the rapporteur explained – is going to do today by the proposal they have put forward. The proposal is, in fact, identical to the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the proposal of the Centre Party, but it implies the prerequisite for the introduction of the Index Price System, which we are opposed to. With such a proposal, it is difficult to see what is actually left of the index price system. I must admit that the Ministry's proposal to ban anything other than simultaneous discounts, which are intended to ensure lower prices, is at best poorly documented. It might have the opposite effect. The negotiating power of the pharmacies and wholesalers towards the pharmaceutical industry may be significantly impaired. I think at least it would be wise to test out such a system by just making it applicable to the placing on the market of medicinal products included in the calculation of the index price. We have proposed this. I have to mention a relationship with. When introducing an index price, a completely new system, an offensive information strategy should have been implemented well in advance of its implementation, so that all stakeholders knew what it was and its practical impact. This, I think, is a major challenge for the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1364	The presentation of this case and the short period of time which the Committee has had led, in the opinion of the Advance Party, to the fact that the case bears the mark of being an urgent work which has not been able to give the matter the time and attention to be given. This is a very large and complicated conversion of Norwegian pharmaceutical policy, which should have been treated in a more serious way than is the case today. This case also clearly demonstrates the need for a full review of Norwegian pharmaceutical policy and administration, but in this context it is only necessary to note that the majority of the population, consisting of the government parties and the Socialist Left, would not have this. Therefore, it is not surprising that these batches are introducing the new scheme with an index price-based system for generic medicinal products. The recent debate in the media also shows with all clarity the problems that arise as a result of these changes. The Government Parties and the Socialist Left Party have set up a policy to ensure that pharmacies and patients are charged with greater costs and less freedom of choice, thus increasing uncertainty for patients. What has really been a debate in recent times is that in the pharmaceutical industry, traders can actually be forced to sell with loss. This resulted in a reaction in the pharmacy in which the Progress Party fully understands. It's clear that this government and the Socialist Left Party, in their eagerness to save state money, don't care what's going to happen to the decisions. What has been interesting, however, is that although the representative Ballo has gone high on the track about how sensible it is to introduce these changes, party leader Kristin Halvorsen also comes on the track and explains that there have to be some changes. On this basis, you have to ask yourself what is the correct version. But the representative, Mr Ballo, would like to know why the change of opinion has taken place after the matter has been dealt with in the committee. The party strongly opposes the introduction of an index price-based system in the case of generic medicinal products, as proposed by the Government. This system, in which a both pushes the state's expenditure on medicinal products on patients and forces pharmacies to sell with losses, as proposed by the proposal and the committee's setting up, is, in the view of the Progress Party, a major violation of both of these groups. In addition, the Progress Party fears that patients will experience greater uncertainty about whether or not they are taking the right drugs. In the opinion of the Advancement Party, the medications to be taken by the individual are a matter of trust between the doctor and the patient. It is important that you do not rock this relationship of trust. In addition, questions have to be asked about the way in which the Government wants to govern prices in this market. This looks like systems with a mindset that belongs to a different time and that no longer exists – in this way it is no wonder that SV supports the change. The Progress Party will vote against A in the proposal for a decision, but will vote in favour of all the proposals in the B vote, with the exception of Roman numerals II. In other words, the party seeking not to introduce the amendment to the Medicines Act and the Pharmacy Act proposed by the Government. In conclusion, I am very pleased to note that there is a majority in favour of the proposal which has been distributed today, most likely as a consequence of the intervention of the representative, Mr Halvorsen, in the matter, so that we can at least change some of the hopelessness of the majority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1381	The rapporteur has made a clear and transparent statement on the matter, so I am not going to repeat the legislative changes proposed. I would just like to start by stressing – since it is clear that the representative Nesvik has not got it – that the legislative proposal that exists supports us in the form that exists and without changes. The verbal proposals to be taken into consideration will be forwarded to the Stortinget later. So SV has no other position in this matter now than when we discussed it in the committee. It is clear that medicinal products are involved. Many people use medicines, and changes to the system affect many. At the same time, we see that the cost of medicines refunded by the prescription scheme is DKK 7 billion on an annual basis. In the years I have been on the Social Committee, a number of medicines have also been treated. Only in the setting associated with the budget are names such as Actos, Avandia, Singulair, Subutex, to mention someone. We've seen Remicade and Enbrel. To understand the attitudes of the social committee at different times, the common directory is needed. This explains how H2 antagonists work, the mechanism of an asthma medicine in combination with cortisone, the effect of two new type II diabetes medicines, and the receptors on which they work – almost at that level. What's quite obvious is that this doesn't have the members of the social committee sucked from their own chests. Nor is it surprising that these considerations are often re-found in writing by the pharmaceutical industry or the Apotheker Association. It should initially not be so much opposed, but it makes clear the enormous impact of the pharmaceutical industry in particular on Stortinget, and how we – also SV – have been influenced over many, many years so that we have been careful to make changes. It will be very easy to mobilise a resistance in the population to the changes that a new system represents, and in this way the weaknesses of the existing system will also be passed on. But it's not that it doesn't implement the changes proposed by the government, it doesn't have other consequences. Obviously, the costs we're talking about here have consequences, because there are areas where you can't cover the costs, and they have ring-fenced effects on the population that way. In addition, we see that a majority who are also involved in the Workers' Party is willing to introduce other far more far-reaching changes, such as the extension of the generic trading list. It means, in practice, that capsules and tablets, powder and spray, etc., are placed side by side, as in the form it says here, difficult to get hold of, but patients will react strongly if they discover it. An approach to avoiding this could be precisely the system that the Government has set up and that SV agrees with. I also record that the Workers' Party is calling for a reduction in the universal service obligations of pharmacists for generic medicines. This means that medicines you want from patients, with such a system, will not be available. We disagree. It is clear that patients who have used a medicinal product should be able to be sure that the pharmacy has it upon request. One of the most surprising things that I see is that both the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are willing to go in on, is an after-sales discount scheme from the wholesaler to the pharmacies. What does that mean in practice? This means that you operate with one type of price that you get refunded from the people's pension by blue prescription, and when the pharmacy has got its money refunded, the discount comes in later. For me, it's a system that closest to Ecocrim should look at. Then even in the form of proposals, one should argue for the continuation of such a system. Is it not quite clear, then, that this system needs to be reviewed and new measures put in place to prevent it? I record that both the Pharmacy Association and the pharmaceutical industry are concerned with a continuation of that system. It shouldn't surprise anyone. For this, a gain, through public expenditure and without benefiting the patient. The SV is concerned that the type of reduced expenditure that this system can generate is that of patients to serve, not the pharmaceutical industry. I understand very well that there is great resistance in the pharmaceutical industry to a system that will control their activities in a much more stringent way than today. But that there should be so many parties that are willing not only to go into those premises, but directly enter these premises into an attitude, surprises me. In any case, SV will support today’s setting, while we are very happy to have the first year set up a scheme to cover the additional costs that come, for medical reasons, when a special product is chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1396	In the 2002 State Budget, the Social Committee stated that the exchange between equivalent medicinal products was too low. The main reason was that it is profitable to exchange generically for both the state and the individual user. Why should a more expensive medicinal product be used when there are cheaper copies of exactly the same active substance, the same pharmaceutical form and the same strength? The Committee was also concerned that today’s legislation has unintended effects allowing the pharmaceutical wholesalers to hide discounts they receive from manufacturers. For the Christian People's Party, it's important that the discounts go on in the chain, so that whoever needs drugs does not pay more than necessary. For some diseases it is about medicines that are vital but very expensive. For this group of patients, the bladder prescription system will result in an excess of 40 pst. of the actual cost of the individual medicinal product — up to a maximum percentage per person. prescription of NOK 400 from 1 January next year. The owner’s share is included in self-proprietary share capital item 1, which remains unchanged at NOK 1350. If one is a minimum pensioner, one exemption from excesses on a blue prescription. The high level of use of the bladder prescription system, where public health is the main contributor, is good for patients, but has probably not stimulated market mechanisms to operate in large parts of the pharmaceutical market. The Christian People's Party supports today's introduction of an index-based reimbursement system for a selection of generically exchangeable medicinal products. The index price is the amount of people's money covered by a changeable medicinal product. The index price is paid to a pharmacy regardless of whether the drug actually delivers is cheaper or more expensive than the index price. If the preparation is cheaper, keep the pharmacy difference. This has rarely appeared in the debate. The focus has been on who will pay if the prescribed medicine costs more than the index price. The government parties and SV have today submitted a proposal saying that the Swedish Government Agency should pay the difference. The 2004 evaluation will provide answers as to whether this will be a permanent scheme. The Christian People's Party would stress that it is important for doctors to be required to justify any reservation for generic exchange in the individual patient's records. Today's prescription allows the doctor to lose the right to print prescriptions on behalf of the people. It is important that someone now accompanies such that the doctors do not abuse their right to make a reservation. If patients want more expensive medicines without medical justification, they should pay the difference themselves. The Christian People's Party also supports the prohibition of after-sales discounts. Discounts should be fixed at the time of conclusion of an agreement. It will ensure that the discounts granted by the producers are captured at the index prices and passed on to the final purchasers of the product. Today, pharmacists are obliged to send a notification to the doctors in the event of a single switch between generic medicinal products. The Christian People's Party understands that this can be difficult to manage. In the new system, pharmacies should only send a message to the doctors who specifically request it. However, I expect the pharmacies to have internal documentation of the medicines that have been exchanged. If we're going to succeed in the new system, we're going to depend on the users getting good information, and the doctors don't make a reservation without it being absolutely necessary. It is largely the doctors who make the choices on behalf of patients, and they therefore have a great responsibility. Many doctors have the tradition of using well-known brands and usually prescribe originals. Here they can learn a lot from colleagues abroad who only prescribe generic active substance. At the hearing of the Social Committee, the Medical Association was in favour of such an investigation. A large majority wants this. I look forward to a system that gives pharmacies strong incentives to sell the cheapest medicines. This comes first and foremost to the benefit of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1422	A lot has already been said in this case. I'm going to try to be relatively brief, but it's a large and complicated area that means a lot of money for the public. The turnover of medicinal products in 2001 is estimated to be close to DKK 13 billion, about two thirds of which are financed by the State. In the last few years, the growth in drug expenditure has increased by about 25%. 10 pst. per 1 % years, and that is worrying. More and more medicines are coming into our market, and that also means that by being able to choose between different types of medicines, a strong growth in volume is taking place. It is used as an argument in this case for pharmacies to maintain their performance. I'm a little skeptical about using that argument, at least in almost any context, because I think it's important maybe for the future to be something careful also to increase the volume too much. I think you have to try to sharpen on quality, and in that context be a little bit more sceptical about quantity. This matter is large and complicated, and it has had a very short processing time. The hearing period that the department gave in this case was less than a month, and we've had about the same time here in Stortinget to discuss it. We know that today's system of generic exchange has produced fairly good results. Following the introduction of the scheme on 1 March 2001, the market share of the cheapest generic copy preparations has doubled, from approximately 1 January 2001. 25 pst. for about 50 pst. It is positive when the generic medicinal products have the same effect and no side effect for the patient. It's calculated that it has given a saving effect to the population's security of about 150 million. in 2002. This is positive. However, we believe that part of the documentation on this matter is not good enough otherwise. This applies, for example: that current legislation has unintended effects throughout this range, including: this with hidden discounts comes in, and also with regard to how the profit model turns out in some contexts. When one then chooses to go directly to the index price system, we believe that several model choices should have been designed to see if we could arrive at a system that could last for a while and provide predictability for the entire medicinal product area. It's important, I think, if you're going to get a system that's satisfactory for all parties, and that ultimately ensures the patient, the medicinal product user, good and safe medicines and transparency in relation to what kind of medicinal products he's going to choose. And then I want to comment a little bit on the lack of information for both doctors and patients about this with a generic exchange. I think that more people would be involved in such an exchange if you had a greater security for what this really means. We believe that the economic impact of a change as proposed by the Government is highly uncertain for both patients and industry actors. That is why we are voting against the proposed changes to the pharmaceutical law. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party have said, with a little different reasons, that there is a need for a more thorough review of this whole administration, and we wanted that to happen. We then came into a minority relative to such a desire in dealing with the proposition, and so now we go against the amendment of the law as it exists here. We in the Center Party are willing to join and amend the Pharmacy Act only if the applicant, i.e. the doctor, prescribes active substances on the prescription. Only when the applicant so requests shall the pharmacist inform him that a generic change has been made. [[The President clubs.]] Then, President, I shall stop there and say that I hope at least that the proposal that the government parties and the SV have presented here today will mean that the pharmacies will not pay the difference on medicines, but that we will get a deal on it with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1439	In examining the state budget for the current year, a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, indicated that the profit-sharing model provides incentives for pharmacies to make generic exchanges. The same majority, however, expressed little satisfaction at the fact that generic exchanges have taken place to a lesser extent than is justified, and considered it beneficial to increase the volume of exchanges in order to increase the effectiveness of competition between pharmaceutical companies. In this respect, the Committee asked the Ministry to carry out a deeper analysis of the circumstances which appear to slow down the supply of more reasonable medicines to consumers. The proposal under consideration today, together with the proposal in the budget proposal, is a follow-up to these majority comments. The proposition is based on a research report from the BI School of Economics, together with a market analysis by the State Medicines Agency. The BI School of Commerce was mandated to look at key regulatory provisions to identify, where appropriate, circumstances that may have contributed to weakening price competition between generic and original medicinal products. Both reports showed that current regulation on the pharmaceutical market is insufficiently adapted to the new ownership of the pharmaceutical industry and that there is a basis for lower pharmaceutical prices in the event of changes in regulation. Today, wholesalers are free to determine the proportion of any rebates from the pharmaceutical manufacturers to be passed on to the pharmacies. Thus, wholesalers can also limit the proportion of discounts to be paid to final beneficiaries. This is not satisfactory because it undermines current price regulation where the principle of discounting or profit sharing between the distributor and the purchaser of medicinal products is central. The state currently regulates maximum prices into pharmacies and maximum prices out of pharmacies. BI points out that the reason for vertical integration between wholesalers and pharmacists has made it appropriate to replace the current regulation of the maximum purchase price into pharmacies with a regulation of the maximum purchase price to wholesalers. The BI further concludes that the profit-sharing model is out of play for vertically integrated actors. The BI School of Commerce presented five proposals for measures, including proposals to regulate the maximum purchase price for wholesalers. One of these proposals has been further developed by the Ministry in the proposal under consideration today. The proposal describes an index-based reimbursement system for generic medicinal products and proposes restrictions on how discounts between actors can be designed. The proposal shall establish an index price applicable to all medicinal products in each class of interchangeable medicinal products. The index price shall be based on a weighted average of the prices of the interchangeable medicinal products and shall be recalculated on a regular basis. Apotetes receive index prices, regardless of the cost of the medicinal product in the purchase process, while pharmacies today have to charge lower selling prices at lower purchase prices. Thus, the index price system will reward the pharmacies supplying the cheapest medicinal products in a much stronger way than is currently achieved by pharmacies using the profit-sharing model. This is expected to distort demand for the cheapest medicinal products and thus increase price competition, for the benefit of consumers and public interest. The proposed discount restrictions will ensure that real prices become visible to the authorities. This allows authorities to identify and intervene more quickly with actors circumventing maximum price regulation through different discount agreements. In addition, it will be easier for pharmacies to immediately see which suppliers are the cheapest at all times. I note that both the Competition Authority and the Consumer Council support the proposal to ban all discounts on the sale of medicinal products other than those at the same time. As the plan results in lower prices and the profit-sharing model does not apply under the index price system, the total pharmacies will have lower revenues in the short term. On the other hand, the pharmaceutical market is traditionally growing by between 10 and 15 pst. Every year, so that returns will rise rapidly again. I welcome the fact that the bulk of the gross domestic product in the course of next year's government budget was in favour of the proposal to set up the index price system. The system corrects a system failure in the market and contributes positively to the objective of minimum medicinal product prices. It is my opinion that the effect will be with the marginal adjustment of the scheme resulting from the representative Höie’s proposal presented here today. I will carry out an evaluation of the measure after a relatively short period of time. I propose to present an evaluation of the index price system, including the blueprint scheme, in the context of the revised national budget in 2004. At the same time, I will continuously consider any other structural measures in the field of medicinal products. The pharmaceutical market is large and represents a significant expenditure item for public health. Growth is traditionally high. This makes it all the more important to ensure that the funds allocated are used in the most rational way possible. Every penny too much here is one penny less to other high priority measures in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1466	I would like to stress, as I mentioned in my main post, that the Workers' Party believes that one has to search for lower costs or lower expenditure growth on medicines. In this way, both government parties, the Council of State and the Workers' Party agree. But we don't feel sure that the system that is now being introduced, a market-based index price system, provides lower pharmaceutical costs. That's why we wanted to move towards it, on the basis that we have now presented. I see the proposal that has been presented today from the government parties and SV, where one will not, however, oblige the pharmacies to sell with losses in cases where doctors have prescribed a medicinal product that is more expensive than the index price. On the basis of that proposal, I have to ask the Council of State: will this proposal not undermine both the intention of the index price and the estimated budgetary gain?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1473	As I said in my post, it is my opinion that the arrangement as proposed by the Government, with the marginal adjustment that will result from the proposal that the representative Höie has made here today, will mean that we will have an index price system that has a significant impact on savings. In the budget statement, the savings effect is estimated to be approximately the same. $93 million. kr. We will, on the part of the Ministry, now that the budget decision is available – it was in place last week – and the provision for regulations will be adopted through the Odelstingen process, issue proposals for regulations to take account of the savings potential foreseen by the Stortingen budget decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1480	It's interesting to hear that you assume that this change in who will cover the expenses if the doctor opposes a generic change is a marginal change. I think that's quite eye-catching. Then you actually wanted to make a very big case out of a marginal change, which you say is. What I want to talk about is the constant changes we have in the area of medicine. Now we have it in this case, with an index price based system. There are any changes in the SLV, the State Medicines Agency, which come to the attention of the Committee in a later case in the field of alternative medicine. You have also notified a review of the prescription and that piece. It is strange then that the government parties do not want to participate in a full review of the pharmaceutical policy and the administration that is taking place. Can the Minister of Health explain why he does not want this review when he shows again and again that there is a clear need for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1491	The representative Nesvik says that there's been a big deal here of a marginal change. Yeah, I actually agree with that. I have to say that the play that the Apothecary Association made last week, which meant that the users of these medicines would spend NOK 7.2 billion on the state, so that they would go and have them refunded to the Social Security Office, in relation to a case that has an impact on the marketing in the pharmacies of about 50 million. kr, was a disproportionate response, and it was an expression of making a major case of a marginal change. We, on the part of the Government, have contributed to the proposal that has been made here today, because it takes the brunt of some of the most important criticisms that have been raised against the proposal, without compromising the main features of the proposal. And it becomes all the more important with the scheme to put the search light on the doctor's responsibility not to make a reservation in vain, but only when there are medical reasons for it. With regard to the issue of changes in the field of medicines, I must say that a field that costs the public between 7 and 8 billion dollars a year, and where the growth year by year is in the order of 10 pst., one would have to expect that there is always a searchlight from the authorities on how to limit expenditure growth. So I can agree that it might be desirable to draw long lines in these change processes at regular intervals, and I would like to contribute to that. But I don't want to be in favour of peace in the area of medicines for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1500	Me and the Senterpartie will not be involved in peace in the pharmaceutical field, but we are concerned that the market-based index price scheme will give rise to the consequences that may create major problems for some pharmacies in particular. It has also been said in the proposition that pharmacies that have problems with this new system, perhaps especially pharmacies that are outside the chain, or, according to the statement in the proposition, some district pharmacy, should be assisted by support measures from the ministry. Now, with the proposal presented by the representative Bent Höie on behalf of the government parties and SV today, this with the difference compared to the price of medicines to the customer becomes more clear. It'll fix something. Nevertheless, there are some things here that are relatively unexplained and that may appear as difficulties for the pharmacies. Can the Minister of Health describe these aid schemes slightly more than what is proposed, as it is relatively unclear per year. Now what does this add up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1509	Let me first say to the question of the scheme as it is now, that with the change proposed by the government parties and SV, the pharmacies will be fully settled in cases where doctors make reservations. I believe that if one looks at the industry as a whole, the volume of sales with losses would be exactly matched by the volume of sales where the index price exceeded the actual price of the product, so that overall, the pharmacy would not have lost the scheme as it was designed in the proposition. However, the risk of disproportionate distribution effects to some pharmacies that have a large proportion of doctors who make a high reservation has been eliminated by the adjustment to which it is added. Let me say that I view the pharmacy as part of the healthcare system. It is important for the health authorities that the pharmacies function. Therefore, the health authorities have taken responsibility — and the Stortinget, the Government and the Ministry have taken responsibility — in relation to the industry’s framework conditions. This has been shown by the budget table, which has been adjusted in a positive direction for pharmacies in terms of the avant-garde. It is also clear from the framework conditions laid down in the new Pharmacy Act that the authorities have such an overall responsibility. And we're still going to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1516	I realized that the purpose of introducing a system of generic replacements was also to reduce the price of medicines, and that by not being able to provide a posteriori discount, we ensure that the price reduction benefits the customer. Then I see that the Labour Party has outlined alternative approaches in order to reduce the price. I would like to ask the Council of State: with regard to the introduction of the maximum reimbursement price for medicinal products on a blue prescription, where the State provides no more than a limit, what consequences will such a proposal have for consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1523	I think I'm going to refrain from the invitation to go in and do impact assessments of proposals made by minorities here in the hall or in the setting. I would just like to refer to the answers we have given by the Department to the Workers' Party on the questions raised during the budgetary procedure, which have been commented on as far as we have been able to do so, without starting major new investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1530	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1535	I might not have taken the floor, but I thought there was one thing missing in the debate, in connection with what Ballo said about the discount system. For everything I know, Ballo can be absolutely right, but I don't think so. BALLO presented one side of the discount problem — ban on other than simultaneous discounts — but he skipped the effect that such a system might have. For example, by doing this, almost all the negotiating power between pharmacies and wholesalers on the one hand and the pharmaceutical industry on the other. Thus, one actually is at risk of getting more expensive drugs instead of cheaper. I believe that the Labour Party – therefore, I had to ask for the floor now – has put forward proposals for a balanced system, one in which there is a ban on anything other than simultaneous discounts for medicinal products to enter the index price system. If you said yes to it, you could have seen in a realistic way how these two discount systems actually broke out in real life. Now one just in theory will be able to evaluate how this is. The point of discounts, like Ballo, is to stimulate lower drug spending, both for the public and, hopefully, also for patients, where they have a propensity. I don't think anyone here is sitting with any fascist on this question. Then I want to mention one thing that the Council of State took up in its article. It was that the Social Committee in its last year's budget position said that we were not satisfied with developments in terms of generic exchange. Yeah, that's it. But at least during the hearings in the committee, it was found that the trend in generic exchange had been very positive in the intervening year, and that the exchange might now be up against the expectations one could have of such a system. There can be no doubt that generic exchange is involved in pushing down the prices of medicinal products. That's why I'm very concerned, like everyone else in this room, that that system has to work, because there's one of the not so many ways you have to try to mitigate the costs of drugs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1547	My point in asking that question to the Minister of Health – I have full respect for his failure to answer it – is that if a maximum reimbursement price is introduced, as proposed by the Workers' Party in relation to the prescription scheme, there is a ceiling on what is refunded. And the one that then has to cover that extra cost, will of course just be the consumer. It must be the patient, if the pharmacies are to be returned to the cost of the medicinal product. And when you go so hard compared to a system that seeks to reduce prices, you also have to answer for the schemes that you are proposing. An extension of the generic trading list – what does that mean? This means opening up more preparations to be equalised, perhaps even without necessarily working exactly the same way. We had that discussion in the Social Committee some years ago. Then you can start to think about whether capsules and tablets that have the same amount of active substance, even if the product doesn't work exactly the same way, you have to think about whether a spray might have to be equal to a powder because the spray can be cheaper than the powder, if only the ingredient is the same. This means that when you attack a change that seeks to bring prices down, but at the same time even proposes a number of measures, you have to compare those changes against each other. The really good proposal made here by the Labour Party is the introduction of generic prescription. But it is also the most far-reaching proposal, which both SV and I also see the government parties go in for, precisely because in many ways it is a continuation of the system that you are now introducing, but which the Workers' Party itself opposes. The working party itself is opposed. Medicinal product subject to a generic prescription, only the substance contained in the preparation must be entered on the prescription without mentioning the name of the preparation. I believe that the Medical Products Industry Association could not have discovered that this proposal is in place, because it is a relatively dramatic proposal. But it's a sensible proposal, just to target the means over time and get the price down.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1556	Asmund Kristoffersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1559	In such debates as this, the level of precision may not be satisfactory from both the other and the other. So we have not made any proposals for any of the representatives that Mr Gunnar Ballo has now claimed twice. In fact, we have only thrown into our remarks ideas about matters that we believe should be assessed in a comprehensive and comprehensive pharmaceutical policy, as we have addressed in our own proposal, namely an assessment where one takes into account all aspects of pharmaceutical policy and then sees what its outcome is. We believe that such things as we have mentioned in the comments are important to be evaluated, and then we will see what effect – at least theoretically – that assessment can have. This we think has been important, and therefore we have not wanted to substantiate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1566	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 253]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1582	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 254]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1598	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Right, 5 minutes for each of the other groups and 5 minutes for the representative Simonsen. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who may draw as on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1607	I am pleased that the Committee on the Changes to the Training Act states that all children are given the same opportunity to participate in the activities organised by the school as part of primary school education, regardless of their parents’ financial background, and that the municipality cannot charge for educational material or other activities related to primary school education. This means that the ability of municipalities to make payments for costs related to camp school will be lost. Camp school stays are invaluable for schoolchildren, not least in getting to know nature, but also as a social factor for the class environment. The disagreement within the Committee is about whether municipalities should be obliged to provide all schoolchildren with primary school accommodation. The majority of the Committee believes that camp schooling should be a voluntary offer from the municipality to the students. At the same time, today's municipal economy is a warning; it cannot be that the camp school offer becomes dependent on the municipality's economy. The Workers' Party believes that camp school is so important that students should be secured by statutory law, and thus a duty for municipalities. In this way, we can ensure that the main elements of camp school are secured, i.e. salaries for education and travel grants. This demonstrates both the opinions of the hearing bodies and the strong commitment of, inter alia, the Commission. parents and organisations of interest. This bill was also promoted by the Labour Party in 1999. At that time only SV supported it. I find it somewhat strange that SV is not at this time, especially in relation to what is in their own principle programme for this ageing period: SV will ‘propose more funds for excursions and free camp schooling for at least one week during primary school’. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the principle of the use of a class box. The involvement of parents and voluntary efforts in school are important and shall not be restricted in any way. However, it is important that contributions to classroom funds should be truly voluntary and – as the Council points out in the proposal – anonymous. Gifts to schools raise difficult issues, such as social pressure, and there may be a need for protection against this. Especially in Oslo, we see examples of so-called associations of friends, where the intention is only to make a financial contribution to the operation of the school. This is a development that undermines the principle of free movement. The attitude today also takes care of advertising in school. Advertising constitutes a commercial purchasing press, and it is particularly important that the school is a free zone for such an influence. This question concerns in particular advertising in school books and in textbooks. I have noticed that, after an overall assessment, the Ministry does not consider it necessary to propose the regulation of advertising in school books, but that the government parties will reconsider this decision if the situation so requires. The minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, is of a different opinion. The Nyborg Committee concluded that there was a desire to legislate for a ban on advertising, and a Nordic survey showed that most Norwegian primary schools receive offers of advertising-funded free products, such as work books and textbooks. I see the Government's attitude as being that advertising in school is not a problem, even after such evidence. Then I think the government should launch a separate national survey of the offer of advertising in school books and other school material. This is not just about economics, but also about ethics and values. We should be able to see that funding for textbooks and school material is a public task, and we should also be able to see that school books and material represent considerable expenditure for students, especially in higher education. At a time when poor local economy and poor school budgets have become the norm, some schools may see advertising funding as a way out of the financial misery. In addition, when we become aware that schools have received and assess offers from commercial actors on the distribution of effects and advertising-funded refurbishment, these become all the more important issues. The disagreement is about reality: Is advertising in school a problem or not? The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party mean it. Therefore, we want to legislate against advertising in textbooks and teaching materials in primary and secondary education. In the end, I will be allowed to address the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted, and what we have promoted together with the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1633	Karita Bekkelem Orheim has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1636	What is now happening in relation to the Training Act is, above all, clarification, really nothing new. But that's an important clarification, because it's a clarification that primary education should be free of charge. There has been a special focus on camp schooling, but it is important to say that this paragraph applies much more than camp schooling, it concerns primary schooling as a whole. The majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party, have felt that it has also been important to say that camp schooling is not an obligation for municipalities to offer, but that when it is offered, it should be offered free of charge. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party has also agreed to earmark funds for camp schools. In addition, there have been some confusions since the proposition was presented, precisely because people are a bit in the mood for what parents and volunteers can do about school efforts that do not conflict with the free principle. It is not such that all that is not mentioned as explicitly permitted in the proposition is thus prohibited. It has also been quite important to refer to through the comments. The interest and involvement around the school shall be encouraged; it shall not be restricted in any way. We need to be aware that a large part of Norwegian school depends on voluntary efforts, not primarily in the economic field, but it can be good enough, it can be driving students to and from theater shows, there can be many small things that together make sure that school life goes around, and that's what it still has to be. Gifts shall continue to be permitted, precisely in order to improve cooperation between the school and the local business community, or the community as such. This has always been the case in Norwegian school, and so it should still be. One question, which was also raised by the representative of Bekkemel Orheim, is related to advertising. In particular, this has been a topic in relation to primary school, and the ministry does not find itself wanting to legislate this now. Not to legislate a ban now, I think it makes sense, simply because this is not a problem today, and it has no scope today. On the other hand, what one should discuss, if one is first concerned with the commercial pressure in school, is the pressure that comes through all other channels, for example. via ‘Jul at the top of the Moon’ and the products sold related to it, it may be via clothing brands and mobile phones, which you start early in primary school. What has also been mentioned has been different effects and gifts, such as: reflective tags with the logo of the local bookstore, timetables with the logo of local companies and perhaps also information material from companies. So it doesn't have anything to do with the commercial pressure you see, that some companies can get to give these kinds of gifts. Today, school management, parents and teachers are responsible for the fact that the kind of advertising that you don't want doesn't come into school either. That responsibility takes people in an incredibly good way, and that's why there's no problem either. By clarifying the free principle in the Training Act, there should also be no problem in the future, precisely because it is stated so clearly that primary education in Norway should be free of charge. We can't stand up so that in law we take away the school, the teachers and the students engagement around the school. That's why it's also important for us to clarify this. I would also like to mention, as a comment to the representative, Mr. Beckem between Orheim's posts, that the government has put in 50 million. kr in box grants for secondary school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1660	The Party of Progress aligns itself with the proposal of the Government of Ot.prp. No 94 for 2001-2002 which establishes the free principle in primary school. In times of pressure on local economy, it is also important that the principle be established through a separate paragraph of the Training Act. The emphasis has become clear in the legal text: ‘The Community may not require students or parents to cover expenditure related to primary education, such as expenditure on educational material, school-time transport, camper-school accommodation, excursions or other trips that are part of primary school training.’ In the case of clay schools in particular, there has been considerable confusion, including: on the right to demand payment. The 2003 Budget Agreement between the Advance Party and the Government Parties earmarked the State money for camp schools. In this case, it is stated that municipal ownership cannot be required beyond what is made available through earmarked funds or by any other means from the school owner. The suspension also concerns other matters, gifts, use of classrooms and advertising. The bill clarifying the principle of free does not prevent a school from receiving gifts, as the previous speaker pointed out. Nor should it be such a barrier or a prohibition. Nor does the party want to legislate for a right to a camp school stay. Activities other than the current clay school accommodation offer can also be useful and should be used, preferably through active choice from the class. Therefore, the Progress Party does not support proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. Let me also remind you of the principle solution of the Advance Party on financing: state school money, which follows the student to his own chosen school, and all the money far ahead. The party welcomes the establishment of so-called associations of friends around schools in order to provide support for each school in various ways. We also take a positive view of the establishment of class boxes if the parents want them to do so. Money and items provided through such classrooms must benefit all students. Of course, it should not be possible for a majority of parents to charge a minority to pay money to a classroom. For the Progress Party, it is important to stress that funds and equipment provided in such ways are not to be managed by the school owner or the school manager. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the activity related to Friendship and Class Case will contribute in a good way to a strong parental exposure. A strong parental exposure contributes to a good environment in the class and to an active and good environment for both pupils and parents in the class situation. We believe that other parties are overly problematic in the area of gifts and classrooms. Similarly, there is no danger that advertising may still be permitted in books or advertising on educational material. In primary school the extent is very modest. Nor does the Progress Party wish to prohibit legislation in this field, and therefore opposes proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. The Progress Party would like it to be possible for school management and class management, including, where appropriate, in cooperation with parents, to use books and material with advertising if this is desirable for the purposes of the learning process. We assume that advertising is positioned so that it does not remove the focus from schoolwork and from the subject matter. Here, too, I remember the principle solution of the Advance Party in the field of school management: we want independent and autonomous schools, where parents and students together with teachers, employees and owners make up the board, and where parents have a majority of boards. In an independent and self-governed school, it should be possible to use advertising to help ensure good learning material, if necessary. And then finally a little heart attack about advertising: it's little used. If you're worried about the advertising impact of the students, I think it's completely different areas where you have to address your concerns, than if you're modestly supplementing your learning material to do better in the school situation. The great pressure is probably beyond the school situation, at quite different times of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1680	It's an important matter we're dealing with, and it's an old SV case, namely that primary school should be free of self-interest. It's true, as the representative Ine Marie Eriksen says, that what we're doing is pretty much putting a little hole in the law. But it's an important hole we close. The free principle is the basic principle of the welfare community, that we have a common public school that is free, free of self-interest. This is also a matter that the Parental Committee for Primary School made a battle case during the action ‘Children are not going to be reprised!’, which they had in connection with the election campaign last year. So what we're doing now is meeting a demand from the parents as well. Well, the amount of props in the school is, we don't know exactly. A number of studies have been carried out to show that the proportions were slightly above 200 million. kr in primary school. Probably it was too low an estimate, probably there's been a bigger proportion in school. Most of this has gone to camp school, not to stay, but to travel expenses. After adopting this amendment, there will no longer be an opportunity to claim own-payments for camp school stays. They have to be free. It is true that in SV we do not follow the Workers' Party when it comes to the law that the camp school should be part of the mandatory training offer. We're now busy having a diverse school. There shall be a pedagogical and professional freedom to choose the models at the individual school they want. That's why it's wrong for us to legislate that camp school is exactly the traditional form that's right. There are many other ways to provide exciting training. And the individual school must then choose it according to the professional and pedagogical arrangements that they have. That's why we don't want to legislate. What we do is, as we have said in our program, to go in for earmarked funds for the kind of offer, where camp school is the most likely and most common, but where one can also choose other offers, other ways to organize this. So that's our answer: we want to underline the freedom of the school, we want to stress that this is the responsibility of the individual school itself. We also discuss in the setting class box. It is strange that we spend so much time and so many words on this, but it is important to stress that neither that kind of money should come from the parents' own payments, that there should be a pressure on parents to participate in and finance them. It's important that we have a parent exposure around the school, that parents engage in what's happening, but it's going to be wrong if this exposure is to be combined with self-payments and demands that they contribute. We have examples from schools where up to a quarter of the students couldn't attend camp because their parents didn't have the money to do, and we can't have it in Norwegian school, which is that a quarter of the students in a class can't participate in the activities that are part of the school's educational and professional arrangements. That's the hole we're now close to, and that's an important thing. So a little word at the end: Many students have responded. They've been running and collecting funds for the last six months, or maybe the last year, or they've been doing this for years, and then we're suddenly saying that now it's no longer allowed to use the means to go to camp. This is where the schools have to show flexibility. We don't have to say that they can't use them now. What we're saying with this bill change is that for the future it's not allowed to base the educational and professional activities of the school on parental pay and on collected funds. That's the principle we're now kneeling down, and it's an important principle within our welfare community. As I said, we are pleased that we are adopting this today, because this is also an old SV requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1701	Christian People's Party believes primary education should be free of charge. This is important in order to give equal opportunities to all children for primary education. Studies show that parents contribute to a substantial part of the educational material and activities of the school. It is therefore necessary to clarify the free principle of primary education in the Training Act. I am pleased that the Government has broad political support for such clarification. There will always be grey zones in the case of financial parental contributions to primary school. The clarifications we are making today are an attempt to clarify some of the grey zones. In the Christian People's Party, however, we believe that we can be in danger of making rigid rules, which prevent good solutions for students and parental exposure. In many places the problems associated with these grey areas are well solved by the individual school, in good cooperation between school management, teachers, students and parents. It is solved in a solidarity and non-stigmatizing way, and it improves students' experience and motivation for new learning. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee stresses that the legal text should not prevent voluntary efforts by the parents. It shall continue to be possible to contribute to the performance, flea markets and transport of events. Nor is it a ban on classrooms or gifts to the schools. When the Christian People's Party supports a clarification of the free principle in primary school, this does not imply a desire to limit the school's opportunities to cultural experiences or to take advantage of learning opportunities in the community. Among other things, through the public funds of the cultural school system, more students have to be given the opportunity to experience cultural activities and expressions in school everyday life. The free principle in primary school makes advertising in textbooks unnecessary. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that primary school should not be an arena for marketing and commercialisation. We therefore very much disagree with the Progress Party which, in its comments, opens up the use of advertising-funded or sponsored books and teaching materials in primary school. We believe it is important that the school gives students a conscious attitude to advertising and helps students to reveal the commercial interests behind advertising. We need a clear school against the commercialisation of the child's reproductive environment. The Christian People's Party shares here the views of the Nyborg Committee, which proposed to establish guidelines for sponsorship and advertising in the school where responsibility and control functions are clearly defined. The Nyborg Committee also looked at this in a context where the focus is on the overall growth environment of children, and the school is part of this. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the Sem Declaration states that the Cooperative Government will maintain a restrictive line for advertising aimed at children, and that it is particularly important that the school does not become an arena for marketing and commercialisation. We therefore have clear expectations for the Government about such rules when they arrive at Stortinget with the follow-up of the Nyborg Committee. Finally, I would like to say that today's clarification of the free principle means that excesses for travel, diet and lodging at camp school fall away. In addition, the Christian People's Party has been involved in maintaining the earmarked grant for the camp schools in the state budget, which means that the state grant covers the teaching expenses of the camp school. We do not see the need today to legislate on the offer of camp school accommodation. The management of the school must decide how to achieve the objectives of the curriculum. But if they choose to use camp school, they'll be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1714	The foundation is an important meeting place and the shared facilities for children and young people of school age. The foundation shall be for all, without regard to the family’s financial situation. However, if it is to work fully, all parts of the training must be free of charge. For pupils or parents who have to pay for part of the teaching, this can easily separate the pupils who cannot afford to participate in all the activities. Free basic education for all has led to the fact that the local economy is good enough to cover the daily teaching and also the provision of e.g. clay pottery. Municipalities are not obliged to provide students with clay schooling, but part of the teaching obligation can be used for clay schooling. As a former teacher, I've had a lot of classes in clay school, and my experience is that clay schooling is very positive. It's positive for the social environment in the class, it's a good way for the teacher to get to know the students in a slightly different way than in the everyday educational situation, and it's also an important arena to give the students the opportunity to get to know and learn how to use nature. The center party therefore believes that clay schooling should be part of the teaching, but we will not go as far as legalizing clay schooling. It must be up to the individual school to choose the best fit for the school, whether it is a clay ball or other provision that provides students with some of the same training as a clay ball. In the case of gifts and the use of a class box, the Centre Party shall be included in the plural notes. We mean that there should be no ban on gifts or using a class box. There may be measures where parental and parental activities and interventions can be positive for the school. But for us, it is important to stress that such measures should not be necessary for the day-to-day operation of the school. Together with the Workers' Party and the SV, the Centre Party has a comment that highlights that the school should be a free zone for commercial influence. We believe that advertising in textbooks and other teaching materials is unacceptable. The center party believes it is so important to prevent commercial influence in the basic school that we will legislate against advertising in textbooks and teaching material. It's a proposal we're working with the Workers' Party and SV about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1727	The current case concerns a change in the Training Act which clarifies that primary public education should be free of charge, i.e.: tax financed. The bill is a follow-up to Stortingen’s decision in the autumn of 2001, where the Stortinget asked the Government to submit proposals for the amendment of the Training Act so that the free principle in primary school would become a reality. The existing provisions of the Training Act also state that primary public schools are free of charge. However, on the basis of the legal process, it has been assumed that the municipalities have had limited access to charge for travel, diet and lodging expenses related to a truly voluntary camp school. All other expenditure on primary education shall be borne by the municipalities, even under the applicable law. The bill implies that the access that municipalities have so far had to demand a proportion of the students for camp school stays will fall away. Municipalities are not obliged to provide accommodation for primary school, but if they do, this offer should be free of charge for the students as a whole. And in the 2003 state budget, it is about. Ninety million. for camp school stays and training, inter alia. to compensate for the costs incurred by municipalities. The legislative proposal does not regulate any activities organised by the school but which are not part of primary school education, i.e. activities outside the scope of the Training Act. The proposal also does not prevent schools, such as under current law, from still receiving different kinds of gifts from superiors, associations of friends or others, or the use of classrooms by schools. The assumption is that gifts should be based on real volunteering, and that the municipality and the individual school ensure that the boss does not feel pressured to contribute financially and that no counter-performance is required. These provisions may result in individual cases which may be problematic or difficult to deal with. But it's hard to avoid. On the one hand, primary school should be free, but on the other hand, it is important not to kill or strangle a very positive commitment and cooperation between school and home and between school and community, a cooperation that in many schools only becomes more, and so far has been quite unproblematic. I trust that schools and school owners will be able to exercise good judgment in this area, especially now that the Department, after the Stortinget has dealt with the matter, can issue clarifying guidelines and guidance based on the clarification that the Stortinget is now making in the law. I am also pleased with the flexibility and common sense that have been underlined and demonstrated here in the debate by the members of the Committee, including among others. Chairman of the Committee. In terms of advertising at school, it is not really a main theme of the proposal. And let me say that I think it's important that primary school doesn't become an arena for marketing and commercialization. Nevertheless, I do not think it is possible that the school will be completely free of such influence, cf. inter alia: the increasing use of the Internet and other sources of education, which are not specifically produced for schools, including, for example: printed media. To my knowledge, there is currently no funding for advertising of importance in primary school. I know, among other things. not to finance textbooks in primary schools today. This is probably due, inter alia, to: school owners and schools themselves take a significant responsibility for the quality of education. They're responsible for that. And most adult people, I think, don't want extensive advertising funding for learning materials. However, I am prepared to follow developments in the school carefully in this area, and as has been said earlier in the debate, and as stated in the proposition, the government will come back to an overall assessment of the issue of child advertising in connection with the handling of the Nyborg committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1757	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall determine in Ot.prp. No 94 for 2001-2002, which we are now discussing, does not consider it necessary to propose any regulation of advertising in textbooks. In the comments on the case, the government parties say that they do not know that primary school teaching material is funded for advertising purposes. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party, Left and Right say that they agree with the ministry that it is not necessary to propose any regulation of advertising in educational matters. The government parties also say that they will be able to change their position if the situation so requires. I have some questions for the Council of State. The Nyborg Committee, which has been involved in monitoring schools in the Nordic region, shows that advertising in school books and textbooks and advertising as sponsorship is a phenomenon in several Norwegian schools. Since this is not enough, what is it that the department wants to change its position? And won't it be a good idea if the department initiates a survey to investigate the scope of advertising in school, whether it exists, to what extent and whether there is a problem in Norwegian school today? Will the ministry follow this up and do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1766	We will, as we have expressed, of course follow the situation. In this respect, it would of course be easier to identify the exact situation if it were the department or state that carried out the quality control and the approval of the books. But that's not the case. During the Bondevik I government, responsibility for quality assurance was transferred to the school owner, and I am familiar with the fact that no initiative was taken under the previous government to change it. We may have to do it in the future, but it's the school owner who's responsible for it. School owners mean municipalities and county municipalities in Norway. Those who run municipalities and county municipalities are actually politicians who come from the same parties that we ourselves come from. I have confidence that they're doing just as well on these questions as we do here in the hall. And I think that's a significant reason why this doesn't have a very large amount. When the Nyborg Committee mentions this as a phenomenon in several schools, my tip is that there is a slightly more widespread phenomenon in high school than it is in primary school. On the other hand, I think it is much more important to protect children in primary school from extensive advertising and commercialisation than, if necessary, high school students. But as I said, we're not aware that this has any significance. This does not mean that children are not exposed to advertising. They are exposed to advertising and influence outside the school, and they are exposed to advertising and other forms of influence at school. But then it's often related to things other than textbooks. It's the Internet and it's printed media used in school. There may be something related to community, reflexes, rulers, and I will allow myself to mention one more thing, the sports movement, which is often in close cooperation with the school, and where we know that there is quite extensive advertising and sponsorship, which also affects the children who go to school. I find it unnatural to ban a problem that is not relevant. It is by no means natural to prohibit it in the Training Act. If necessary, the Marketing Act had to do so. And it would be hard to prohibit it in anything other than textbooks that you can control. It's hard to ban on the Internet. I trust that the school owner will judge this with the same sound judgment as we do, and then we will assess it in connection with the treatment of the Nyborg Committee's position, and if there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1779	I'm going back to the intersection of camp schools and classrooms. The legal text is clear that it is the municipalities that cannot demand payment from either students or parents. State councils, I would say, are pleased to say that she is very positive about the use of class crates. Even collection opponents and committee leader Rolf Reikvam from SV are now concerned that the money collected with diligence and effort for future camp school stays must actually be used for it. I hope that the Council of State can be clear that if a class were to choose to travel further to one of the 60 camp schools than the earmarked funds for, it would have to be accessible to it, an access which is actually within the framework of sound, good judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1788	With regard to the funds collected, perhaps over several years, without any idea that this legal provision would come, I believe that we need to show the sound judgement that the committee leader here expressed earlier in the debate. You have to be able to show some flexibility, and that not all of that is to be in vain because the size has "found" a rule of law that you could not be familiar with. We also need to be aware that there are activities associated with the school that are very positive, which I think it is unthinkable that we should be able to insist that everyone should carry out, or that we could simply say that it should cover the municipalities. Let me give you an example. Quite a number of students travel to Auschwitz by white buses. It's a very positive measure, but it's clearly expensive. And it's clear that there's hardly anything we can ask every school to do. It's an example of something I don't think anyone in this room should be forbidden to do either. We have to show a healthy judgment and flexibility. I think we should help to alleviate the turmoil that has been around this. It shall contribute through guidelines and guidance that we can now follow up with after its adoption. The important thing for me is that schools can't demand anything to comply with laws and regulations, that you can't force anyone, that it should be voluntary, that it should preferably be anonymous, that you should not discriminate between children and students, that you should not be able to demand counter-performance in the form of advertising or anything else. There are important criteria and principles, and there are criteria that schools and school owners need to enforce and exercise a judgement around them, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1799	What we're really dealing with is a matter of principle. So it boils down to some fancy things about class box! It's a little bit dangerous because the principle's going to be gone for us. The basic principle and what we are adopting today is that it should not be possible to collect excesses in school. We're saying that primary school is free of charge. That means that no one should be able to come and ask their parents for anything because if the class is going to a camp school. That's the principle. It's going to be a little – I'm sorry, President – nonsense that we're sitting and spending a lot of time on class boxes and a lot of these things. We adopt the principle. We have confidence in the parents and the schools, that they are properly enforcing this, and then they find the good pedagogical arrangements, so that we can get the best possible school. Then I have a question to the Council of State. It's about fractions, and how big they are. It's true that the majority of the parties added 90 million. kr in the budget. But there weren't 90 new, earmarked millions. That was $30 million. kr that was there earlier, that goes to teacher's salaries, and then it was 60 million. kr to cover the prostheses. What we have received feedback about is that the trades in camp school have been more than 60 million. kr. And I want to ask the Council of State if she has information to suggest that 60 million. Does the self-payment that parents have paid so far cover? If they don't, we're doing something wrong, and we're not doing what we're going to do in relation to the municipalities and in relation to the schools. The feedback we get is that 60 million. kr is too small to cover the excesses that have been there, which we are now going to cover, and then it can go beyond the camp schools and in addition to good pedagogical arrangements. I sincerely hope that it does not, but that we will give the money to cover the excesses that have been demanded to have a camp-school stay for as many students as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1810	It is true, as the representative of Rikvam here said, that approx. 60 million. SEK of the 90 million. kr has been applied as a compensation for the amendment of the law currently in force. We have no knowledge that it is not enough to cover the excesses that have been there in the past, linked to the students who have gone to camp school. As far as I remember, it was the Stoltenberg government that started an investigation of the extent of the excess. It was used, among other things: ECON to If you convert it to today's dollars, you're going to have $60 million. to cover the accumulators of the students travelling in camp school. We have no other information than that. So you can ask yourself, is the amount of other honours in school large? And how big is it, to the extent that you're going to call it props? I guess we don't have exact numbers on it. What might tell you is that if we look at the minimum legal standard in Norwegian school, something has to be defined on the basis of discretion, because it's verbally established. For example, judgement must be exercised on the concept of ‘adapted training’. So to the numerical minimum standards. According to the department, the average level of expenditure in Norwegian school is approximately. 70 pst. above the minimum numerical standard. There's only a small number of municipalities down to the minimum. As has been said in another case, we will, for the sake of order, exercise a separate oversight over them. It may not be bad school there, but we have said that we will have a special supervision over them to see if, after all, this low resource use — not at least, but, after all, lower than the large majority — also provides irresponsible schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1819	Parents throughout the country are fighting in several areas today to keep schooling for their children. The situation in many places is that schools are laid down, it is cut in teaching positions and material purchases are reduced or stopped. In the view of the Workers' Party, this is mainly due to the Government's transfers to the municipalities, which means that our municipalities and municipal politicians must cut their budgets, including schools. But that's not the theme now. However, this has led worried parents in some cases to set up to remedy the economy. I think it is understandable from the parents' point of view, but it is a little suspiciously linked to the discussion about the free principle. This is a contribution that goes far beyond what we have so far seen as class funds on a voluntary basis, and in some places it has resulted in organised regular payment of parental contributions, which are to go to educational activities, both for operation and for material purposes. My question is this: does the Council share the view of the majority of the Committee that this is an unfortunate development which could undermine the principle of free movement? What advice will the Council of State give to schools that are offered organized parental payments for ordinary educational purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1828	I don't know that there are a lot of schools where it's about making ordinary self-payment in order to run the school. There is one case in Nittedal, which is quite well known, where such a trial was started, and I am familiar with the trial concluded. That's the only case I know of. I can't guarantee – and nobody in this room can – that there won't be parents who want more out of school than they get, or that there's bad school even if you have a lot of money. Such guarantees can never be given. What we know is that on average Norwegian municipalities are in spending use in the school approx. 70 pst. above what they must, according to the numerical minimum of the law. No one's under it. 20–30 municipalities are quite low. That's what I said in my last line. We want to have a separate supervision of these schools and municipalities to see if it also leads to irresponsible schooling. But we can't say for sure about that, because it turns out that you can get quite good results with low resource use, and you can get poor results with high resource use. So it has to be examined in more detail before we can say anything safely. I do not know that there is any large amount of organized payment. Neither can you prevent anyone from trying to speculate on rules, but that kind of desire on the part of parents can come up even if the school offers more than minimum. The representative asked what my advice would be. My advice to the school will be to follow laws and regulations. I believe that that proposition and the treatment the Storting is currently doing is quite clear, and that we can further clarify it by means of guidelines. Then a judgement must be exercised, but most people will be able to do so, based on the debate, the proposition and the setting that now exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1837	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 254]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1854	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 255]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1870	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1879	Since there is a unanimous vote by the Committee, I shall be brief. A large majority in this House have previously decided that the organisation of energy-use and production conversion work should be grouped together in one institution. This has led to the relocation of activities and management from NVE and energy plants to Enova. The funds of the Energy Fund shall be used here in accordance with the statutes laid down by the Ministry. Enova was established as a State undertaking under the law of 30 August 1991. 71 on State enterprises. Section 4 of the State Entrepreneurship Act follows that the Administrative and Public Administration Act does not apply to state enterprises. However, it appears from the preparatory work for that provision that if a State undertaking is empowered to take individual decisions or to adopt rules, those laws will nevertheless apply to that part of the activity. The Ministry proposes the introduction of a new fifth paragraph of Section 4-4 of the Energy Act which states that Chapters IV, V and VI of the Administration Act do not apply when the administrator of the Energy Fund takes individual decisions on the allocation of funds from the Fund on behalf of the State. The proposal will enable Enova to manage effectively the funds of the Energy Fund, in line with Stortinget's intentions. The Ministry has carried out a consultation process on the occasion of the case and the Committee is familiar with the views of the hearing bodies on the legislative proposal. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the SV and the Central Party, underlines the aim of the Grand Duchy and the Ministry not to build up a large bureaucracy around Enova, but to use market-oriented instruments instead. The unanimous vote of the Committee is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1898	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 255]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1912	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e1919	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend broadcasting regulations to allow for shorter advertising breaks in feature films, while maintaining the current regime of advertising in interruptions lasting at least 20 minutes.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend broadcasting regulations in order to allow advertising interruptions in religious programmes/life-vision channels.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: «The Government asks the repeal of the Broadcasting Regulation §3-3 to allow advertising spots to be opened on Friday, Easter Day, Pentecost 1st and Christmas 1st.» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate a probationary system with political publicity on local television in the municipal and county elections in 2003.’» Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: «The Government asks the Government to amend Section 4-9 of the Broadcasting Regulation so that films with normal sexual activity can be shown without wired on Norwegian cable networks.» Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Broadcasting Act so that the obligation to communicate also covers wireless distribution.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess open accounts in the NRK in order to improve the basis of the Storting as an active owner to ensure its operation and to set the broadcasting fee at the appropriate level.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the United Kingdom with a report on the experience of the use of legislation and regulations for EPGs in the United Kingdom and to assess the appropriateness of the corresponding legislation and regulations in Norway.’ Proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Broadcasting Act so that it is not permitted to interrupt feature films or documentaries with advertising.’ Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Telecommunication and Broadcasting Act with a view to the clean-up of responsibilities in order to keep content and distribution separate.’ Proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the Competition Act and other laws regulating the media area maintain and maintain the development of the Stortinget at all times.’ All proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2012	The President has understood that the Socialist Left is opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2084	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2109	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2131	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2220	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2230	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2237	In the course of the debate, Mr Heggem, on behalf of the Central Party, presented the following proposals: ‘The Government asks for an assessment of the future organisation of State Forest SF, SIVA SF, Statnett SF and ENOVA SF to enable these companies to continue to work on condition that the contents of the State Enterprise Act § 4 and Sections 51 and 53 become applicable.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2411	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2424	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2438	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2507	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2520	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2534	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2614	The Labour Party has notified that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2726	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2736	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2743	During the debate, Mr Andersen, on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2847	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2858	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2899	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2909	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e2973	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3077	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3126	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3190	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3200	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3207	In the course of the debate, Mr Glötvold, on behalf of the Central Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to cover expenditure on home and medical services on a white prescription in accordance with detailed rules to include this in the Roch 2 scheme. The same applies to medical devices and consumables, orthopaedic aids and chiropractic. This must be provided as soon as possible and at the latest within the State budget in the autumn of 2003.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3213	This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3320	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3330	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3341	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3348	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2004 to come back with an evaluation of the index price system, including the blueprint scheme.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the pharmacies receive full compensation from the social security system when implementing the index price system, in cases where the doctor reserves the exchange, but that this question is re-assessed in the evaluation of the index price system.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will propose that there be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3439	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3452	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3462	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3492	B, with I to IV, will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3531	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3541	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3548	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Karita Bekkemellem Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals on the prohibition of advertising in textbooks and teaching materials in primary and secondary education.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3603	The President will then vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New §2-16 is replaced by the following:The Community has a duty to provide students with at least one primary school leave. Camp school education shall be free of charge, within a frame-hour according to the details of the department. Municipalities decide for themselves how to use hours in excess of the minimum number of hours provided under §2-16.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3642	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3652	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3687	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3697	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3739	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16-lower.ana.ud1873e3749	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
