ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e28	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Jan Sahl, Inger S. Enger and May Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The requested alternate of Oslo, Ola Elvestuen, has taken the seat. From the representative Torbjørn Andersen an application for welfare leave is made from 6 March to 22 March. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Arne Austenå, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e65	Arne Austenå is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e70	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e75	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e80	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected President of today’s meeting. The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e85	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Per Sandberg, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, and probably large parts of the Norwegian population, I am delighted to propose a scrapping of the opera project in Bjørvika.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e90	As the Norwegian population is not present, it is considered not to be said. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e96	On behalf of Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal to remove the import protection for potatoes as part of increasing the supply of quality potatoes to Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e101	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e104	On behalf of John I. Alvheim, Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to ask the Government to investigate the effects of introducing reduced VAT on medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e109	These proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e132	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e148	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. I know that the government parties are now working on a plan to combat poverty in Prosperity Norway. Many people are struggling with a level of income far below what is needed to be a regular participant. Now there are quite a number of people who experience this on the body just in these days. There are people at reintroduction who are affected by the regulatory changes that have been made, but who are also affected by the fact that one has not managed to put in place a computer system in Aetat that is such that they get the money they would actually have. This means that some people get debt collection notices and are in a very unsafe situation. Many people have to fuck their family to borrow money both here and there. Many feel very uncertain and feel just the poverty that Bondevik has said he wants to eliminate, on the body. Is it the case that the Government is now going to add to a crisis plan that, first of all, allows for the advance of what is actually required in relation to the non-return money? And secondly, will the government go in and cover any collection fees that the government has charged to some of those who have the least to travel with here in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e157	I ask you to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e160	Firstly, it is true that the Government is working on a plan for further action to combat poverty. The co-operation administration introduced measures already in the adopted budget of 250 million. kr more than the Stoltenberg government had proposed, but we will continue with a plan for further action. It is true, as the SV parliamentary leader points out, that the situation in the Aetat and the introduction of a new regulatory framework for the provision of services have created significant problems for several people. This is partly due to the fact that the introduction of 14 days of late payments resulted in shifts in payments, which has led to some users experiencing liquidity problems, as Kristin Halvorsen pointed out. On the one hand, the problem of delays at Aetat due to the introduction of new legislation and the conversion to a new computer system, which was also the subject of the SV parliamentary leader. For this reason, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has now asked Aetat to intensify the work on information, in particular on filling out the notification card. The notification card system and the rules for re-routing and re-routing benefits shall be reviewed in the light of the experience gained by Aetat. The government has assumed that this work will also require additional appropriations in order to remedy the difficult situation facing Aetat and, not least, users of Aetat. We will come back to that in the context of the revised national budget. When it comes to the question of possible advance shooting and collection fees, I get to deal with the Minister of Labour and Administration who is directing him, but I can promise the representative Kristin Halvorsen that the Government also takes a serious look at the problems that users of return services have encountered because of the situation in Aetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e169	I must say, unfortunately, that I am not sure that the government understands the seriousness of the situation and how expensive it is to be poor. This is not a matter that you can wait with to the revised national budget, as people are sitting with the debt collection agencies on the stairs today. This isn't a case where you can handle people who might have a few dollars in the bank, as far as many other groups are concerned. These are people who can't pay their own expenses now. I think it's a disrespectful way to treat people who can't afford it. I think this is the government's test of understanding what it's like to live on a minimum of existence in one of the richest countries in the world. Is it really the case that the government of Bondevik will not take responsibility for the fact that those who now have no money to pay their bills because of mistakes from the state do not have the money to do so, cannot have the amount amputated by the state, for example. Does the social services contact them and ask them to pay what people actually deserve, so that the situation for the individual is resolved? These are situations that cause people to lie awake at night and not be able to complete the rest of their lives. These will be dissatisfied if nothing is done by the Government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e174	As I said, the government looks seriously at this, I think we actually understand the seriousness. We've discussed it, and I didn't mean to say that we should wait to do anything about the revised national budget. What I tried to say, and I think I also said that, was that the follow-up must come into the revised national budget, as usual. However, it is clear that urgent action may be needed due to an emergency situation encountered by recipients of re-entry benefits. We have discussed that, we shall discuss that further with a view to rapid action, and, as I said, I promise to take it further up with the Minister of Labour and Administration as the responsible Council of State in connection with Aetat. We are aware that many people who already have difficulties have come up with a further difficult situation. We take the poverty problems seriously. That is why we have proposed further measures in addition to what the previous government proposed, which is why we are working on further measures in a new action plan, and we look forward to cooperation with, among others. SV to get speed in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e179	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e182	I hear that the Prime Minister and the Government have discussed this, and also that the Government and the Prime Minister have an action plan on the steps, but the situation for these people is much more serious than that. There have already been two months of this year, and there are some people who already have it very difficult, who have not actually received their payments yet. The second relationship here is that very many of the people who have come up in this situation have actually not been notified of this before the transformation came. Now there are two proposals in the Storting to be considered, but that does not mean that we have to wait for these proposals to be dealt with before we can come up with measures. So my appeal and my question to the Prime Minister is, what can the Prime Minister now do immediately to remedy the situation in which these people have come into being?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e188	I replied to it in my first reply to the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, namely that the Minister of Labour and Administration has already contacted Aetat on these problems, including those relating to information, notification cards, rules on recruitment fees, which have to be reviewed. But in addition, there have been recordings from Stortinget today at the representative Kristin Halvorsen. They have I promised to take up with the Council of State as possible further action with a view to rapid action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e193	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e196	This case has shown a rather eye-catching lack of the procedures with which Aetat meets this reform, and so you can lose the payment only because you cross the error in a difficult form. The Labour Party has addressed this matter both in the interpellation that comes Friday and through proposals in Stortinget. The government's answer has been that they've cut 30 million. kr in the budget for Aetat. It has exacerbated the problems of introducing this reform, and it has exacerbated the problems faced by the establishment, which now sees considerable failure in relation to its employees, with the problems it brings. The government has said it will return with a further 15 million. kr. The government's response to these major challenges is to cut 15 million. kr insteadfor 30 mill. Do you really want to delete this item? Doesn't the government have a more offensive answer than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e203	There has been a downward adjustment of the resources of Aetat in the context of a longer-term improved labour market situation, in which the Stortinget has been involved. Recipients of reinsurance benefits have now come up in an acutely difficult situation. The Government has been set to take serious action. Of course, funding in the revised national budget is not the only solution; it can and should be done more before that. The government has begun with this, as I have illustrated, and we would also like to take further initiatives, as we have received constructive input from the SV parliamentary leader here. I would also like to refer to the interpellation that Schjött-Pedersen himself mentioned, where one gets closer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e208	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e211	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Much is good in Norwegian health care, but unfortunately much still works poorly. They're patient cows, they're waiting lists, they're corridor Asians, and now we're getting the message that more hospitals are cutting in psychiatry because the budgets are too tight. This is why the Stortinge increased the number of patients from last year to this year — up to 90,000 more treated patients. This is not followed up by the Government. In a letter to health businesses, the government is adding up to zero growth in the number of patients treated, which means that there is less health care than the size of the population. The government's apology is partly that the Workers' Party spent 200 million. in the field of health protection, in order to reduce the pressure on hospitals, and to show, on the one hand, that there has been a higher growth in the number of patients last year than foreseen and that it is to be continued, and that additional money will be added to it in the revised national budget. None of the excuses hold. The main point is that we should increase treatment capacity. The government adds up to zero increments, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e220	The government is committed to strengthening the treatment capacity of our hospitals. More people need to get treatment faster. Fortunately, at the end of the year it was also a significant decrease, compared to the previous one, in both waiting and waiting times. Unfortunately, the nurse's strike that has now been going on and, hopefully, is coming to an end has temporarily increased some of these problems again. As the Minister of Health said in the Stortinget on 23 January: due to the uncertainty about the hospitals' economy in the transition from one regime to another, namely from being a county side to being a state-owned, we will have a review of the situation in the revised national budget. It is already clear, and I can inform you that the Government will propose significant additional appropriations. As Stoltenberg was also involved, there has been a strong increase in activity between 2000 and 2001. 4,5 pst., against the original assumption of Stoltenberg's own government approx. 2 pst. This means that treatment capacity is now significantly higher. As the Minister of Health said in Stortinget in answer to a question from the representative of Alvheim, we will ensure that at least the record-high level of activity we are currently at, which means that far more is being addressed than foreseen, is maintained. We will review this and discuss it with the parties in the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget, including how much new funding can be put in. It should be clear that already the level at which we are now going to be able to make a significant contribution, and we will also consider whether it is possible to make further contributions. There is no excuse for us what the Workers' Party did in the budgetary procedure last autumn. But it's a little striking that the Workers' Party that is now very concerned about increasing the allocation, and that's actually also the Government, were the ones who proposed a cut in the current appropriations last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e229	It is excellent that there is a commitment to bring money into the revised national budget to continue the level of activity from last year. But the point is that it's too bad, because the Storting has added up to a growth in many tens of thousands of treated patients because there's a need for it. There are waiting lists, cows and corridor Asiates, and there is a need not least to follow up the psychiatry campaign. And then, even though there's been good growth last year, there's no excuse to step down the ambition level this year. It's almost like saying that because Tore Tønne did an excellent job as a health minister and treated more patients than intended, Dagfinn Højbräten can take it easy. It is a health policy that I will not recommend. This has happened before. Then the Labour Party government has come with money both to continue high growth the previous year and to ensure further growth in the current year. That ambition obviously does not have the Bondevik government, because it has sent a letter to the health care companies saying straight out: zero growth in the number of patients treated. That is what health companies have been informed about, while the Bondevik government is thinking and assessing until the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e234	The President will allow himself to submit the observation that it is hardly reassuring to have healthcare ministers treat patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e237	I agree. Even so excellent both Tore Tønne and Dagfinn Højbrätten are, it is the hospitals and not those who treat them. We are pleased that the treatment capacity has increased sharply. We like to involve the Labour Party and other parties in what this will require of new counting. We invite Stortinget to cooperate on this. The companies had to have a steering signal before New Year's, I think the representative Stoltenberg is fully aware of his own government experience. We also had to stick to the budgets that existed, and the strong growth that exists. So we're not going to step down. Health Minister Dagfinn, the High Commissioner and the Government are not taking this easy, we are going to introduce significant resource increases. As far as psychiatry is concerned, hospitals do not have the opportunity to step down self-financed measures because of earmarked resources, and this is now addressed by health businesses. The psychiatry must be effectively strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e248	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e252	The Prime Minister has previously promised in this Chamber to follow up on what is clear wishes from the Storting. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 it says: ‘This majority finds that the proposed production growth from 1 to 2 pst. is set too low...» It's from 2001 to 2002. And then what does the government write in letters to health companies on December 28th last year: ‘It shall be managed in order not to increase the average activity of patient treatment beyond the level established during 2001.’ In other words, the government makes the governance guide the health business of the country. Instead of following the majority’s demand to have an increase – 1 to 2 pst. is too low – they provide guidance on not increasing patient treatment, punctuating the wishes of the majority of the population, and punctuating what the Norwegian people would like, namely more hospital treatment. How does the Prime Minister explain this relationship with the Norwegian people, that he fails to follow a clear directive from the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e271	Now I've explained it. We agreed that 1-2 pst. growth beyond the 2 pst. which then lay at the bottom, probably would be too low. Now it turns out that the growth has been 4.5 pst. instead of plus 2 pst. We would like to review these figures with both the Advance Party, the Workers' Party and other parties which, like the Government, are committed to strengthening the processing capacity. We invite you to cooperate on this when we come back with significant additional appropriations in the revised national budget. And then we can also discuss these numbers and what there is room for further escalation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e278	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e281	Firstly, I perceive the Prime Minister's response to Jens Stoltenberg in the case of psychiatry, so this is an area where the Prime Minister guarantees significant growth in any case. Secondly, I have a question about the whole hospital economy. Signals from the Government have been given to the division of the underbalance in county municipalities between county municipalities and health enterprises according to the proportion of the total expenditure of the specialist health service. This means, therefore, that health businesses have a significant deficit, and the Government proposes that they take part in the accumulated deficit. If what the Government has signalled is implemented in conjunction with the level of activity that the Government has put on in its signals to health businesses, the overall activity will decline. Will the Government consider another way to ensure that health businesses do not now have to endure deficits far into the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e290	Yeah, we'll go into that and evaluate it. And I can also inform you that many questions – including these – regarding the transition from county to state-owned hospitals will be reviewed in the revised national budget. There are also arrangements for investments in the hospital sector. In the case of psychiatry – where SV has an affordable commitment, and where I also dare to say that both the previous government I led and the government that I am now running have it, and I personally have it too – are the stepping-up funds in the psychiatry plan, to which Stortinget has given its support, ear-marked and will go to escalating both in municipalities and health companies. It is not possible to cut off self-financed measures and replace them with escalators. Health undertakings must now be closely followed up by the Ministry in order to ensure that this is achieved. This is done through reporting and dialogue. We are now updating the status of the escalating plan, and will return to the Storting with it in budgetary terms, probably in the budget for the autumn. The goals are set, the government is obliged to follow them up and we intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e301	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e304	I feel that much of the background to the government's so-called management note is a lack of resources for the health care system. The party added more money to hospital treatment in this year's state budget, but unfortunately it did not receive a majority. Now the Prime Minister says that this is a government note, an instruction to health companies that it should be a zero growth. But then the prime minister says at the same time that in psychiatry you have no opportunity to dampen anything, there should be real governance and strengthening. How can health firms view this note as a sound management note for how to dispose of it in the future? And isn't it too late to add extra money to the healthcare companies in the revised national budget, which is not being dealt with here in the house until June? In other words, healthcare businesses will use half of 2002 before having a financial clarification and before receiving any signals that will invalidate the governance note that now says zero growth in health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e311	Firstly, I have to repeat that there has been a strong growth in the treatment capacity of our hospitals – fortunately. And there has been such a strong growth that it has gone far beyond what several governments have foreseen and laid down. The government has said that we want to add funds. It is natural to do so through the revised national budget. But we've gone out and said it publicly, so that health companies and hospitals too are aware that it will come. In the case of psychiatry in particular, I have to repeat that the Storting's adopted escalation plan is earmarked grants. Hospitals do not have the opportunity to cut off self-financed measures in psychiatry and replace them with escalators, as the effectiveness of the escalation plan will not be as it should be. As you know, it was also a premise that the escalation was somewhat more cautious in the early years of the eight, to increase by, among other things. because you have to get enough staff into the system. This acts as a follow-up to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e320	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e323	I can't quite drop this, because the Prime Minister, to whom I ask a question, has obviously totally misunderstood this whole system! Hospitals and health businesses do not base their planning for the activity in 2002 on newspaper reports that there may be some appropriations in the revised national budget but on a governance guide. They have been instructed by their owner at the beginning of the year on the starting point of the activity in relation to the treatment of patients, they have received the appropriations, and they have been told that there should be no increase in activity compared to last year. That there was an increase from last year to last year, fine things, but the basis is what happened last year. And the question that health care businesses are asking is, are we going to plan an increase or are we not going to? And there is the direction from the Government – despite the fact that the Storting has said the opposite – that you should not have an increase. Will the Government withdraw this document and notify the plan for an increase in the activity of health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e330	What the government has to do with it is the budget. On that basis, we have sent out this steering document. The representative Alvheim asked in Stortinget on 23 January if the Minister of Health could guarantee that a minimum of one could maintain the high level of activity in 2001. The Minister of Health replied with confirmation. And then I think we can go into a dialogue about this between government and greatness, to what extent you find room for further growth beyond the strong growth that has already taken place. The government has to deal with this on the basis of budgets and the health minister has notified the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e336	The ratio is also now wrong. The Government shall follow the majority of the requirements of the Storting and the majority has said that the proposed production growth from last year to this year is 1-2 pst. was set too low. Then the government has to figure out how much money is needed to increase the activity according to the imposed Stortinget. It is in the revised version that the necessary crowns to ensure the increase in activity can be put in place. Now, in reality, the government has already left behind following up on the need to have an increase in activity. This government's purpose of hospitals is not to treat more patients than last year, not even to treat about the same number. But the most important thing is not to treat more patients! What kind of human vision is that behind when the most important thing for the Government is not treating more sick people than you did last year, instead of treating everyone who needs it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e346	I think the representative Hagen should be a little careful with the big words and by involving humanity in this issue. Maybe I'll ask you to give it up. This government has a human vision based on respect for the individual and respect for the fact that as many as possible will receive the fastest possible treatment in our hospitals. The situation is thus undergoing clear improvement. Unfortunately, it has been put back somewhat because of the seven-week nurse's strike. This will require significant settlements. Of course we're counting on that. We're going to want to inform the Storting about that. The processing capacity has been greatly increased. We're happy about that. The Minister of Health said in response to questions from the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in Stortinget that we should ensure that this capacity is maintained. We would like to enter into a dialogue with Stortinget about any further capacity increase. But I think you might want to be a little bit careful about questioning people's human vision because of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e353	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e356	It still seems that the Prime Minister has not fully understood what this is all about. It is about the Stortinge telling the Government that the new, large hospital reform is to be implemented so that more patients are treated this year than last year. So the government sends a letter to the hospital companies and says, "It's not going to be treated more patients this year than last year." This shows that many more patients were treated last year, and therefore there is no need to increase the number of patients treated this year. It's a very bad reason, as we're trying to find out, and it's in conflict with what the Great Government has decided to do. It's nothing new that we're in that kind of situation. We were in exactly the same situation in the spring of 2000. There was also a substantial increase in activity in 1999, and the then Labour Party government provided both extra money to finance the increase in 1999 and extra money in 2000 to achieve the projected growth of 2pst. So we've been up to this before, and then the sitting governments have provided the necessary money to get the patient treatment to grow. That's not what the government is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e363	I have understood very well what the representative Stoltenberg and others have said, and I have said that we are willing to go into it. I would also like to involve the representative Stoltenberg in the economic consequences, so that the Workers' Party is aware of that – those who are otherwise concerned with economic governance and efficiency improvement, not least because of this reform. On the other hand, what I find a little more difficult to understand is that the Workers' Party is going so high on the ground in this matter – the party that has distinguished itself by cutting down on the current allocation last autumn – if they were then convinced that so much more money was needed. We'll see through that. It's history. But it's kind of striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e370	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e373	SV will be concerned that those to be treated in the hospital sector must receive treatment and those to be given priority must receive prompt treatment. That is our starting point for the appropriations to be allocated to the hospital sector. But – and that’s a significant but – what we get reports of, is that a number of conditions that could otherwise have been taken care of by the municipal health service cannot be dealt with due to poor municipal economy. It is described that there are pre-treated patients at the hospitals who could have been discharged to hospital if they had had a place, it is described that patients could have been taken care of by the home-based care if they had a place, and that is a description of unoccupied positions under the permanent care system where they could have taken more responsibility in the municipalities if they were in place. However, the consequences now are that a number of patients are being treated at a high level of care. That means you don't solve the problems by just granting more to hospitals unilaterally. Therefore, it is important for SV to get an answer as to whether the Government is willing to make an effort outside the municipalities to ensure that the treatment is done at the most appropriate level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e381	Yes, we are. I think that the representative of Ballo is quite right in saying that this is not only a question of hospital appropriations, although it is important – those appropriations have been dramatically increased in recent years – but it is also a question of what municipalities can do, i.e. in the primary health service, and it is also a question of what one can do in the so-called half-way line service, i.e. between the primary health service, for which the municipalities are responsible, and the specialist health service, for which the State is now responsible. With this kind of service, we think, among other things. in hospitals, which may be a hospital relief in some cases. We're positive to go through this. First of all, we are positive about the type of services that lie between primary and specialist health services. In this context, we also consider whether responsibility for health transport should be transferred from public funding to hospital enterprises, in order to ensure a good use of resources. We are reviewing all aspects of the funding of the specialist healthcare service, and what the representative of Ballo asked about – what municipalities can also manage to get money for – is a constructive input and an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e388	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e391	I would like to make a small comment on the previous question. In this debate, I think it is easy to overlook the fact that in previous years growth has been financed by the county councils. This is the first year we're running and arguing in the Storting and in the Government the way we're doing, and so the state acquisition that's going to be so much better leads to zero growth in hospitals. But I also have a question about a completely different theme for the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Agriculture has abolished the residence requirement for a property in Lillesand. The municipality has been tried out, the County Agriculture Board has been tried out, and previous decisions in the Ministry of Agriculture have been set aside. It is clear from the media that the seller has bids of 2 million. kr from a person who wishes to settle on the property. That's an acceptable price for most of us. But he can get $9.8 million. kr by selling the dwelling as a leisure property. This raises several issues, such as the consideration of municipal autonomy, the possibility of ensuring that residents are able to enter the housing market in attractive residential areas, and not least whether the Government provides for different treatment for residents and those who use a house as a holiday home. What is the Government's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e404	This is a matter which has been dealt with in the Ministry of Agriculture, as far as I know, as an appeal. I have not had the opportunity to go into all the details of the matter, although I am aware of the concerns expressed by the representative, Mr. Enoxsen, who mentions it. I ask for an understanding that, as Prime Minister from the Chair of the Stortinge, I can be difficult to deal with in a case with a number of legal aspects. But I will bring the matter back to the Minister of Agriculture who knows both the representative and the undersigned well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e412	I understand that the Prime Minister will not go into the proceedings. But this is actually an important principleal question, so in principle that there was a fairly broad reference in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, presented by the previous Bondevik government. I can recommend reading page 123 in the message, and to make it extra simple: it is enough to read the second column, where it appears that the very consideration of the settlement must be given to. This Communication also states that the rules must be based on the municipality’s own assessment of the situation of residence. This was repeated during committee proceedings, when the majority of the committee said that attention must be paid to the fact that each municipality retains the possibility of requesting a regulation which invalidates the freedom of concession for all or part of the municipality. So a majority decision was taken in Stortinget, which establishes municipal autonomy in this area, just to prevent us from developing attractive areas so that we get holiday homes instead of permanent residents. Therefore, there must be a basis for asking: Is the Government following up the decision of the Great Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e419	After all, the decision to cancel a subscription has a government obligation to follow up. There's no doubt about it. And as you know, there is also a very important difference between comments and decisions. I am convinced that, when dealing with this matter, the Minister of Agriculture has not wanted to break a decision on a large scale, and that is, of course, the possibility of exemption in such cases. I agree with the main principles; the representative, Mr Enoksen, and I were together on the big message he referred to. It was also the current Minister of Agriculture, so I think he has it clear in his memory when dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e426	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e429	Sick if the Prime Minister does not want to answer the direct appeal, he must be able to say something in principle about the importance of the obligation to live, not least in the southern municipalities, where the aim of the obligation to live is to create all-year homes and avoid the price pressure that makes it impossible for all-year-olds and local residents to buy property, which is then also taken over as purely holiday resorts. The Prime Minister must be able to take a principle view of that. In this case, it is quite special that the price has just been used to justify exemption from the obligation to live, by not being paid enough if it is a dwelling! But the goal of living is that we should not get a price drive in those municipalities where you have attractive leisure spots. The question arises as to the fundamental point of view of the case, the precedent of such a case in relation to the obligation to live in other southern municipalities, and the obligation to live as a phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e436	I agree with Mr Arnstad on the importance of living. We don't want communities that evolve more or less into ghost cities in winter. We want them to be carried up by people who mainly live there year-round, i.e. in all-year-old homes. Nor do we want to contribute to a price drive based on the practice being established in this area. That is also the policy of this government. So it is known, as the representative Arnstad probably knows, that there is a dispensation in the law. I cannot go into the details of the matter and say why it has been used in this case – I ask for an understanding of that – but the main principles that the representative Arnstad suggested share with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e443	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e446	I have a question for the Prime Minister: a broad majority in the United Kingdom has agreed that Norway is contributing with the crew and equipment of Operation Enduring Freedom. Among our contributions in Afghanistan, Norwegian elite soldiers are well-trained for winter, snow and mountains, and marine hunters. After the last days of fighting in Afghanistan, the Norwegian press has focused on the possible dangers to which our soldiers are exposed. What does the Government do to ensure that the families of Norwegian elite soldiers in Afghanistan receive both the necessary information and follow-up if anything happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e453	I can assure the representative Nybakk that the government is very concerned. We know that the Minister of Defence is also personally concerned about what we can do to ensure that the families and relatives of Norwegian soldiers who are in Afghanistan are best informed at all times and followed up. This has a setup for the ministry. It is well possible that it can be improved, but at least I can assure the representative Nybakk that this is a consideration and an commitment that we fully share with her.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e460	As the Prime Minister knows, part of the reorganisation of the Norwegian defence and the international fight against terrorism also means that Norwegian forces will increasingly participate in this type of international operation and not only in peacekeeping forces. I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister will ensure that we have a more permanent readiness, a network at their disposal for the families and relatives of these soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e467	We agree with the intentions expressed by Mr Nybakk. I would like to take up with the Ministry of Defence if such a readiness can be further improved, but the Government has exactly the same view that the Workers' Party's defence-political spokesmen express, namely that there should be a readiness for proper information for the relatives of Norwegian soldiers involved in international operations. I think it is quite right that the representative Nybakk also stated that this is not just a matter of Afghanistan; Norway is generally in favour of participating in international operations, and there may be new cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e472	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e476	We're going to leave the prime minister a little rest. I would like to ask a question to the Minister of State. The Progress Party has recently promoted a number of proposals in the UK on asylum policy, refugee policy and integration policy. This is nothing new from the Progress Party. The policy of the Progress Party in this area is well known. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of State if she agrees with the Prime Minister, who, while travelling in Sweden, has in a way warned the Swedish authorities against a major debate around the Fadime killing in Sweden, because it would give disproportionate publicity about the Progress Party in Norway – according to Aftonbladet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e483	Now I understand that the Prime Minister believes he has not spoken that way. But the Progress Party itself also explains its last progress with the ongoing debate. As an observation, it is clear that a party that has meant strong things in asylum and immigration policy may serve on a debate of the kind we have had for some time now. I don't think we should be afraid to take debates, I think transparency in these issues is quite important. But we also need to be aware that debates are doing something in our society, debates are sometimes creating more fear, they are creating consequences. And when I look at the pile of letters that I get – both those who are signed and those who are not signed – it is clear that sometimes debates go into legitimizing views, even if you don't want to, which can create difficult situations for people who are here and who have legitimate requirements for protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e488	I do not interpret this differently than the fact that the Minister of State agrees with the Prime Minister's statements to the newspaper Afton that the far-right forces in Norway are now moving, that is, the Progress Party. Now I would like to remind the Council of State that, even in the last few weeks, she has made a number of proposals for action in terms of tightening up, proposals that are in line with the policy of the Progress Party – it remains, of course, to see whether we can implement something. But I have to say that I find it a little strange if this is the way that the conclusion of the opinion polls by the Progress Party should set the agenda for the government's policy and debate in relation to some issues in Norway. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State in relation to a proposal by Aslam Ashan that has now emerged during the last weekend – the Labour Party has also signalled support for that proposal. The Progress Party promoted the same proposal three years ago and was called racists for it. Does the Council of State also wish to demand that the imams in Norway learn Norwegian and acquire knowledge of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e495	I've never called the Progress Party the right extreme. I have also said that among the letters I have received, there are also letters that respond to my own statements in a way that I feel is unreasonable in relation to what I have said, in such a way that you attach extreme right-wing radical views to me – if that is what you call it in that context. I think we have to take it as a precautionary sign: there are people who overreact to a debate. As regards the question of imams, there has been a working group of the former Ministry of Church and Education that has produced a report such as: is in the process of setting different types of requirements for supervisors in congregations in general. In the follow-up to that work, we will also assess whether we should have specific requirements for Norwegian training. Among other things, we have examined how we should deal with labour immigration in the case of imams, we have also looked at how we should follow up this report, and we are prepared to find possible new demands, but we are aware that such a requirement is likely to require a change in today's law on religion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e504	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e507	I have a question for the Prime Minister. In the first round today, it was proved that the government did not fully know what it did when it was going to fight poverty and cut in Aetat. I have a question about another heart issue that the Government has had, namely improving capacity and quality in public transport – yes, the Christian People's Party has even programmed a price reduction of 25 pst. on the railway. The Sem Declaration states that both the investment grant should be increased and that students and students should be given cheaper public transport, and in the next round all of us should have cheaper public transport. But after the election, public transport has become more expensive, students have lost their discount schemes, and the Railway Agency comes out with notice that they have to put down train routes between the big cities. Is it so that the government's policy is to put down so many lines that it is possible to implement the Christian People's Party's programme by 25 pst. price reduction on the little that's left?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e516	The answer to that question is no. We want to make it clear, and the Minister of Transport has already said that it is not appropriate for the Government to put down the long-distance trains between the largest cities. The Government will not agree to this, even though I have seen the comments that have come from the Railway Agency. As far as public transport is concerned, we began a certain escalation in the revised budget we submitted to the budget of the Stoltenberg government last autumn. We admit that also because of many other important purposes we would give priority to, we did not find room to make such a strong increase as we would have liked for the first year. As far as I remember, I guess we added 65 million. kr extra for public transport in the largest cities – especially Oslo and Bergen. We have also announced that we will deliver a big message on public transport to explain the plans and draw the Stortinget into a debate on the plans for the further increase in public transport. According to the Sem Declaration, we have a goal of increasing the investment by SEK 1.5 to 2 billion over the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e523	I thank you for the answer, but I note that the Prime Minister has achieved a fairly high drop in both his own promises and not least in relation to the budgets required to comply with the Sem Declaration, which says that public transport spending should be increased by DKK 1.5 to 2 billion. In order to recover from the year's budget, next year's budget will have to amount to approx. NOK 2.4 billion in investments in the railway to link this with each other. Is it the case that the Government has deliberately stated that there should be such a struggle at the end of this period, or should it be the same as it was in the previous four-year period, that a plan was adopted, made some great promises, and then forgot the whole matter, left the plan just there, and allowed each budget to speak for itself? We have now received the answer from the Railway Agency, that the last thing is going to result in decommissioning, simply because of safety reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e528	We do not intend to forget this matter. For the purposes of the Cooperative Government, public transport is an important area, both for the benefit of passengers and for the sake of the environment. This must, of course, be aligned with the financial framework. In general, the budgetary situation ahead of the 2003 budget, which the Government is now going to take to Halvorsbøle and to have a first discussion until the weekend, is not easy, because several of the revenue reductions, i.e. tax reliefs, and also several of the expenditure increases decided by the Stortinget, only have a long impact in 2002 so that the total bill for this will come in 2003. In fact, there are larger such extra calculations for 2003 than the increased real yield from the petroleum fund, which is the rule of action for its withdrawals. It says a little bit about the budgetary challenges we're facing. Within these, we will seek to prioritise public transport in 2003, but there may be even better spaces in 2004 and 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e533	There will be follow-up questions – Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e536	Sweden has adopted a railway plan to invest 50 pst each year. more on the railway than they do on the road. If the Norwegian level of investment was to be at Swedish level annually compared to the population, we would have to double what is now planned in the National Transport Plan. I am pleased that the Railway Agency has been so sunny, but I get worried when I hear what the Prime Minister answers. I would like to ask: does the Prime Minister share the view of the Railway Agency that we are faced with a choice of roads – either we need to increase rail investment and bet properly, or do we have to admit that we are getting a completely different railway in Norway? Or is it really the Prime Minister's answer that we should continue to starve the railways so that everything will be bad in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e542	With regard to Sweden and the relationship between public transport and road, they may be in a slightly different situation than us. We who have traveled a lot on Swedish roads and who have travelled, among other things. On some roads in the West and in North Norway, we do have a good deal to do in the road sector. But we also want to give priority to public transport. First of all, it is important to draw attention to the fact that it is not the case that we are not betting on the railways in Norway. This year, the state spends over 5.5 billion kroner on the railways, and that's a pretty sharp increase from last year. We're going to spend 330 million. kr more this year than last year for operation, maintenance and investments on the railway. NSB is now investing large sums in new and modern train equipment. But it is true that after many years of shortages, there are significant delays. That's what we're about to do, and I think it's right, as the representative Sørensen said, and as the Railway Agency has said, we're facing a choice – I was literally saying. More needs to be done on the railroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e547	For its part, the President will assume that it is a choice of rails and not a choice of roads. Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e552	For the municipal minister: young people have major problems getting into the housing market. Prices are high. The government's own housing commission has determined that low-income dwellings can be a useful supplement to ordinary rental dwellings. 17 housing teams have planned almost 400 low-income dwellings during this year. Then comes the Government's answer: it won't give priority to government grants for such dwellings. How can the Minister of State defend the fact that she is stopping the development of cheap housing for young people in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e557	The government has not stopped any construction of dwellings. The government has not dealt with any questions about low-deposit housing. But what the government has been dealing with is the budget that we had this autumn, and in that respect we have written to the House Bank, gave them clear notice of the priorities, which I actually thought were priorities that the whole Storting was behind. Priority shall be given to: in the case of housing grants, the priority shall be to the homeless projects. Secondly, when municipalities need additional rental housing, they should have the right to receive housing allowances. For example: the settlement of refugees is quite essential. Thirdly, there is general housing support for rental dwellings and for individuals receiving housing allowances to settle. These are the three priority areas for housing grants and grant masses. From this point of view, it now appears that there are some housing companies that have not received social assistance or housing grants to low-income housing through their municipality, which administers the housing grant scheme. It is still fully possible to build low-deposit housing based on loans in the House Bank, but it may not have been given such a high priority in the municipality that it exceeds the priority in these other areas. And I have to say, in fact, in the housing report that the Government has received, it actually has to support those who are really disadvantaged, the highest priority, and getting more general rental homes is a high priority. So if the funds are now used in the municipalities and by the House Bank in a way that when the priority groups, which is generally the ones that have the most difficulty in the housing market, and this is about rental homes, we should be satisfied with it. I have also noted in a letter from the Norwegian Housing Team, where they have asked for priorities in the 2003 budget, that they have not themselves prioritised grants for low-income housing. That's why I was somewhat surprised at the headline in the newspaper, where it looked as if we had said no to something we had not said no to, and that was in an area the housing housing laws themselves had not prioritised in a letter to the Ministry of Local Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e564	I find that both the Government of the Workers' Party and the previous Bondevik government had priority in developing low-income housing as an offer. The consequence of what the council here says, with no grants, is that such dwellings are not built. I am aware that this government will transform housing policy so that the instruments are more limited to the so-called worthy ones. But would it not have been better to grant grants to low-income housing, which would have given more cheap housing to young people and disadvantaged people, instead of providing ever-increasing grants to people who are unable to meet the high housing prices, which, with the government's arrangement, will only be even higher – and especially in a situation where it is actually so ready to start building nearly 400 new homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e571	Firstly, as I said earlier, we have said no to grants, as the representative says. I actually have to ask the Workers' Party what they really are prioritizing. I have seen that rental homes have a higher priority than low-income homes for the Workers' Party. If it is the case that all the funds are used up in the municipalities of the groups that we have jointly prioritised higher in the past, that means that you are not left with funds for low-income housing. No one has said no to support low-deposit housing. Nor is it the case that the government will only give money to those who need it, but we have said that the most important thing about the housing allowance is that it should go to those who have a need. The grant can be obtained in two ways. One can either get it through the fact that the municipality with its partner has a dwelling that has received a housing grant, such as: a rental dwelling, or an individual can receive a housing allowance to establish itself, but then there is an assessment of one’s situation and that there is a lasting problem in the housing market. So I think it's unreasonable what's said from the Workers' Party. I would like to remind you that the Stoltenberg government and the sitting government had exactly the same framework when it came to grants for housing allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e583	There will be follow-up questions - Signe Eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e588	What the municipal minister forgets is that when the Workers' Party presented its budget, we increased the House Bank's budget by NOK 2 billion. It could have given 375 more rental homes, if not the Bondevik government had let go for that increase. And then it's not up to the municipal minister to say that we get the same number of low-income homes if only the municipalities prioritize low-income homes instead of rental homes. It is also the case that the only way to get more and cheaper homes is to build more. And then there's a complete grip, not as the government does, that they didn't increase the loan framework, that they don't prioritize low-income homes, they make the House Bank a first-home bank, and they stop the state selling cheap plots. All of this could contribute to increasing housing construction. What does the municipal minister intend to do to get to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e595	Prioritizing means putting something ahead of something else. What do the Workers' Party place in front of the construction projects for homeless, lettables and housing for refugees to be settled in the municipalities? Do they put grants to low-deposit dwellings ahead of these three purposes? That is the priority issue. No one says no to it, but it comes from the priority areas. On the question of whether more rental properties would be built: No, it is not that more rental properties will be built with the loan framework given to the House Bank, because the mortgage lending framework of the House Bank also has a priority saying that rental properties come before ordinary mortgages. In addition, the government comes back to the loan framework of the House Bank in the revised national budget, which was also said to be done in the budget for the autumn. I disagree with the angle of incidence you have here. The most important thing for building more dwellings is actually to get faster planning and construction processes around the municipalities, and there the government makes a solid contribution to simplification, through the simplifications we have at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e604	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e607	The tragic thing about the situation that has arisen now is that you have to choose, it looks like. And SV misses a good explanation for that. The housing committee has put forward its position now, and if you add up to the investment that the housing committee says is necessary if you really want to do something about the housing needs that are now for young people, people with disabilities and people with poor housing opportunities, you have to do more in many areas. There is too little both in the case of rental homes and in the case of building reasonable dwellings that young people and others have the opportunity to enter with a reasonable entrance ticket. It is also such that the sum that the state lends through the House Bank is actually a clean store for the state. This is not an impact on the current balance of payments in the State budget or a cost to the State. Could I then ask the Council of State if she sees an opportunity to increase this loan framework – without bothering anyone? Does she see that there is a need for an increased bet to get both parts done?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e615	Of course, for all the good posts in a budget, it's easy for us to choose, but that's what we have politicians to – making choices between different priorities and different areas – and that's what a government budget actually does. On the issue of increasing the framework, I have replied that we will return to it in the revised national budget. Now we're looking at the amount of loan claims. The framework has been considerably increased in recent years, including: because the dwelling has been occupied. With regard to the question of the follow-up to the housing notification, it is clear that the sample wants a greater commitment, but I would like to remind you that they actually want the greatest extra effort in the areas that the Government prioritises, and that I have seen that the bulk of the population up to now has given priority, i.e. to those who are really disadvantaged and weak, with housing support schemes and housing grants for that group. In addition, the Government is working on simplifying and improving the establishment and purchase loan arrangements in the House Bank. It will probably also mean that the credit framework of the House Bank needs to be increased over time, because it will have a greater role to play in relation to new entrants. So we're going to work both on a run for the disadvantaged and on a run for ordinary youths who just have a problem with equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e626	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e629	It is good that the government is busy by those who are the most needy and who need a place to bow. And it's also so that if nothing is done, taking some broader roofs, one can actually risk even more people coming in this group. There is a need for a certain number of homes of sober standard out on the market every year. In that context, low-injection buildings where there is an addition, where new ones can move in after they bid there, have found another dwelling, directly targeted at those who need a house for a while. Having a dwelling is also fundamental in relation to work and everyday life. So my question will be: will the government now follow up the Housing Committee when it comes to securing the municipalities cheap plots, and take on board that the House Bank's framework for 2002 was started in 2001, and thus must be increased?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e634	As I said, we are working on the question of the size of the framework for the revised national budget. We'll get back to that in connection with that treatment. And then we see the amount of the loan. It is true that at the end of last year there was a stop in borrowing for normal housing, because one had gone beyond the limits of last year. When it comes to the issue of low-deposit housing as a scheme, there are many positive aspects to such a scheme, but one of the most important forms of saving by buying an owner-occupied dwelling is to share in the value added. Low-deposit housing may have the problem of not participating in the value gain as a result. That's why special low-deposit homes have been built in some places, where you have at the same time had a saving element, a form of coercion savings, as part of it, so that you could participate in the value-added. We're not against the low-deposit housing scheme. We see that there are some kinds of problems, and the main direction still needs to be in our opinion that we go either to rental homes through the municipalities and their partners or to grants that go directly to the individual, and not to the dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e641	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e646	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Questionnaire are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Industry who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Industry, this question is moved and answered before question 23, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative of Raymond Robertsen to the Minister of Health, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 15, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Development, is moved and answered to question 36, i.e. at the request of the Council of State. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 16, from the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, is moved and answered to question 36, i.e. at the request of the Council of State. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 24, from the representative of Mr Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Mr Øystein Hedstrøm. Question 30, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 35, from the representative Hans Seierstad to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative Inger S. Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e670	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Finance has claimed 120 million from the Swedish National Competence Fund. kr in tax related to the sale of Agder Energie shares to Statkraft. Does the Council of State consider that this decision is reasonable and in line with Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Ansgar Gabrielsen's statements from the election campaign that such a tax requirement will not be maintained if the right hand is handed over by the wheel?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e679	As of 1 January 1997, the electricity tax reform made municipalities liable for taxation in line with other actors in the income of the hydropower sector. This is provided for in the tax law § 2-5. The municipalities of West Agder owned power activities through shares in the intermunicipal company West Agder Energiverk. Agder Energie AS was established to collect the power activities in the Agder counties. VAE's assets were transferred to Agder Energia AS against shares in the company as consideration. When the UAE was dissolved, the shares were distributed to the municipalities. Because of the disagreement about the proportion of each municipality owned in the UAE, 15 pst. of the shares transferred to the Swedish Competence Fund. The transfer of the power activity to Agder Energia AS and the subsequent distribution of remuneration shares triggered tax obligations for municipalities. Under the Tax Act, § 11-22, the Ministry of Finance may decide that taxation under general rules shall not be carried out when the realization is part of the reorganisation or conversion of activities with a view to making it more rational and efficient. The aim is that tax rules should not prevent desirable restructuring in business. When the legal requirements are met, tax deferral is granted until any subsequent realisation. It is not within the scope of the law to grant a definitive exemption. This includes, inter alia: that the law is not applied in cases where cash is paid, nor in the case of transfers which result in the loss of the tax base. For a detailed explanation of the department's understanding and practice of the provision, please refer to St.meld. No 16 for 1997-98 and later reference in Ot.prp. No 1 to the State budget. The Ministry has concluded that the restructuring of the power plant in the Agder counties is such a conversion of activities for which the law aims. Therefore, decisions have been taken to defer the taxing of the gains triggered by the restructuring until shares in Agder Energie AS are realised. Because the Swedish Competence Fund is believed to be a tax-free institution, municipalities should not have been subject to tax on the part of the gain in respect of shares transferred to the fund, according to established practice. However, in this particular situation the Ministry found it possible to make a derogation so that the payment obligation for the local government tax on those shares can be transferred to the fund and only lapse when the fund realises the shares of Agder Energia AS. This implies that, in the event of a sale from the fund, the tax is actually distributed among the municipalities in the same proportion as the underlying but unexplained ownership of the transferred shares. The Ministry has focused on finding solutions that do not create liquidity pressures for municipalities and that can be implemented even if the ownership ratio between municipalities is still unclear. In my view, when the municipalities come into the same fiscal position for all of their shares, including those transferred to the Swedish Competence Fund, this is a reasonable solution. It is a solution in line with the understanding of the law, as laid down on several occasions in presentations to the Stortinget. The creation of the fund is excellent, but the financing of it cannot be based on a final tax-free gain on the sale of shares in the power sector. The size has decided that gains in the power sector from 1997 will also be taxable for municipal owners. On this basis, the department of the government of Stoltenberg took the present decisions which must now be regarded as final.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e701	I then perceive that the conclusion is that there is no basis for a definitive tax-free gain. I assume that the fiscal aspects here will be discussed carefully by the rapporteurs of the relevant municipalities, including the rapporteurs of the Right. But this question also has a moral side. Because even though the Minister of Finance uses all his charm and all his skills and knowledge to explain this, the statements of the Minister of Industry will remain in the history books, at least in the building books of West Agder. He was crystal clear in the election campaign and said that if the Right got a hand on the steering wheel, there would be no tax charge. Is it, then, to understand that the final decision in the ministry is in line with or not in line with the Minister of Industry's statements in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e708	The final decision in the department is in line with the law. I think that in a way is what the Storting should worry about. It is the Stortinget which lays down the law, and the Ministry shall practise the kiss according to the law laid down by the Stortinget. Nor can I recall that the representative Simonsen in any party context or who has made an autonomous proposal for exemption from tax on profits for the municipalities if it does so through fund activities. So the issue is relatively new, to say it carefully, and it's a government council's duty to practice the laws of the Stortinge all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e715	I understand that the decision after the Finance Minister's assessment is in line with the law. Is it then such to understand that the Minister of Industry did not have knowledge of the law when he went out with his promises in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e720	Minister of Economic Affairs at that time was as far as I know, Grete Knudsen. I'm not going to comment on Grete Knudsen's understanding of law. I think this case implies so many facts that individual statements of tax freedom can easily be misunderstood, to put it this way. I remember saying in my reply that it is not a tax obligation if the shares in the Swedish Competence Fund are not sold. If they are retained as assets and the fund survives from the return, as determined, there is no tax liability. But it's realising, that is, by selling, that it enters into profit tax in line with the decision the Stortinget has taken, including the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e731	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The police control 1.6 million cars a year.’ – Here I must be allowed to rectify, President, it should read ‘drivers’, not ‘cars’. – ‘This happens manually and requires considerable resources. However, the founder Per Lennart Johnsen from Steinkjer has developed an electronic system for this type of control, a system that will be very resource-saving for several public agencies. Could the Council of State be willing to launch a test or pilot project based on Johnsen’s idea of electronic one-off wafers on Norwegian vehicles?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e740	Can I first, with the President's permission, provide a little additional information in connection with a previous Question Time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e745	It's accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e748	Thank you, President! In connection with questions in the Question Time on 6 February 2002 concerning the closure of the preschool at Hustad, I informed them that 40 posts would be continued after the closure. However, the correct thing is that approx. 30 posts are continued. Then I go over to the question from the representative Sandberg. Initially, I think I have reason to point out that as Minister of Justice, I am grateful for any good proposal that can be resource-saving in view of the many tasks that the police are going to perform. Traffic services in the police confiscate considerable resources in the police. These tasks span a wide range of registers, from roadside checks to investigations and prosecution of offences. In relation to the proposal referred to by the representative, some conservative information has been provided. However, from the information available, I have some doubts as to whether this proposal will be particularly resource-efficient in relation to the police's tasks. The Directorate of Police also states that, in their opinion, the system is based only on registration and verification of the ownership of the car, among other things. paid the annual tax and insurance. On the other hand, as far as police traffic controls are concerned, they are directed primarily towards the driver of the vehicle. Secondaryly, the vehicle is checked. In addition to the judicial and police authorities, other departments and bodies have important tasks in the field of road safety. The Ministry of Transport and the Directorate-General for Road Transport have, among other things: by virtue of its responsibilities under the Road Law and the Road Traffic Act, a primary responsibility for road safety. It can also be stated that I received a letter from the Ministry of Transport on 4 March 2002, stating that the person concerned was at the Directorate of Roads on 2 November 2000 and demonstrated the system. In this connection, it became, among other things, stated that a test among parts of the vehicle fleet would be difficult and of limited value. The Road Directorate then considered that such a test as has been proposed was not relevant at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e769	I thank you for your answer. According to the Directorate of Roads’ own estimates, it cost 12.25 million in 2000. to produce and send the documents to the car owners. Each shipment, therefore, costs $5.45 per item. pieces. We can assume that the following costs will mainly be hours related to the updating costs, the vehicle checks themselves and frequent database visits. The Customs and Charges Directorate and the Road Directorate will save 12 million. kr each year by using electronic wafers. We know that the roadside inspection of the vehicle carried out by the Norwegian police with today's system shows that if the detachment request and the theft report are checked in the usual way, this consumption will be 2 minutes per day. vehicle outside and 2 minutes inside the centre of operation. If one assumes that the Norwegian police control 1.6 million drivers, all of whom have their own vehicles, a saving of 2 minutes would be out and 2 minutes per. posting release 106 660 hours, or close to 60 years' work. At parking spaces and car parks, 10 to 12 vehicles can be checked in one minute using Micro Mark. That is, here's a lot of resources to save. I had hoped that the Council of State would be a little clearer in the answer to whether a pilot project could be launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e776	A government council has a constitutional responsibility, and I'm trying to answer that. But I am, of course, the Council of State in a government as well. I hear that the representative raises issues relating to other departments. I expressed in my answer the answer that I had the basis for giving, but I will not, of course, oppose it if the representative can make sure that I get more knowledge and insight into the question he has raised, and I will then, on an open basis, reserve the right to assess it freely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e781	I thank you for that. Of course, I'll make sure of that. I know the Council of State so carefully that when he says what he says now, he also means to follow it up. Then, as we say in the tranny, there is hope in the hanging string. I hope that was what the Council of State suggested in this case. As the Council of State was also involved, in 2000 Johnsen actually got a clear signal from the Ministry of Justice to launch a pilot project to find out to what extent an electronic marking system would be a good tool for the police. In 2001, the system was presented to the Ministry of Finance and referred to the Directorate of Customs and Fees. The year before, the transport and registration office in the Road Directorate was presented to the system, which they were not very happy about. Now it might seem that the Directorate of Road also has a different view of this, so it might be possible to reach it. As regards the cost of this, according to Johnsen himself, a pilot project will cost about 20 million. kr. My follow-up question to the state council is then: Is it maybe worth spending 20 million? kr on a project if the result will be correct in relation to Johnsen's own calculations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e790	I don't think I'm going to do any budgetary work in an open Question Time, but I'm going to find out what I said instead. I have not given any promise of what I am in favour of, but I have given a promise to listen and make sure that the listening is qualified. That's what I said instead, and I repeat it. I think that an idea has a claim to be evaluated and evaluated in a context, and I would like to repeat that to the representative Sandberg in my additional response. I have given no promise of the conclusion, but promise of listening, with competent people, it is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e798	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In a recent press release from the Ministry of Justice, there is evidence that settlement queues continue to increase. The statistics show a steady increase in the country as a whole. One of the problems in this way is, after what I understand, the lack of prison officers. Will the Council of State take the initiative to increase the number of prison officers trained annually in order to allow more people to receive housing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e807	This leads to the correctness of the increase in the number of settlement queues. The press release to which Mr Ellingen refers explains the situation. This includes, inter alia: the increase in the pay queue is caused by the fact that the regular regular production of criminal cases in the police, prosecutors and courts exceeds the capacity of the criminal justice system. With continued high capacity in other parts of the criminal justice chain, the increase will continue. The East and South regions have seen the greatest increase in the cows' nests. The use of capacity in prisons has been very high in 2001 and to date in 2002. Ordinary settlement capacity in this period has been 2,923 places. It is true that shortages of training capacity for prison officials have resulted in unfortunate results, partly by the fact that smaller departments have had to close for shorter periods, and partly by the fact that the proportion of unskilled workers is worrying in many institutions. The number of prison officers trained will also be a framework condition for our efforts to expand the number of settlements. This is a challenge I as Minister of Justice must take seriously. We've already increased the regular aspirin peak at Prison to 150. These have been trained in November this year and a further 150 will be graduated in November 2003. In the first year of education, which consists primarily of a period of practice, they will represent a resource for criminal justice. In order to meet the need for a sufficient number of staff trained in prison, it was decided last December to set up an additional class at the Prison School of 15 prison aspirants in addition to the six ordinary classes with a total of 150 aspirants. These 15 will carry out the training at Stavanger Prison and the Åna County Prison. The aspirants are now admitted to school and will join April 1 this year. In planning increased prison capacity, we will also address the need for increased professional staffing and how we will manage to implement it in the planning process. I will therefore not exclude that there will be further special arrangements for grades associated with Prison School. I will come back to that in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e818	There are two essential conditions which are essential in the case of the queue. One is the prison capacity. In his reply, the Minister pointed out that it was being exploited very highly. The other is the officer's side and the qualities you have there. On the news today, there were headlines showing that those who get low penalties actually have a problem getting settled because they are getting low priorities. And I would think in many ways it's actually those who have the lowest penalties, who have the greatest need to settle. Thus, they are hit twice by the system we have today. I have otherwise realized that the Minister of Justice is a person who wants to put word and action together here, so that something can be done about these things. Then my question becomes: what does the Minister of Justice actually intend to do to take responsibility for the problems that we actually have today, which unfortunately seem to be increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e827	As I mentioned earlier in the Questionnaire, twelve years ago, the payroll was 9,000. It was built down to approx. 1 000 over a period of four to five years. Now we have a reconciliation queue that has grown to approx. 2000 – which I replied to in a previous Question Time. What I have already done is the extra effort associated with the situation in Rogaland, and I have said that I will not rule out that this could happen in the future as well. But as the many questions related to this are related to natural budgetary contexts – that's how the Storting feels too – so I have to reserve the right to come back to that. I recognise the description, but once it's a reconciliation queue, we have a priority: paragraph 1, custody, paragraph 2, long-term judge plus people who have renunciation, and paragraph 3, violence. It's simply to ensure that criminals are deployed in these circumstances. The description of those who are then in line is the same as the representative Ellingsen has done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e834	It is interesting to hear the comment from the Minister of Justice. At the same time, the total will not be better than what the Government is able to do, and then you will also have to seek out alliances when you have to have a majority for your budgets. And when the minister has gone zero-tolerance, went high on the zero-tolerance path, there has to be something behind here, there has to be a device. If not, the minister's believers stand on some thin ice here, in my opinion. At least I expect an answer here and want to challenge the minister. Because it is well that you actually mean something when you go out and say that you want to put zero tolerance on the agenda, as a concept of wanting to implement the necessary measures in order to be able to succeed with such an attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e839	Now zero tolerance means, for example, that you can't carry weapons on the open street. in a car. That's what Stortinget will get as a matter of fact pretty soon. Some of the zero tolerance would mean you're being taken care of. It's a priority. Of course, I acknowledge that statement. But with regard to all aspects of the criminal chain, including the capacity of criminal services and having enough professionals, it's purely budgetary matters, which I have to come back to in the context of where it's natural. The reality description shares the representative Ellingsen and I.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e851	There is a question to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Government announced by press release on 11 February this year that it will create a new archive for the mortgage books in Hardanger. The government has announced the presentation of a large-scale announcement on the property property prospecting later in the spring. What is the reason why the mortgage book archive should not be considered in the context of the discussion about the property disclosure of property, and at the same time that the Stortinget is debating the Government's communication on the disclosure of things?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e860	The Pantheon books contain copies of all materialistic documents in Norway since about a year ago. 1936. As we can see from the question from the representative of Storberget, they are part of what is traditionally referred to as the land exploration. Today, the courts of the first instance are responsible for this task, and the mortgage books are kept there. As the representative of Storberget points out, the Government wants to establish a separate entity in Ullensvang to handle the pawnbooks for the whole country. This position has been developed in the context of the process of grossing-up on the future organisation of land exploration. The Government also intends to promote this message before Easter. I believe that such a separate unit for the mortgage books will be beneficial regardless of how the clearing of things is organised. I still agree that it is natural to touch this in the big message the Government is going to promote. The issue will thus form part of the debate to be held by Stortinget in this context. It would therefore be ample opportunity to come back to this issue on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e869	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that we are given the opportunity to debate this in its entirety, and that is to the extent part of my question and my wish. At the same time, I have to disagree very much with the Minister of Justice as to the fact that the placement of the pawnbooks is independent of the way things are organised. What kind of basis does the ministry have to say in the answer now? Where you put all the pawnbooks, and that all the stuffy documents are centralised, shouldn't there be anything to say about how things are organized, whether it's local, regional or central? Taking a decision in relation to this would probably mean that the whole thing is already being centralised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e876	Now the representative asks me to submit a message to Stortinget later. The press release to which the representative himself refers concludes: ‘The government’s position is included in the work of the Land Property Change Notice, which the Government is required to promote before Easter’. Of course, the government has the right to promote a position, and then it has to find out that the Storting then treats it. However, in the press release that was the starting point of the question, it was also made aware that it is in the proceedings in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e886	I am fully aware of the procedure, and that is exactly what is at stake. To the extent that the press release invites you to dance, it is by bringing that leak before the staging message is presented to Stortinget. What in many ways becomes important in this dance is then the question: does the Minister of Justice see that the level of public service in relation to the lighting of things is actually related to where all the materialistic documents are located in the country, that it is actually related to what kind of service the public can provide for its citizens? Finally, I would also like to ask about the background to the press release, what was the concrete reason for placing this archive in Ullensvang.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e891	Now the representative's starting point, based on a press release, which I have quoted from, was that it should not be dealt with in Stortinget. I have said that it should be dealt with in Stortinget. Of course, I understand that the lighting of things is a whole thing. And I can at least say that I attach great importance to the fact that users are going to be better served with the solution that will be presented. That will give the Storting plenty of opportunity to discuss. As regards the specific assessment made by the mortgage book register, the press release also shows that we saw that this was a measure that could be solved in this way. But it is up to Stortinget to assess whether it agrees or not. We have also said that when one shows well in a community the kind of initiative that has been shown here, it can also be an important political signal to reward this kind of active enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e898	Question 5 will be answered before question 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e905	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Since mid-December last year, the police in Elverum have targeted 18 people for drug use and possession and seized more drugs at this time than in the last two years. How will the Council of State contribute to stopping and minimising this alarming crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e914	Like many other countries in the country, the drug problem in Elverum is worrying. However, Elverum is not particularly distinguished, although in recent times some relatively large seizures of drugs have been made there. In general, the percentage of drug-related information is evenly high, with an estimated 90 pst. This is related to the fact that almost all cases have been initiated by the police themselves through investigation, intelligence and action against particular environments and reflect increased police efforts. Recently, in line with key directives, Hedmark police districts have increased their efforts to combat drug crime. Efforts have been more targeted, both at specific people and environments. This has produced visible results in seizures statistics. In addition, there is a general increase in drug use. It is worrying that, in general, there appears to be clear indications of negative trends in the relationship between young people and drugs. The police record that young people often devalue drug use. The police officer in Hedmark has for the current year prioritised the prevention work specifically directed at young offenders, as well as the fight against drug crime, the crime of winnings and the crime of violence. I can also inform you that the Government has set up a State Secretary Group to present, during the year, actions in key areas to strengthen the work against drug abuse. In line with the Government’s commitment to children and young people, prevention should be the main task of reducing abuse and strengthening the overall prevention efforts to prevent new recruitment to drug use, in particular drug use. At the heart of this prevention effort are measures to prevent early onset of drug use by children and young people. Police shall contribute significantly to preventing such new recruitment by, inter alia: prevention through cross-border cooperation. The model of coordination of local actions, the SLT model, shall include, inter alia: used and implemented nationally in this context. In order to prevent recruitment to drug abuse, I suggest that the police meet with the parents of the students during high school, preferably in 8th grade, on drug threats and parental responsibilities. We need a sustained effort both nationally and internationally. Police intelligence must be at the heart of efforts to combat illegal drug imports and trafficking and organised crime, to combat illegal entry, trafficking, drug trafficking, and to expose the perpetrators of illegal immigration. This will be done in cooperation with customs authorities and the aim is to reduce drug supply and demand. In particular, attention and work must be paid to crime related to various forms of fashion baptism, such as designer drugs, cocaine/crack, etc., to which young people in particular are attracted. Finally, I mention that by the end of March, the Police Directorate will have completed an action plan on drugs. The plan will be implemented in all police districts of the country. This, together with the police chief’s priorities for the current year, will be important prerequisites for increased efforts to reverse developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e927	I thank you for a full and good answer. If everything in that answer becomes reality, which I hope it will be, we'll hope that it will be a minimum. When I asked this question, I started with an article about what is happening in Elverum, but it is clear that this could happen anywhere in Norway, and I would like to go to my home, Flisa, so that's what I said. What makes a little bit of a difference here is that you have a 90 pst clarification, which is very good. Then you would think that if you gave the police and customs even more resources, you would get rid of this. What turns out in the case of Elverum is that most of the 18 convictions in drug matters are repeaters, there are people who have done this several times before. Then we have a big problem. How will the government solve it with repeaters, because it doesn't seem like they've been scared?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e934	Now you can be repetitions in many ways. You can be repeated because you commit crime in addition to drug abuse, which is, of course, prohibited. I intend to come back to that in connection with various criminal reform proposals. But with regard to repeaters in relation to drugs, we have a partnership between the Ministry of Justice and other departments to have a good treatment offer. If you are first inserted – if that’s the situation – I think it’s important to strengthen what we call §12-soning, that people can get help to get out of addiction. If we go beyond the police's efforts, which are very important, and as I described in my answer, I have as my starting point that I think many more people in Norway today die of drugs because of lack of faith that it benefits, than of heroin itself. So it's this context, which will affect the cooperation between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, which is important. This will come back to the Government in the context of different measures. But in my main answer, I have chosen to focus on the fight against crime, as I have now sketched it to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e939	In its reply, the Council of State, the Tollvesenet, referred to it. An article in the Glaum Valley of 8 January 2002 says: ‘A growing number of people are smuggling wine, beer and cigarettes.’ This, of course, also shows that more and more drugs are being smuggled. If we can get extra cooperation with Customs and strengthen its resources, I think it can help reduce the large amount of drugs entering.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e944	There are two things I want to comment on – one is national, and the other is local. First of all, cooperation with Customs is important. I have seen it in a number of contexts, and I am absolutely convinced that the Minister of Finance is aware of the responsibility of ensuring that the Tollvessen does a good job. Then there are some local relationships as well. I don't know enough about the situation at Elverum, but I hope that people who run locally, among other things. in the context of gift policy, it is conscious that when someone receives a gift grant easily, they should indeed be easily deprived of it, in that sense. Unfortunately, based on my experience in many places, this is not the case. It's a local relationship that I can only observe and express about in this context, but I'm convinced that the representative of Bredvold has better insight into exactly these local conditions than what I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e952	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘According to Bergen’s Official Journal, the settlement offer for women in Bergen in prison is shattered. They are not given the opportunity to open atoning or to a course that can qualify them for a life after atonement. Women and men convicted of the same crime have different atoning conditions without an individual justification. Women lose the progression in soning that they claim. This is gross discrimination against women. What will the Council of State do to give female prisoners valuable atonement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e961	The above-mentioned open section in Bergen prison is a department with a lower level of safety on the outside of the prison ring wall. The department consists of four housing units, each with eight places, plus 32 places. In one of these housing units, women have lived in the last seven –eight years. Of nearly 200 prisoners in Bergen prison, only 12–15 are women. Part of these are in custody. The female housing unit in the lower level of safety in the department has been evenly above two to four women, and therefore four to six cells have been empty. It is a high priority to ensure the maximum use of the premises. It cannot be defended in a situation of increasing queues, in addition to a high need for number of guard stations, to continue with a system which so makes poor use of capacity. The housing unit is therefore temporarily disposed of by male prisoners. The women who would otherwise qualify for the department with a lower level of safety are now in an ordinary Community department within the ring-wall. I would otherwise like to point out that it is not right that women are not offered courses and programme participation. They are offered a course equal to that of the male prisoners. Unfortunately, both national and international good research-based action programmes for women are few. However, this is changing. Women in Bergen prison are offered both a stress training program and a thought training program. Currently, there are no women in Rusprogramm. A new and good drug action programme for women is being sought. The Bergen prison is currently discussing different measures to enable better and more differentiated provision to be made to female prisoners. Finally, I would like to mention that the possibility for women to progress in the form of increased contact with society outside is safeguarded by the fact that, after individual assessment, they are given the possibility of increased leave and leave for work and school outside prison, in order to remedy the fact that they are no longer offered shelter in the lower-security department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e972	I thank you for your answer. It's like there's a few women in prison. Then you have to be extra careful so that they do not become a balancing item. I think it's good that alternatives are being worked on for women in Bergen. However, the situation description provided by the Council of State does not coincide with the situation description provided by women and also provided by employees. That's why I want to challenge the Council of State to take a trip to Bergen State Prison and talk to them, and take this up with the women. Governments mentioned drug problems, and it is incredibly important to look at them. This is about women who have a completely different background than men. Often it's about sexual assault. Therefore, it is important that they receive their special offers. I want to challenge the Council of State to look at and ensure that women in prison get the help they need in this area as well, and that research is started in the field of drug problems that is not just on men's premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e983	I've actually done a lot to get involved in women's reconciliation. In my last round as Minister of Justice, I visited Fredrikstad prison, where people actually put up a unique way for them as sons there. I've been to Bredtveit and Trondheim, where there are women, and I've been to Bergen prison recently. I just notice that Bergen prison has a group of employees who have a lot of motivation and a lot of willingness to think new and different – they just impressed me, I have to say it that way. Once I have been informed that they are busy compensating for what I said, which is taking advantage of the places, and they are also looking for a scheme in the matter of intoxication, I have confidence that they will do their utmost to do so. Then, on a general basis, I agree with the representative that in the case of drugs, whether male or female, we in Norway are too poor. We have too little administrative cooperation between what's going on inside prison, what's happening to methadone projects, and what's happening to life outside. It is one of my strong challenges to make administrative cooperation work, so that no one, whether women or men, is made a waste of money in the system when they try to get out of the drug problem. But it's a significant challenge, and I've at least set myself before going into it heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e990	I thank you for this answer as well. I share that view with the Council of State that there is reason to be impressed by the work that many employees in Bergen National Prison do. I've been there too. But women have a completely different background than men do, so there's reason to look at it. Everyone gets a course, said the Council of State. That might be right. But the problem is that very few women get courses and programs that qualify them for a job outside the walls. JURK says that after 20 years there has been no improvement, for example. in Bredtveid prison. So this is a general problem – not just in Bergen prison. JURK can also report on a number of issues related to women in prison, for example: that they have proper conditions when they are to be visited by children, etc. Will the Council of State go through the reconciliation conditions of women in particular, and make sure that this is systematically worked on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e999	In fact, I want to look in general at what is the resolution implementation policy. In that context, I want to pay attention to women because they become a special group in prison. I have put great emphasis on this, among other things. by visiting one of the smaller prisons, Fredrikstad Prison, which is just facing many of the problems that the representative is raising. By looking at criminal enforcement policy, I will also look at the challenges faced by different groups of prisoners. I have also said that to other representatives here, because there are so many challenges to it that we have to look at what the status is, we have to look at administrative cooperation. The representative may at least have my word that the female prisoners in this context should also receive the attention they should receive, so that they do not become a marginalised group in the context of settlement conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1007	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to media surveys, a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice is set up to deploy all coastal radio stations, with the exception of the main rescue centres in Bodø and Sola. Coastal radio represents an important safety factor for the fishing industry and other maritime activities. The proposal has, therefore, caused considerable concern among people along the coast. Will the Council of State ensure that coastal radio stations are maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1016	As the responsible minister for coordination of the Norwegian rescue service, I am very concerned that we have a well-functioning rescue service. A good rescue service depends on adequate communication access. An important resource in this context is the coastal radios. Today we have nine manned coastal radio stations in Norway, including one at Svalbard. The use of mobile telephones and satellite communications has gradually resulted in a reduction in the commercial traffic of the Coastal Radio. Therefore, the emergency and security services have become the primary task of the Coastal Radio. General technological developments have now come so far that it is natural to consider the possibility of further developing the emergency and maritime safety services by automating some coastal radio stations. Like the representative, Mr Ringstad, I have also registered a certain concern among the coastal population after this report was presented. The report has been on a wide-ranging consultation, and my ministry is currently working to sew together all the hearing opinions and prepare a decision-making basis. I therefore do not want to make any final recommendation here and now on what that coastal radio structure is going to look like. On the other hand, I can say with certainty that I will not go into a solution that will in any way weaken today's emergency and safety service at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1029	I understand from the government's answer that he is not willing to go into the issues particularly deeply, but I want to emphasize that this is a question that concerns people along the coast very strongly. And I react a little when the Council of State points out that the mobile phone should somehow be a bit of a future solution. We all know that the conditions for mobile phones are very different, so I guess that's not something we can trust. It is also worth noting that today’s nine decentralised coastal radio stations have invested 55 million. kr in new technical equipment, to be put into service during the year. There is no reason to believe that the Council of State and I disagree that coastal surveillance is a very topical issue, not only because of small boat traffic and fishing boats, but also in the light of the warning oil transport from Northern Russia. Will the Council of State see what capacity it has to use the resources provided by the coastal radio stations and, where appropriate, help to strengthen the role of coastal radio stations today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1036	Now my reference to mobile phone was not an analysis of future solutions. It was a description, where I said that the use of mobile phone and satellite communications has gradually led to a reduction in the commercial traffic of the Coastal Radio per. today. So I didn't go into the future solution just for the reason that I mentioned, that it's been out for a broad consultation, and we're now processing this into a decision-making basis. It is quite right as the representative said, I have not intended to go deeper into it beyond what I have fixed, and as I would like to repeat, that I will not go in for a solution that in any way weakens the current emergency and safety service at sea. That's what I'm saying because just like the representative, I have a lot of strong experiences of what security means along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1043	I thank you for your answer. I just want to point out that coastal radio stations are monitoring a large number of emergency channels. In terms of infrastructure, Norway can best compare with Canada and the United Kingdom, both of which today have approx. 20 coastal radio stations. It has been assessed on the basis of the risk and efficient use of resources. As far as I know, users have not been part of the work done by the working group, and the trade unions make up minorities in the working group. There are also very shared views about the economy of the majority in the working group. Although the Council of State does not want to address conclusions, I would like to ask the question: will the Council of State before concluding on this matter, see to it that the economy in the majority of its proposals is thoroughly evaluated? There is no reason to change something that works well. Will the Council also see to it that a thorough risk assessment is carried out in which users are also involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1054	I will not go into the details of my handling of the matter when it comes so far, other than that I want to be sure that the questions to be asked have been considered, and it will of course be clear that the economy is part of it. It is for everyone who is to be responsible for managing the budgets that are available, so I will go into that. And because I haven't gone into this, I gave no other answer than what I gave, namely that there's a matter I want to go into with the different sides that belong to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1062	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In connection with the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2001-2002 the majority of the Grand Duchy adopted the following proposal: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to ensure that the costs of using the medicinal product Remicade are covered by the BIP.’ How far has the implementation of this Decision come and when will patients benefit from the benefit of this Decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1071	Remicade is a reproductive medicine that currently has its essential use in hospitals. Treatment with Remicade is therefore covered by the basic budgets of the health business and through input-driven funding. However, following the decision of the Stortingen, the financing of Remicade is no longer to be covered by health businesses, but by the public interest. Section 5-1 of the Social Security Act states in the third paragraph that social security does not provide benefits for, inter alia: medicinal products in so far as they provide benefits under other legislation; It is also a matter of law on specialist healthcare that hospitals themselves have the financial responsibility for the medicinal products used in the treatment of patients. This means that the public interest cannot take over the financial responsibility of the hospitals for Remicade without the first amendment of the People's Security Act. I made this clear to the Stortinge during the budgetary procedure before Christmas. On this basis, I would like to put forward a motion of censure with the necessary legislative amendments. I will carry out the necessary consultation and then present the matter to the Stortinget. The legislative changes will then be followed up in the budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1080	I would like to thank you for your answer. I wonder when the health minister says he will send the Stortinges decision to the hearing. As far as I know, the Storting in this case has given a very clear signal, a very clear decision on what to do. I fully support the fact that the Council of State may need to consult with its specialists in the Ministry in order to draft the legal text. However, sending out a big decision at the hearing on how it should be – then I would like to ask if the Minister for Health intends to take a new practice of sending the Stortingen decision to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1087	There is no doubt that the Storting Decision will be implemented. I'll make that absolutely clear. But it follows from my obligation to investigate with Stortinget that when I present a legislative amendment, it must be substantiated and investigated. A step in that process is to send it to the hearing. However, the reality of the Storting decision that this should be transferred from popular funding to hospital funding will be followed up, as foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1094	I thank you again for the answer. However, I still ask myself that the decision to raise the issue should be sent to the hearing, because I think the decision is very clear. And it must be reasonably quick to carry out legal work in this matter and get the system in place. I hope that the Minister of Health will put in place at least an odelstingsproposition in advance of the revised national budget, so that the scheme can be put into effect in connection with this. This is a strange situation, as we were able to decide in one year that all hospitals would be transferred to the state. Thus, the largest health reform ever seen by Norway was used approximately. a year to adopt, and almost equivalent time to amend one small paragraph of the Social Security Act so that patients with Revmatism are given the opportunity to receive the medicinal product Remicade. Will the Minister for Health at least give the signal that this has been done at the latest in the context of the revised national budget and that the decision of the Storting has been complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1105	I would first like to stress that treatment with this medicinal product is currently covered by the basic budgets of the healthcare company, through input-driven funding. It is not that there is no financing of this type of treatment today. Having said that, without going into specific dates, I will undertake to implement this as quickly as it is at all reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1115	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «Norway has had poor treatment for young people with eating disorders for a very long time. Modum Bad's Nervesanatorium, which has a special unit for eating disorders, tells us that they cannot accept the worst patients. Will the Council of State ensure that the department of Modum Bad’s Nervesanatorium, one of the few specialised departments we have, is also provided with resources to accept the most serious cases of eating disorders, as these are in a life-threatening situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1124	Let me first give the representative Alvheim the right to say that the treatment offered to young people with eating disorders is not good enough in many places in the country. For this reason, I was given a separate strategy plan for eating disorders in my previous period as Minister of Health. I'm emphasising that this is being followed up. Among other things, regional health enterprises are specifically asked to follow up the strategy plan of specialist health services. Although the current situation is that treatment is given to people with eating disorders at all outpatient clinics in mental health protection, both for adults and for children, there is a need to further strengthen the supply. The treatment offer for people with eating disorders at the Modum Bad Nervesanatorium has been prioritised. In 1999, this treatment provision was reinforced by 4 million. kr to extend the capacity by seven places. This increase was increased by 1.8 million. kr in 2000 and has since been continued. It is important that persons with serious somatic complications are treated for eating disorders in a department associated with a somatic hospital. The restrictions on the treatment of people with severe eating disorders at Modum Bad are primarily due to long distance from somatic hospitals. In addition, the treatment programme in which group-based and professionally assessed as not suitable for the very underweight patients is considered. The Ministry is not aware that the institution wishes to extend treatment provision to the most serious cases of eating disorders, as suggested in the question. However, I would like to stress that within the overall treatment system in the country there is a sufficient and good offer to those who are seriously ill with eating disorders. This work has priority. In the context of the strategy plan for eating disorders, a number of sites in the country are building up specialised services for patients with severe eating disorders. Let me give you a few examples: At the psychiatric clinic at Haukeland Hospital, from November last year, a special unit has been set up for the most treatment-intensive patients with eating disorders. The target group is over 18 years of age. The unit will start up with four beds, but plans an extension to five beds. They are planning to extend the daily service they currently have for two to three patients to ten to twelve patients. It's set at seven million. EUR earmarked for this for 2002. In addition to Haukeland Hospital, Health Region Mid-Norway has established a regional team for eating disorders from 1 September last year. This is the first step in setting up a special unit for patients with severe eating disorders. Per. On 1 February 2002, the four places at the hospital in Levanger are available. This treatment provision is in the process of being further developed. I would also like to point out that through the purchase of services abroad project, people suffering from severe eating disorders are a priority group. Through a separate project in this context, 28 patients with severe disorders received treatment abroad in 2001. This project is also important to contribute to the transfer of competences to Norway. Within the framework of a cooperation agreement between Norway and France, we are now aiming to develop a programme for the exchange and training of personnel. I know that there is still a good deal to be done before we have a good treatment offer for this group, and I see it as very important to give this priority in line with the strategy plan. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have some challenges in prevention too, so that the least possible is in a situation where they develop a serious eating disorder.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1143	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It was interesting to hear about the cooperation with France. In my view, a special department, regardless of which discipline, cannot accept the most serious cases — and in this context patients with advanced bulimia and anorexia — should not be allowed to maintain the term ‘specialisation’. In Norway today, between 300 and 500 young people aged 12 years have serious eating disorders, such as bulimia and anorexia, and have major problems in receiving treatment. Often the solution is emergency hospitalisation in somatic hospitals for probe feeding and then return to home without adequate psychiatric follow-up. I am also familiar with the establishment of a centre at Haukeland Hospital. I think I heard the Health Minister now said that it was for patients over 18 years of age – it is possible I heard errors, I would like it confirmed – but what about those patients who are far younger than 18 years of age, some are only 12-13 years of age? Will the new Haukeland Hospital department also be able to accept these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1154	I agree that the special departments targeted at the heaviest and most serious cases must have the necessary connection with somatic health care, because close interaction between psychiatry and somatics is absolutely necessary. That doesn't mean we don't need other types of offers, let what is established, with the support of Stortinget, at Modum Bad. There is no doubt that the offer at Modum Bad fills a significant need. They could have taken in far more than they actually do. So here I think one has to see it so that one cannot rule out the other. I want to work to get a general reinforcement of this, and that the offers are also targeted at younger age groups than those over 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1161	I thank you again for the answer. I think this is a matter that needs to be prioritised quite high. This has been done so far by this government, and also by the former Bondevik government. But we've come a long way to the finish line. When we operate with special departments like the one on Modum Bad, and you get the answer that these patients are too bad to be accepted there, it's something that creeps with me. You don't have to have a physical connection to a somatic hospital. In the case of Modum Bad, the solution will be to provide the hospital with resources, i.e. human resources, which are also able to provide this with artificial nutrition and coercive feeding of these patients, while being under psychiatric treatment. My last question is: Will the Minister of Health again contact Modum Bad and ask whether they can consider accepting these heavy patients if they are adequately resourced, such as personnel and special staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1172	I have been in contact with the management of Modum Bad, and their assessment is that it will not be professionally sound for them to accept patients who need services in the border country between psychiatry and somatics. I think I have to deal with that. Of course, if Modum Bad were to apply for an extension of his services, we would treat the application with goodwill. We have great faith in the treatment system that you generally have at Modum Bad. But for the time being, they have not wanted or applied for such an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1182	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Many thousands of Norwegian children today grow up with gay parents. Research shows that these children grow up in the same line as children in heterophilic relationships. Does the Council of State think it right that we should discriminate against people who seek an offer in Health-Norway on the basis of sexual orientation, and will the Council of State change the law so that even women who are not married can gain access to artificial conception?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1191	In the first law on artificial conception from 1987, the offer was limited to couples. There St.meld. No 25 for 1992-93, On Humans and Biotechnology, was presented in 1993, Harlem Brundtland was concerned that the intention, resources, values and consequences of the scheme had to be discussed in an ethical perspective. One of the discussions at the time was whether the scheme should be extended to cohabitants. Artificial fertilisation was subsequently extended to be an offer to couples and stable partners of different sexes. Whether this should also apply to gay cohabiters was not a central question at the time. However, the Social Committee stressed that it supported the views of the Government at that time in relation to the target audience for the offer. Artificial fertilisation is an offer from health services to remedy male and female medical infertility or infertility that is otherwise inexplicable. Therefore, in relation to today's law, I cannot see that it is right to talk about any discrimination because of sexual orientation in these cases. The reason for childlessness for women living in lesbian conditions is different from the justification given by the legislator for the offer – medical or otherwise unexplained involuntary childlessness. In the near future, the government will present a key message on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. I will not propose any extensions on who will be offered artificial fertilisation. However, the size will be given the opportunity to discuss these issues in a broader context when the communication is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1200	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for his answer. We know that in this field, which is a difficult field for many, there has been very much movement in the last ten years. Since the Stortingen dealt with the partnership law in 1992, we also know that there have been major changes in Norwegian society, which we were surveyed last week. We have recently seen a new attitude and a new line from the Christian People's Party on many value issues. We also know that the Christian People's Party has now changed its attitude when, among other things, the equalisation of rights of cohabitants and spouses. We know that as many as perhaps 20,000 children today grow up with gay parents, and fortunately these children have it as well as children with heterophilic parents. Then the question that any politician with power has to ask himself: is it so that we want to open up this opportunity, so that we can get this in safer and more orderly forms than what is actually the situation today? That's my specific question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1213	As Minister of Health, I have to deal with what healthcare should offer to the public of healthcare, and on what basis. In my answer, I have not addressed the more family policy issues that the representative Bekkelem Orheim is now raising, but I have related to what is the professional medical justification for the offer that healthcare actually provides today, and I cannot see that the developments that the representative Bekkelem Orheim refers to have changed on the basis of this. Of course, if you want to go into a discussion about changing healthcare services on a different and expanded basis, you can do so. The Government does not intend to propose amendments at this point, but the Communication on the Evaluation of the Biotechnology Act will discuss the issue and the Stortinget will be able to make the assessments that the Stortinget wants to make in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1222	Then I would like to thank you again for the answer. I want to say that on a fundamental basis, the health sector is constantly facing new challenges, precisely through research and the new competences that we get in this field. This means that the political parties and the Storting must continue to engage in discussions, including discussions on difficult ethical issues, and I think it would be interesting if the person responsible in the Ministry of Health – even though I see this goes into the responsibility of another department – had given a clear answer. I understand that this matter must be dealt with in the Government and that the decision of the Biotechnology Committee will be dealt with in the Stortinget. I am then informed that the Minister of Health will not give a more complete and concrete answer to my question than he has now given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1227	Let me say that the representative of Bekkelem Orheim can be absolutely certain that in the communication on biotechnology there will be a number of ethical issues that the Government believes it is absolutely necessary to discuss in the light of developments in this area. This is one of the issues that Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss. I have stated a clear answer to the question of what is my position and the Government's position, namely that we do not intend to propose amendments to the framework conditions at this point in relation to what has been the current policy of the Biotechnology Act was adopted, as the Harlem Brundtland government suggested in the big news that I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1237	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «In July 2001 the health surveillance of the Member States submitted a report on the state of health provision for school children. It revealed major shortcomings in the provision of school health services, especially in secondary schools. The report also contained several concrete recommendations for improvement. What will the Council of State do to improve the provision of health care for children and young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1246	The government’s policy base is that the government will expand health and school health services to include high school students. The Social Committee also addresses this in the Budgetary Section. S. No 11 for 2001-2002 and states that: ‘it is necessary and desirable to take action to ensure the development of the school health service in secondary school’. Let me point out some elements that we're dealing with. School health services are governed by local health law and by regulations on health services in schools. This regulation has its scope for children and young people of school age as a result of the inclusion of education in schools in the Training Act. The health station provision applies primarily to the promotion of mental, physical and social health of infants and young children, but may be extended to include health promotion and prevention measures for other groups. The government wants to strengthen the youth health centre, and has therefore launched a new common regulation on health and school health where health promotion and prevention work for children and young people is being promoted. In this proposal, we will specify key tasks to be provided by youth health centres, such as: targeted health studies, individual or group health interviews and parental guidance. The importance of multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral work to strengthen psychosocial work for children and young people will also be highlighted. Youth health centre can be seen as an extended part of the school health service to meet individual needs, while the school health service can strengthen the health promotion work for well-being and good environmental conditions. This regulation will be an important signal to the municipalities on the prioritisation of this service. The draft is due for consultation in ours. Of course, in the case of the provision of health care to children and young people, the fixed medical scheme also includes this group. All over 16 years of age can choose for themselves. If the child is between 12 and 16 years of age, he or she may make a claim for a particular permanent resident with the consent of the parent(s). For children under 16 years of age, the person or persons with parental responsibility chooses permanent leave on behalf of the child. If not selected, the child is placed on the same list as the parent(s). The medical service must and will continue to provide health care to young people. In the Roadmap for Mental Health, funding for health centre and school health services is earmarked at 800 years of work during the planning period. In addition, 260 more annual works will be used to strengthen support contacts and cultural and leisure services in municipalities. It will provide a better opportunity for young people to prevent drug abuse, violence, bullying and other psychological and psychosocial disorders. There must be a politically adopted plan for mental health work in the municipalities. The plan should also address psychosocial interventions for children and young people. Municipalities must have assessed and discussed the objective of 20 pst. of the grants to children and young people. Many municipalities have updated their plans, either as a separate plan or as part of the ordinary plans. According to the escalation plan, municipalities are required to report the activities back. Feedback must show that the planned activity represents an increase in the activity corresponding to the increase in the grant. The preliminary feedback for the last year shows that 13 pst. of the grants to children and young people. It is therefore desirable to focus more strongly on the efforts of children and young people, and we have pointed this out in a circular to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1271	I thank you for the answer, which I also see as a willingness to improve the provision of health care for children and young people. In the Christian People's Party, we have for a long time been concerned about this health offer. The State’s health surveillance also revealed serious deficiencies last summer. In particular, high school students lack a school health service. In this report, the Health Inspectorate also pointed out that municipalities are cutting down on the provision of the school health service, and that some municipalities are also cutting down on health-sistering positions, and then re-establishing them by means of the Pedestrian-Pedestrian-Pedestrian-Pedestrian-Pedestrian-Pedestrian-Pedestrian-Pedagogical-Pedestrian-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical-Pedagogical Programme. In its reply, the Council of State refers to the objective of 20 pst. Of the grants in the psychiatry plan, they will go to children and young people, while he himself says that the reports now showed – if I did not perceive it wrong – 13 pst. Is the Council satisfied that only 13 pst. of the grants to children and young people? What will the Council of State do to the municipalities that leave posts, and then to re-establish them by means of funds from this escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1282	First, let me say that municipalities that do not give priority to preventive health work and that do not give priority to health station activities aimed at children and young people are very poor in relation to the future, and they raise significant problems that they will later be responsible for repairing. It is simply a very short-term policy. Secondly, I have to say that the funds for mental health should be stepped up, and that is not an opportunity to cut at the bottom, as the representative Lyngstad now pointed out. It will be followed up. Thirdly, I would say that I am not satisfied with the proportion of funds going to children and young people. I have made this clear, both to the hospital companies and to the municipalities, and in the circular for 2002, the target is 20 pst. the proportion of children and young people in the means of escalation, and follow-up will also be undertaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1291	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State will stand on its ambitions here, and that he wants to follow this up both with the health companies and in a dialogue with the municipalities. The Council of State also says in its response that through a common regulation, he wants to coordinate the school health services and health centres in what he calls the youth health service, and the perspective that the school health service and these youth health centres can complement each other, I share. But the advantage of the school health service is that it easily reaches many, and it is also easily accessible to young people, precisely because it is located at school, for example. in secondary school. In contrast to high school students, close and good cooperation between municipal health services and school owners, i.e. the county council, is important. And after all, high school students also come from several municipalities. Will the Council of State focus in particular on the need for inter-municipal cooperation, cooperation between municipal health services and municipalities/communities, in the further work on the provision of health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1304	I believe that the starting point is that health centres in general and school health services in particular meet large parts of the population concerned in an important phase of life, being a key to good public health work and preventive health work in Norway. And we have to take care of that. Then we have to ensure a good interaction between the levels, where the owner of the school and the person responsible for the community health service are two different levels. I can assure you that in my further work on this, this overall perspective will be central.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1319	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1326	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Fredrikstad municipality plans 73 housing for people with mental or drug problems. These plans depend entirely on grants from the state mental health escalation plan. Now it turns out that the state grants only five nursing homes in Fredrikstad and only 24 dwellings throughout Eastfold for 2002. Does the Council of State believe that this is a stake in the area of psychiatry and drugs, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the plans of the municipality of Fredrikstad can be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1335	The escalation plan involves a comprehensive commitment to mental health. There is a wide range of instruments used to achieve the objectives of the Storting Decision. One of these is the investment in the construction of 3,400 nursing homes. The framework for commitments to residential care was set at 440 dwellings for the year 2002 in the context of the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. This framework shall be distributed, inter alia: on the basis of population, in a similar way as for the Action Plan for the Elderly. This is the background to the framework of 24 dwellings to Eastfold in 2002. I have been made aware by the county board in Eastfold that Fredrikstad has plans for 82 dwellings during the escalation period. To date, the county doctor has given a clear signal for 26 dwellings funded by means of escrow. In total, Fredrikstad will be able to plan to finance around 45–50 dwellings above the plan, as the overall framework is now in place. So far, Østfold has been promised 70 dwellings. Only Akershus have received a grant for more dwellings than Østfold, with 75. I remember otherwise that the municipalities have a general responsibility to provide housing for those who have special needs, regardless of the plan of escalation. I perceive the representative Øyes's questions so that one looks at housing grants over the escalation plan in connection with the investment in better living conditions for people with drug problems. The escalation plan for mental health is initially not a bet within the area of rubble. However, there are measures in the plan for persons with double diagnosis, which could benefit from housing under the plan of escalation. Municipalities have now been asked to report the total needs of residential care to the target population of the plan by 1 August 2002. In the status review and updating of the escalation plan that I have now started, it is also relevant to assess the care housing framework. I will come back to that in the budget proposal for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1348	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The problem is that Fredrikstad has already come so far in the plans for the 73 homes that they are ready to stick the spade in the ground. Fredrikstad Municipality does not have such a good economy that they can take such a promise on their own, but is entirely dependent on the grant that the State has said they will go in with. It is also the case that the municipality has planned a background in a state requirement. Then there is reason to ask: Why has the council not informed the municipalities that the 2002 care housing framework is set for only 440 homes on a national basis – that is, only a five-fold of what Fredrikstad alone is asking for? When this comes to an end, the Minister of Health must see that this has a ringing effect on the entire psychiatric reform. I ask the Minister for Health: is there no possibility that Fredrikstad can start more than the five homes that it now appears to have in 2002?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1355	I would like to remind you that I have to stick to the mental health effort adopted by the Stortinget, both in terms of crowns, and in terms of this concrete commitment framework. I cannot share commitments beyond what Stortinget has authorized me to do. The commitment framework and the commitment adopted by the Stortinget are fully in line with the proposed budget line by the Stoltenberg Government for 2002. I think it's good to remember that in this debate. Having said that, I would like to say that it is my opinion that through the total overview that we now obtain from the municipalities per. On 1 August, an assessment shall be made of the overall need in relation to the size decided at the time of the first examination of the escalation plan in 1998. I will come back to Stortinget in budgetary terms with an assessment of it. So far, I have to rule on the basis of the decisions taken by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1362	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It has also been expressed – among others. by the representative Odd Holten, who also represents the Christian People’s Party – that the grant from the State depends on the framework of the Husbank for next year. After all, everyone knows that the government has cut into the frames of the House Bank for the current year. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is this appropriation dependent on the appropriations given to the House Bank for the current year? Today, in the spontaneous Question Time, the municipal minister has said that they will come back to the question of whether there is a need to increase the framework of the House Bank in revised form. Is it then possible to resolve the matter if you increase the Husbank's framework for this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1371	The frameworks for commitments to nursing homes in the framework of the Pedestrian Action Plan are their own framework and appropriations, given by the Storting for this purpose. They have to go for that purpose. It is the follow-up to these frameworks that now takes place through the Social and Health Directorate and the county doctors out against the individual municipality. Once we have obtained an overview of the overall needs of municipalities, the size of this investment and the pace of the operation through the ordinary budgetary procedure will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1376	Questions 15 and 16 will be dealt with at the end of the Questionnaire. We then go to question 19, as the questions for questions 17 and 18 are not present in the room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1384	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘In the spontaneous Question Time of 27 February 2002, the Minister of Education said about the school situation in Tromsø, among others.«Most people there would think that the schools are in a terrible condition, but I don't think it has any special purpose that I, as Minister of Education, only spend my time disfellowshipping the community management there, but rather assist them in trying to get to a better school.» What will the Council of State do specifically to improve conditions in the Tromsø schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1393	Municipalities and county councils are responsible for initial training in Norway. The State, for its part, has overall responsibility in relation to legislation and framework conditions for schools. Norwegian school is at the top of the world in terms of resource use. Nevertheless, international studies show that Norwegian students are not on the world stage in knowledge of basic subjects, compared to students from other countries. Comparisons between municipalities in Norway also show that there is not necessarily a link between resource input and results. Therefore, I believe that one of the main challenges in Norwegian school is to improve quality, so that students’ results are proportionate to the resources already deployed. Nevertheless, the municipality of Tromsø, together with the other major cities in Norway, faces particular challenges. The government has already announced that it will promote its own metropolitan message addressing these challenges. To help raise the quality of Norwegian school, I have set up a quality committee to assess the entire initial training. By 1 April 2003, the Committee shall make proposals on a broad range. In parallel with this, the Ministry will look at the organisation and management of initial training as well as funding and regulation. I also work for the schools and their owners to use more of the space of action that actually exists today. I have asked the Learning Centre to set up a bonus school scheme, which is going to be an incentive for the schools to go new ways in improving quality. Through a new practice in approving trials, I will contribute to increased diversity. Changes to the rules on the recognition of private schools may also contribute to this. As everyone knows, the teachers are the school's most important resource. It is therefore important to ensure that the competence of teachers is always good in relation to the challenges of everyday school life. This year the country will use approx. 200-250 million. the continuing training of teachers, in addition to the means the school owners themselves use. In order to ensure access to enough teachers in the future, I have launched a campaign to recruit applicants for teacher training, and I will promote a message about teacher training during the spring. I'm also concerned about the learning environment for the individual. In order to improve the physical working environment in schools, the 2002 budget adopted a commitment to schools which allows the municipal sector to raise interest-free loans totalling DKK 15 billion. In addition, I will shortly promote a proposal for new legal provisions on the working environment of pupils. I have also asked the Learning Centre to draw up a comprehensive plan for the work on the learning and learning environment. As the representative of Konglevoll understands, I am working on a series of actions that, individually and collectively, will help improve the quality of Norwegian school. These measures will, of course, also benefit Tromsø from its work of fulfilling its responsibilities for primary school in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1415	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, although it was not so concrete in relation to what can be done to improve the situation in the Tromsø schools. The most specific government council mentioned was a report on urban issues, and we are looking forward to it coming. It's like I've been told by the Youth Council, that today the Tromsø schools are struggling with temperatures of maybe 12 degrees. It's like the curtains are barking, and it's raining into the classrooms. It's not a work environment that motivates learning. It's important to bet on quality, and it's important to bet on content, but when you hear about students who get hurt in their heads after half a day of school, it doesn't help concentration. When I ask questions about the concrete challenges in the Tromsø schools, it is also because school policy is just about concrete challenges – about the actual school life in each municipality. Based on what the government council said in the spontaneous interview the other day that she wanted to help Tromsø get to a better school, I'm going to repeat the question: what will she do specifically for the Tromsø schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1424	I'm the State Council for the whole education sector throughout the Municipality of Norway, so there's certainly little reason to think there's going to be any special treatment for some particular municipalities. But it is clear that the state provides framework conditions both in terms of resources and a number of other circumstances, which I believe, with all due respect, was quite concrete in my reply to the representative, Kollevoll. When it comes to the resource issue, I refer to the borrowing system that has been adopted, which is just about school construction. As far as I have been told, the municipality of Tromsø has reported a need of approx. 160 million. NOK under this loan scheme, and we will see if it is dimensioned correctly when we get a better overview of the needs of municipalities. As far as the local economy in general is concerned, there is a real growth for 2002 compared with 2001. Since the budget was presented, we have also had a decline in interest rates that improves the finances of municipalities. I specifically pointed out that we want to look at the situation of the big cities, and then I pointed out a number of other measures relating to Tromsø's ability to improve schools. Within a given framework, it will be possible for the municipality to solve a task in different ways, so it is also a responsibility for the municipality of Tromsø to give proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1433	With regard to the loan scheme proposed by the Workers' Party Government and followed by the majority of the population, it is clear that there is an important scheme. When the municipality of Tromsø has reported a need of 160 million. kr, that's what you think you can get as a legitimate share. But the challenges in the municipality of Tromsø are far bigger than that. When the Workers’ Party took over the board in 1999, there was a drop in the school sector only when it came to construction, at NOK 1.2 billion. You're planning on spending $800 million. NOK over four years, which is 20 million. kr each year as part of the school effort a completely necessary grant. That school effort is good, and a lot of the other things that the Council of State addresses, among other things. on teacher training is also good. However, in order to get to a better school both in terms of the physical working environment and also in terms of the psychosocial work environment — a school with good contents and a good follow-up of the students — it is absolutely vital that a good community economy be established. My follow-up question will then be: Does the Council of State agree that strengthening the local economy is the most important general measure for getting a better school? Does the Council of State agree that this is actually a prerequisite in most municipalities? [[The President clubs.]] Will the Council of State promise that on this basis she will fight with beaks and claws within the Government for a strengthening of the municipal economy? It's the only way students, parents and those who work at school can actually believe and feel that the Right holds its election vows for an increased bet in school? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1442	The President must request that the question be placed within the regulatory speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1445	Of course, I fully agree that the local economy and the financial framework are important, and I would like to show that I also believe it has been important to strengthen it, as the local economy has been strengthened in 2002. It can be strengthened by the appropriations provided by the government through government and enlargement, but of course also by having general economic developments such as: So we get a lower interest rate than we would otherwise get. It is of great importance to the municipalities. But if the increase in these frames is the most important thing to get to a good school, I'm in doubt about. I don't think we know the answer to that. There is simply not enough research in Norway. We know very little about what we get out of school, measured in terms of learning outcomes, which must be the most important thing we have to achieve by going to school for 13 years. I personally believe that competent owners, competent employers, competent school management and competent teachers may be the most important source of a better school. Therefore, these are important areas of activity for me – but the resources are of course also important, and I have referred to how we work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1452	Then we go back to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1459	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘Høgskole i Hedmark operates with a diversified culture, a broad study portfolio and a dominance of professional training. The new funding model for the university and higher education sectors has entered into force as a pilot scheme from this year. In the model, which contains several elements, the higher education institution in Hedmark is very poor in the allocation of the basic component and in the total allocation. What can the Council of State do to ensure that the school is not unduly disadvantaged by the new funding model?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1468	The new funding system was introduced from 2002. It consists of a teaching component, a research component and a basic component. On average, institutions receive 26 pst. of the appropriations relating to the results of the educational activities achieved. The question points out that the higher education institution in Hedmark is very poor in the new funding system, both in terms of ‘allocation of the basic component and in the total allocation’. This isn't right. The introduction of a new funding system does not result in any redistribution of budgetary resources in 2002 compared to 2001. In other words, all institutions have the same total appropriations in 2002 as they would if the funding system had not been implemented. The funding system takes into account the continuation of different activities that do not pay off in the performance-based part of the funding system. This applies, inter alia, to: institutions have different costs related to different professional portfolios, districts and several places of study, and it continues to pursue policy priorities in previous years. The new funding system promotes universities and colleges that develop attractive studies and make students succeed in the courses. So the college in Hedmark does not come out badly this year. The basic funding, which is the residual component of the new funding system, will reflect previous policy priorities, but is also determined among others. by reference to the studies carried out by the institution and the number of weights taken in 2000. The financial system provides that all institutions can increase their framework by increasing production without the detriment of other institutions. The financial system, like other components of the quality reform, shall be evaluated after a period of operation. A review of the costs of spring is provided in the light of the institutions' own accounts. These data may provide a basis for a further assessment of the costs associated with the different study programmes. Furthermore, the ministry shall assess the indicators of the results-based research component as reported in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1481	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am probably a little surprised that the Council of State believes that Hedmark does not come out badly – if I understood the Council of State correctly. At least then, the University of Hedmark and the Council of State have totally different perceptions of reality. According to Hedmark University, the school will lose about 20 million dollars. kr. It's very much, and it'll also put the decentralised structure at risk. I understand that the new funding model should stimulate efficiency and production. What we now experience at the Hedmark University is that the school is being punished because in the base year they had a very high weight figure production. I believe that this is quite wrong, and the Council of State believes it is a problem that a lose 20 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Or does the Council of State think that this will have no negative consequences for the University of Hedmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1488	I can't argue that someone thinks they're coming out badly, it might seem to you on a case-by-case basis every year. Whether or not we are in a restructuring of the funding system, one can be dissatisfied with its framework conditions and wish that they were better. So it's the last government that has set up the system of transition to a new funding system. It is clear that such a transition can always be difficult and demanding for all parties, and it has been for the ministry. There has been extensive cooperation with the sector to achieve this. But what was set up from the previous government, and which we have then continued, is that the determination of the basic funding – many believe that the basic funding is an estimated amount, but it is a residual component – is the mechanism itself that ensures that no institution changes the budget level as a direct result of the establishment of a new funding system. I would also like to say that the sector has had quite ample opportunities to influence the data base here. There have been several rounds to get the best possible data base in the calculation model itself. Initially, institutions had a deadline of 1 March 2001 to report the production of weights, but there have since been repeated deadlines and delays which have enabled corrections to be made to the data base. But we're not completely done with this. I have said that we should come back to it, and we are discussing it with the sector. This is also stated in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1497	I thank the Council again for the answer. I think there's something strange about the model, at least the way it now works in practice, and it's that those who were effective when this was calculated are punished on the basis of it. I hear the council say this is to be evaluated, and that's good. But what I'm afraid of is that while the grass grows, the cow dies. My question is: Will the Council of State take an initiative to adjust the model – a model that makes the University of Hedmark and, as far as I can see, the one in Telemark, which also has a scattered structure, very unfortunate in a transitional phase – and do something about it? And will the Council of States also be open to take a meeting with the Hedmark High School to talk about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1504	Let me say that this system now works the same for everyone. The starting position is the balance-of-the-way production in 2000, with a target-to-target correction to avoid rewarding institutions that have had a low target achievement. Then the system will work so that in the future there will be far greater opportunities for institutions to influence their own framework by rewarding good work, and by not rewarding bad work. But it's said in St. prp. No 1 that the Ministry will come back with an assessment of the need for adjustments to the calculation model and the size of the individual components once we have gained experience with the new funding system. That's essentially the answer to the question from the questioner. We will come back to any adjustments, and we will in particular come back to indicators related to the research component. All the work we do on future adjustments, which has been foreseen all along because we need to have a transitional phase here, is in close cooperation with the sector. With this I cannot guarantee that everyone will be satisfied at all times, but this is at least the work that is going on. We also want to look at adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1518	I will ask the following questions: ‘The Academy of Writing Arts in Hordaland has applied for funding for a full-year course in children’s and youth literature for the 2002-2003 academic year and has been refused without a foundation. For the year 2000, they received grants for half-yearly children’s and young people’s literature courses. When they now expand their course, it is to make the final student an attractive study offer within Norway and the Nordic region as the annual dramatic course they offer. How will the Council of State explain such a refusal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1527	This is a case that writes back before my time. In the past, the Academy of Writing Arts in Hordaland has received funds from the State budget chapter 274, state universities, to arrange courses in both drama and literature for children and young people. These allocations do not imply any permanent requirement for support or support for increased activity. Both the University of Telemark and the University of Tromsø also offer authorship. The Ministry has not found it possible to prioritise new courses in this field. I want to show that in recent years, universities and colleges have reduced their capacity to study. New places of study have only gone to priority education such as: health education and training. State funds for higher education are normally allocated to the State institutions of higher education and to private colleges of higher education, and they do not have the Academy of Writing Arts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1536	I'll get the thanks for the answer. I knew what time the rejection was, it wasn't by this state council. But I didn't think there was any party policy in this, so I thought it was important to ask the question. In 1985, the Academy of Writing Arts was one of the first educational institutions in the Nordic region to obtain written education before drama. There has been an important work in Bergen, which has resulted in many former students having established themselves as important writers before drama. It is clear that health education is important, we should not discuss it, but my question is: does the Council of State see it as important to stimulate these genres that are pointed to here, children's and youth literature, and to see that in the future the state can be involved with some means? It is the county municipality that is established in Hordaland, but the KUF has been involved in granting state aid since 1999 for these courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1545	Prioritisation of such measures within my own framework, I think it is only positive, but I cannot promise anything for the future. I have given the reason that was requested in the question, namely that it has been difficult to prioritize new study offers in this area, and that we have also taken into account that these courses do not have the right to an examination. But I will undertake to take part in the responsibility for this rejection. The application was originally rejected in August, but they applied again, and received further rejection in December. So, even if you were to take a positive look at the measure, I can't promise to support the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1550	If we could agree to increase the funding for this educational provision, it is also important – I think it is important to look at things other than health care. – that the state is involved and stimulates what goes on writing. So we have a common responsibility to increase the post office, and I thought that the Council of State should look with mild eyes and more positive on an application, if there is a new application for such a course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1555	At least we can take joint responsibility for the main features of the quality reform for higher education, which I have discussed in the previous question, which also means better incentives for institutions to achieve better framework conditions. Then, within it, they can prioritise and get more even if they are good – at least we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1560	Question 19 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1566	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘From the school year 1999–2000 to 2000–2001 44 primary schools were registered. The closure of schools in the districts has been ongoing for several years and has been intensified in recent years. The result of this development is long school trips for children, a weakening of a well-growth environment and depopulation. Does the Council of State see the seriousness of this development, and what does the Council of State intend to do about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1575	The definition of the school structure is one of the areas left to municipal autonomy and local priority. A good growing-up environment and reasonable school travel are important considerations in this respect. However, it is also important to take into account changes in the housing structure and communication opportunities. I see, of course, that where the school is located can be of great importance in the local environment and to the individual student. It is hardly the case that the individual student is always best served that there is no change in the school structure. However, different considerations need to be weighed against local needs and assumptions. This, in turn, means that at the end of the day it is the vote of the voters in elections that will test whether the local politicians here have given the right priority. I would also like to refer to the presentation of the Government's view on the modernisation of the public sector that the Norman Government has previously held here in Stortinget. In this respect it appeared, among other things: the Government is in favour of introducing a requirement for total cost calculations in the case of public tenders, public investment and major refurbishments of public services. As an example, it was shown that, in some cases, school centralisation could appear to be less topical if the savings for the municipality would be less than the extra time and transport costs incurred by children and parents. This, I think, is a very important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1582	I thank you for your answer. This is not about depriving municipalities of autonomy, it is about ensuring children’s rights in Norway, and the Government is concerned about children’s having a good and safe breeding environment. In Norway today, students have travel distances of up to seven miles every day to and from school. This causes health problems and social problems, while giving rise to major environmental problems. In reply to the representative Synnøve Konglevoll, the Council of State said that she is a State Council for the whole education sector. This also applies to district schools. Will the Council of State initiate a legislative proposal on a maximum travel distance for primary school pupils?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1593	I have no plans to take such an initiative. In general, I don't know if it's the way to go to municipalities if you're going to stimulate a better school, run by bans, bans, laws, etc. I think we can stimulate a better school in other ways. But if this is the case, as the representative Jensen here points out, that the school structure, which is then responsible for local, really leads to health problems, social problems, very expensive transport costs, etc., then this is something that will just be revealed if you are forced to carry out total cost calculations, and those calculations will be able to show, for example, that. that something that pays off for the municipality in isolation is not at all profitable for society. It'll be an incentive to think a little bit wider, maybe also to be a little bit neater to cooperate across the municipal boundaries, so personally, I think it's a good measure to make it visible that decommissioning a school can have social effects that are more harmful than the gain you see isolated for the municipality. I think therefore it is more important to go that way than to go the path of some rigid law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1598	A school in the community I think is a right and part of children's rights in Norway today. I began my question to the Council of State by saying that the closure of primary schools has been intensified in recent years. In the health sector, rules such as: says that everyone is entitled to and entitled to single rooms in nursing homes. In the school sector, very few rules exist. I want the Council of State to look at the possibility of limiting the travel distance for very many children in District Norway today, and look at the right that I believe children have: the right to a school in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1605	The representative Jensen spoke about rights and rights. To the extent that it refers to legal courts and rights, there is a comprehensive supervisory and complaint system in Norwegian school. You can, for example: bring the matter before the National Training Office in the case of legal rights. And measures in general that can stimulate sensible school structures and not unreasonable school structures, of course, I would like to look at. I have mentioned one measure on which the State Council of Norman was involved in its presentation. But when the representative Jensen says there are few rules in the school area, I'm a little surprised. My impression is that there is a high degree of national detail management in the field of school. I wonder whether we should not go the other way, that we should have a little less national governance, but clearer national governance, and at the same time perhaps also stronger supervision. And then we're going to evaluate what is going to be absolute rights and demands in the school system. We will be able to assess that at all times. As I have said, I do not have any plans to propose legislation on a precisely specified route, but I think the requirement for total cost calculations, in which the municipalities should be interested whether it is a claim or not by the State, should be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1617	‘The reduction of funds to the Marine Research Institute has led to a reduction in efforts, inter alia, in multi-racial research. In a situation of increasing populations of sells and whales, this is very unfortunate. What will the Council of State do to ensure that research in this area can be continued and expanded to include marine mammals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1624	The question must be based on a certain degree of misunderstanding, for it is true that the allocation to the Marine Research Institute for 2002 is capped at the Ministry of Fisheries budget. 1020 has a real increase of 27.2 million. kr. So it's far from reducing funds to the Marine Research Institute. Of the real increase, 4 million. go to strengthen precisely resource research. In addition, as of 1 January 2002, the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea took over the tasks of resource research carried out so far in fisheries research in Tromsø. This shall form the basis for establishing a separate department of the Marine Research Institute in Tromsø. Through this, the marine research institute is responsible for managing the overall national effort on resource research. Fisheries research, for its part, has also seen a real increase in its budget for 2002, of which 4.7 million. kr is earmarked for resource research. This increase, together with the increase in the budget of the Marine Research Institute for Resource Research, represents an overall increase in resource research of 8.7 million. in 2002. The main effort in resource research shall be to provide a sound knowledge base for the sustainable harvesting of the marine resource base. Counts shall be made with subsequent population calculations on Greenland selves and poppy bogs in the West ice in 2002. Coastal censuses have been carried out in the past, which form the basis for the extraction. The work on stocking calculations for whales, with emphasis on wave-scaling, shall be continued at the level of the day. Priority shall be given to the distribution of the whale into ecosystems and its interaction with fisheries. Fishery research has gained considerable expertise in marine mammals. Within the new organisation, where this expertise will be incorporated as part of the Marine Research Institute, I see a considerable increase in overall effort in marine mammals research in Norway. Instead of being ashamed of a reduced research effort on marine mammals, which is not the case, I am pleased to say that this research has been given a strengthened basis, and that is both the representative Arnstad and I agree that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1641	The comment on the budgetary situation at the Marine Research Institute and Fisheries Research in Tromsø is what I would call a little discretionary painting, as the expected resource effort in these areas in relation to the budget presented at the beginning of October was cut off by the additional proposal presented at the beginning of November. As far as I remember, approx. Seven million. kr i minus at the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and approx. Three million. kr at Fisheries Research in Tromsø. Having said that, I would say that I think it is positive that the Minister for Fisheries is concerned about this issue. The reductions that came from the new government created some uncertainty about the future efforts in this area. I therefore think it is positive that the minister now says so clearly that he wants a stronger effort in this area. Otherwise, I will take the opportunity to ask for such a new effort not only to take place within a new organisation, but in the future it will also take place through an entirely conscious resource priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1650	Of course, I do not want to see the future budget. The government is going to gather on Halvorsbøle to the weekend, and I'm going to watch myself well to talk about the future in that way. On the other hand, I must guarantee that for the future this is a priority area. For the Government and for me as Minister of Fisheries, there is a desire for increased efforts and more resources related to stock research, precisely because we need to see things in an ecosystem context. Ecosystem management is at the root of the policy that has been pursued, and we see that both of the clear priorities in the budget and of the efforts we are making to increase coastal off-take within the recommendations that are there. We've increased the extraction of whales within the regime laid down by the IWC. In this way, we have demonstrated that we are willing to go the way that is necessary to put this in context – then we need increased knowledge of complex relationships – and we have done so through the budget. It is not right to present it as if the cut on e.g. Fishing research in Tromsø is going beyond multi-stakeholder research. It's a real growth that's solid, and I'm happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1657	I find that the Minister for Fisheries and I seem to agree on the description of the need for more intensive research in this field, especially at a time when we see that there are increasing populations of both seals and whales. – Then we get back to the future budgetary discussions when the Minister of Fisheries and the rest of the Government have been on Halvorsbøle and the Stortinget again gets budgetary questions to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1662	I can confirm that the draft budget that will come for next year will be presented in the Grand Duchy, and then we shall discuss these matters!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1667	That was comforting!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1674	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Some municipalities are currently putting their plans on the ice, with the resulting increase in costs, pending clarification from government and enlargement when it comes to the proper completion of the action plan for the care of the elderly. Others have offered the most nurturing solutions; they have no choice but to continue their development without per. date of award. The Council of State can confirm that the municipalities that do not currently have full day care and care for 25 pst. by their older people over 80 years of age, will they receive an allowance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1683	The government's objective, as expressed in the Sem Declaration, is to complete the ageing plan in order to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget in terms of the coverage, exclusiveness and modernisation of the old building stock. Following the enlargement of the framework for the action plan of 4 000 posts, the budget was allocated to 8 200 units in 2002. The government has strengthened the government's governance of the funds granted through the old age plan, to ensure that the money goes to the municipalities with the worst coverage, and that the care and care of luck are given priority in the allocation. Then there remains a pile of applications from the municipalities for which there is no room within the undertaking framework set by Stortinget. The government is now working to draw up a thorough overview of what remains in relation to the objectives set by the Stortinget when already approved construction projects have been completed. In addition, about half of the nursing homes and homes that were raised with funds from the elderly are under construction. The government will bring a case to the Stortinget this spring on the completion of the retirement plan, where we will also establish the status and evaluate the plan in relation to the objectives set by the Stortinget for the retirement plan. The question of a further extension of the undertaking framework will be addressed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1694	The central party's view is that the municipalities which have developed their plans in consultation with the House Bank, the county council and the county board shall have a State grant. Everything else is both unfair and unacceptable. It's also self-responsive, because there's government agencies here that have given advice along the way. Many municipalities have changed their plans because the House Bank, the county council and the county board have contributed to the planning itself. We understand a matter of our own, which we think should contain both an overview of the need to register, the department's assessment, the department's proposals and also a plan for recruiting the necessary personnel, and not least funding and follow-up. But it is now about providing the municipalities with security, so that those currently in the process can continue and not put their plans aside pending a new signal. In fact, it's a worthy end to the old age plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1701	I am very pleased that the representative Meltveit Kleppa is just as concerned about the completion of the retirement plan as I am. What is important, and which I also expect the representative, Mr Kleppa, to agree, is that it is the framework adopted by the Stortinge, which is now in distribution. There we have a strict priority. It is important that we keep to the starting point of the ageing plan, which is the goal for it. And that is then a priority from our side in relation to each state, and it is also a strict priority further from the county to the projects and municipalities that are applying for it. That is the starting point of the adopted framework. Then we're in the process of evaluating the applications that I mentioned. There are still the same objectives and criteria, namely that there should be the care and care coverage of 25 pst. of the more than 80 years of the whole year, as well as the exclusiveness and modernisation, which many municipalities also need. We bring a case on this to Stortinget in the spring, and then the representative Meltveit Kleppa is given the opportunity to both assess the matter and participate in the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1710	The Council of State referred to the targets that were set in its time. The first time we saw this was in St. Report. No 50 for 1996-97, and then coverage was 25 pst. only one of several elements, but very important, as well as something that the Storting later enhanced. I have gone into and looked at the situation in my own country, where this last division led to 539 units allocated and 634 waiting. Stavanger and Sandnes are two of several municipalities that in this round are close to meeting this coverage. Other municipalities have their heaviest caregiving again because they've sucked for conversion osb. What makes it impossible for the Council of State itself, which has the primary responsibility for organising a case for the Storting, to say that the coverage of all-day care and care for 25 pst. out of 80 years should be the result of all municipalities? If we don't expand, we're also going to come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1717	The objective of coverage of day care services for 25 p.m. of which over 80 years are fixed. But I also expect the representative to be as busy as I signed that it is the framework that Stortinget has given, we shall stay within. As I said, it gives rise to the matter of completing the aging plan that we are going to bring to the Spring Storting, to look at how we will be able to complete it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1724	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1731	This question, from Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Industry who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1734	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘An official sample has proposed the removal of food emergency stocks such as cereals, flour and sugar in North Norway. Today, these stocks cover 10 months of consumption, while the sample considers that a stock of 10 days of consumption is sufficient and that the country can transfer responsibility for this to the retail trade. Does the State Council consider the proposed scheme to be sound?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1743	The starting point for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture of the previous Bondevik government to set up a sample to look at the supply of groceries in North Norway was a recognition that today’s preparedness is still too much based on the threat picture of the cold war. As the threat to security policy is changing, our response policy must do the same. The prerequisites for emergency work have also been changed by changing the logistic patterns and industrial structure of primary industries, the processing industry and the daily food industry. The committee therefore has, among other things: assessed the need for the emergency storage facilities of flour and cereals for a total of 10 months of consumption and of sugar for 30 days of consumption as addressed by the representative Arnesen. The recommendations of the project team are a combination of actions designed to provide robustness in the normal logistics structure, resource building plans during the alert period before a possible invasion attack and stock reduction adapted to previous crisis scenarios and industrial structures. The project report is now being consulted by interested parties. The Ministry of Justice will shortly be presenting a major communication on social security. I want to focus on the consultation opinions and the treatment of the Social Security Biggest Communication before taking a final position on the follow-up to the sample report, to which the representative referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1752	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to say that the stocks that are in the continent are well dispersed and take into account the large distances that are up there. There can be no doubt that an area with such a large distance and such a harsh climate is quite vulnerable in a crisis situation. I think not only of threats of invasion and war, but of other crisis situations that may arise in a part of the country with such distances. I therefore regard these stocks as a good insurance for the population and do not think that the savings you want to achieve are in proportion to the uncertainty that is now being created in people. So I'm glad that the Council of State will evaluate this carefully in the future. But I would like to ask one more time: if you are going to have such emergency stores, could it be right to leave to the grocery store to have such a form of preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1759	So, as I said, the sample has issued a report, and I assume that the people in this sample were familiar with what the representative points out, about the distances in North Norway, about the climate and about all the local conditions, and of course the change that has been in the structure regarding the wholesale and retail stages. There is no doubt that the preparedness in general in previous times was largely based on the fact that we had many wholesalers. Now the logistics systems are so that the goods are mostly on the road. I have a history in business, in the fishing industry. I remember very well when, as a youth, I drove around the East with trailers and delivered to 20-30 independent wholesalers. Now it's not a warehouse. Now you deliver directly to the store. That's one of the things that's the back carpet that we're living with. The selection work will be somewhat reflected in the message from the Minister of Justice. Of course, the relevant objections raised by all the hearing bodies should be borne in mind when one to the seventh is going to promote a case in this regard. At least we agree that preparedness must be reliable for the population it is set to serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1768	I feel some relief at what the Council of State says. But I registered in the newspaper Nordlys for a time ago that the head of the Vulnerability Committee, Kåre Willoch, expressed concern if the stocks were to be completely closed and there was only to be a supply for ten days. So I ask the Council of State to follow this carefully and take into account the input that comes from the continent itself. It knows best where the shoe prints, which has it on, and which lives in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1773	At least I can assure you that all relevant input and concerns you may have in the region will be well taken care of. That even Kåre Willoch is concerned, is in itself suitable for concern. So also, of course, I'm going to include that input in the review.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1778	We're going to question 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1784	‘Many of the companies in the Telenor Group have announced extensive closure of locations with the following loss of employment for employees. Employee organisations claim that Telenor pursues social dumping. It is done by building up parallel companies and adding the assignments to them with lower pay and contract terms, then bringing down the other. What employer policy does the Council of State consider that Telenor should be the responsibility of a majority state-owned group, and what will the Council of State do to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1791	I am aware that Telenor is in the process of implementing efficiency measures in the field of information and customer service in order to adapt to market demand. These measures will reduce the number of locations and reduce the number of sites in the establishment. It is up to the management and management of the company to adopt such measures. This is not a matter that comes up at the general meeting. Telenor has informed that manning reductions are carried out under statutory and concluded agreements. All employees affected by the conversions will be offered work at the locations operated in Telenor. Employees who are not willing to move will be helped to obtain alternative work within or outside the group. In addition, take-off incentive schemes will be offered. It is a prerequisite for companies in their employer policy to comply with the rules and agreements in force in this area. Based on the information I have received from Telenor, I assume that this is also the case in this case. And to underline: I assume that the employer policy which implies that you do not accept the demand for social dumping applies to all companies, whether the state has ownership or not. I must also remind you that Telenor is a listed company, and that structural changes, including the areas in which you should bet on and not bet on etc., and the implications it has for the employees, are a matter of company rather than a matter of ownership. That means that I do not see it as relevant to exercise influence through the ownership role in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1806	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the part of the answer where the Minister of Industry stresses that Telenor is obliged to follow up the contract work in the labour market. The reorganisations that have been carried out here particularly affect women’s jobs – women aged 45 and more, whom I am informed about, who have difficulties in finding other jobs, perhaps especially in relation to old age, and who also have problems moving around. I would like to draw attention to an agreement that the previous government made with the employee organisations on 3 October 2001, an agreement on a more inclusive working life for the benefit of individual workers, society and businesses. The aim is to reduce sick leave and disability, to increase the number of workers with disabilities at work and to increase their retirement age. It also states that the parties have a particular responsibility in relation to an awareness-raising effort to reverse developments. It is clear to me that what has happened in the recent Telenor Group is contrary to the agreement of the government with the employees' organisations. So my question to the minister is: does he agree that this agreement will apply to the Telenor group, as to other state companies, and that management and boards have a responsibility to follow up this agreement in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1817	I'm assuming that no company is exempt from the intentional agreement referred to here, from October 3rd, a telenor either. Telenors must deal with such contracts in the exercise of their employer's responsibilities, but above all with the law provided for in this Chamber and with the agreements between the parties. I have not received any evidence from any team that this is not the case. I have no indication that Telenor has broken any agreements relating to the structural change in the company. That this is a difficult situation for the individuals involved in the disappearance of the workplace, I have no problem imagining. But I have the impression that Norwegian business, including Telenor, is doing what is possible within an economically acceptable framework, to alleviate the problems that arise in that context. I have the impression that Telenor is also taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1826	The government is coming, we've been signaled, with a message of state ownership, state activity, within the business community. Will the Government in this Communication also discuss this aspect of state ownership, namely employer policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1831	The notification submitted is not primarily a communication on the behaviour of employees and employers in individual companies in relation to this type of detail. What should apply to employees of rights and obligations in this country is determined in my view by two factors: one is the law in force here, which is a restriction on what the parties to the agreement can negotiate until or from, and the other is the fact that they are negotiating within the space of action that exists. In my opinion, it would not be natural for the State that owns a ownership policy to reflect the employer's policy in areas where we have small or larger holdings. The country's own employer policy is generally known, but it applies to those who are employed in the country, and it would not be natural, in my opinion, to develop an employer policy that should apply particularly in those companies where we have ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1841	This question, from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1844	I have the following questions to our Minister for Transport, on behalf of Kenneth Svendsen: ‘According to VG on 20 February d.o.b. Considers the Road Directorate as a future solution to introduce variable speed limits, which are set at 50 km/h on E6 for some periods through Eastfold. The background for this is that growth in traffic through Eastfold has been far greater than the majority of the population in the European Union has foreseen. The Council of State will promote immediate action, including: by implementing the development of a new quadruple road earlier than planned?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1853	I would first like to point out that it is not right for the Directorate of Road to consider establishing a system of variable speed limits down to 50 km/h on the E6 through Østfold. I am very aware that the traffic growth in E6 in Eastfold is higher than in most other road sections of the country. Road levels are too low in relation to traffic loads, traffic accident trends are very worrying and accident rates are alarmingly high. As I have stated on several occasions, I will give high priority to providing for the development of E6. As I have also indicated earlier, I will therefore come back to Stortinget with a proposal to support the development of E6 through Østfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1862	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was uplifting to hear that you don't want to introduce variable speed limits, because with the queues we have in Eastfold this summer, the car passes at Svinesund may be over 30,000 a day, and then I'm afraid it would have corked completely. But then to these obligatory statements to come back to the Storting: the Council of State was in Eastfold on 4 December and made binding statements. The same happened in a letter to the employees of the company Kynningsrud AS in Østfold, who lost two of their employees in a road accident on the E6 road. The Prime Minister was in Eastfold last Saturday at the County Council meeting of the Christian People's Party, and he also made binding statements. Now it's been quite a while since December 4th, and the people of Eastfold and those who run this road are very interested to know when proposals for appropriations come, and at what rate the expansion of the four-field motorway on the E6 will be delayed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1875	As I pointed out in my reply, I will come back to the Stortinget with a proposal on this expenditure, and how it will be financed. When we experience such an accident rate and such an accident development as we do at E6 in Eastfold, it is important to think about lasting solutions as well as immediate action. At all times, immediate action is assessed and immediate action will be taken where the situation is most precarious. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the need for us to think about sustainable solutions, not just immediate action, and for me it is important to find a lasting solution in the case of E6 in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1880	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, and I record that she did not answer my question: when and at what rate you want to support the development. After all, the size has taken a step forward in the road map, so the problem we are talking about here creates a great deal of uncertainty. When the Council of State was in Eastfold on 4 December, she said – I believe the media – that expansion should take place at the same rate as in Sweden, which plans to be completed until Svinesund in 2007, but due to the regulatory problem, a maximum rate of expansion will mean full expansion of E6 to Svinesund in 2009. We know that if the appropriations don't come, finished parcels that are ready for expansion will not get a continuous expansion rate. It will increase costs and the burden on all those who have to pay tolls through Eastfold. Will the necessary appropriations be made so that the E6 quadruple motorway can be completed in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1887	When I have said that we want the extension of the E6 to be completed, it is that this expansion should take place faster than that contained in the Transport Plan. That's exactly what's in the concept of insurance. As I have said before, I will come back to Stortinget with the question of how to get this done. We'll get back to it, and that's why I want to ask for understanding that I can't go into it more closely. But I have a goal that we'll be able to do it as quickly as possible, that is. there must be a link between planning that has been completed and what is physically possible to achieve for the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1899	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘Friendly organisations, such as the Red Cross Help Corps, form an important part of the mountain rescue preparedness. In this way, internal communication is a necessary hub. For this purpose, the Postal and Telecommunications Authority charges a fee of NOK 350000 per person. years. Only in Buskerud will this be NOK 90 000. Is the Council of State right for organisations based on voluntary work to pay a fee to the State to carry out an important emergency work for most people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1908	The activities of postal and telecommunications regulators shall be self-financed by decisions taken in the Storting, as demonstrated by the intended purpose of the corresponding fee regulation. The supervisory fees shall be cost-related. The calculation of fees shall be based on supervisory costs in the relevant field of action. If supervision exempts some operators/users from the obligation to pay a fee, other actors/users will have to finance those costs. This would clearly be contrary to the basic principle of self-financing on which supervision is based. In the context of the entry into force of a new fee regulation in 2000, the Postal and Telecommunications Authority reduced the fee rates for the type of equipment used by the Red Cross by approx. 15 pst. In addition, postal and telecommunications supervision is working on a simplification scheme for frequency management in the area concerned, which could lead to further reductions in these charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1917	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I've heard about the simplification that's going on, but I still want to follow up with some more questions. So far, we have ended the UN year of volunteering, the year that would give voluntary work more attention. The Auxiliary Corps is based only on voluntary, non-remunerated persons, where investments in scooters, boilers and other equipment require both soldering, bingo, cacolottery and begging. It seems a little motivating first to give supplements, as the organizations get, and then to take it back. It's going to be giving with one hand and taking with the other. Could the Council of State consider participating in solutions in other ways? Does the Council of State understand the frustration of those in the relief corps who are often called to life as an effort, no matter what the weather? Not exactly on sunny days the need for their help is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1926	I would most strongly like to express my understanding of the importance of the activity of such non-governmental organisations. However, a bill for fees has been adopted for this activity of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority, and it is a scheme that the Stortinge has also had the opportunity to deal with. Those provisions are there and it is not such that only the Red Cross is subject to these rules. They all apply, and as long as those rules are there, Red Cross will also have to pay this fee. At the same time, I would like to stress that as long as there are simplifications that make it possible to lower the fees for such organisations as the Red Cross, I think it is important that we find such solutions. I am informed that the Post and Telecommunications Authority is looking at today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1931	I thank you again for your answer. I could imagine giving the council a handshake from the Labour Party's side when it's a little bit of innovation. We are for our part in the think-tank with regard to the use of the tipping agents. We see things in time that require one to stimulate more physical birth, including outdoor life. Greater activity creates the need for those who set up when we need them, i.e. the help crews and other similar organisations, to keep their belongings without the Post and Telecommunications Authority charging so high that the use of the line can be lost, i.e. a set organisation and the use of telecommunications. It'll kind of be putting this in reverse. Spleis and Dukgnad there was another Left Council that had as its salsa argument in the Bondevik I government, and people bit on. Could the Council of State think of compensating for these expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1936	Grants are given to such organisations each year, and in the run-up then, of course, it may be relevant, and will be appropriate, to take account of this kind of expenditure that the organisations have. Now it is part of the frequency management that requires fees to be paid to the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. It would be wrong for me here and now to give individual organisations the opportunity to get away from those fees, while others have to have them. Non-discrimination is important in relation to the concrete challenge we face in the operation of postal and telecommunications supervision. Then, in the annual budgets, we get back to how to deal with grants to individual voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1944	I would also like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The Bratsberg railway in Telemark was reopened for traffic on 13 August 2001. The assumption was that the track should be operated and that the operation should be evaluated. The NSB has now announced a reduction in scheduled hours from June 2002. Has the evaluation been carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1953	In the context of the change of route from 16 June 2002, the NSB has notified the Ministry of Transport that it will be necessary to reduce the route production underlying the state purchase of passenger services in 2002 due to a very difficult driver situation. The need to reduce regular production in the last six months includes, among other things: the connection with the start-up of deliveries of 36 new near-traffic sets, so that drivers must be removed from traffic in order to be trained on the new material. In addition, the NSB has had far greater take-offs of drivers in lower age groups than expected. As I'm familiar with it, the NSB is currently approximately missing. 40 train drivers in relation to the need to carry out current production satisfactorily. In its draft change of route NSB proposed that the train offer at Bratsbergbanen be maintained on Monday-Friday, while the train offer on Saturdays is reduced from two to one departure and Sundays from three to two departures. All lost take-offs will be replaced by taxis or buses. Following the round of Telemark County Council consultations, the NSB has found room for extending the train offer with a take-off trip Notodden-Nordgutu Monday to Friday in order to avoid a direct connection between Skien and Porsgrund. The train offer on the Bratsberg Railway is closely followed up and has a good traffic development. Preliminary analyses suggest that the transition possibilities to the Sørlandsbanen have been of less importance than previously assumed. The NSB therefore proposes to make some adjustments in relation to the new take-offs so as to give priority to a rapid link between Notodden and Grenland, rather than to a long standing on Nordagutu to wait for trains on the southern runway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1964	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is a reality that the route offer will be reduced, and I still feel a little worried about the future operation on the Bratsberg Railway. It has been very short since 13 August 2001, and it was also known at the time that we had a difficult situation with regard to drivers. As we perceived it, it was a clear premise when opening up the Bratsberg Railway that the traffic on the track was to be evaluated after some time, and in order to evaluate the traffic base, at least in my opinion, it is a premise that you have a real traffic base to evaluate. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1969	Yes, it's important that we have something to evaluate when we're going to evaluate – that's absolutely right. And the most important thing is that it's a good offer to the passengers who want to travel on this route. When we have the precarious situation that we have with regard to drivers, we have to dispose of these resources in a good way, and that is what we mean by the arrangement that the NSB now has. It is important that we continue a good offer for those passengers who want to travel on that route. Then we're going to carry out an evaluation when the time comes, as suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1974	I thank you again for the answer, but I'm still a little worried, because the Council of State doesn't put any evidence on the table as to why the NSB has made that assessment, other than that the driver's situation is problematic, as it has been for a long time. I think that's how that section of the track was long out of operation. And of course, it will take some time for passengers to get good travel habits on the route again, even though it's really going pretty well. Can I expect the Council of State to follow the Bratsberg track with the argus eyes, so that we can ensure the operation of this section of the track in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1981	I can assure you that the Minister for Transport will keep an eye on all the transport challenges we have across the country, including those related to the Bratsberg Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1990	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Directorate of Road will allow combinations of vehicles of 25,25 metres in length and weighing 60 tonnes. All EU Member States, with the exception of Sweden and Finland, have said no to such vehicle trains based on road safety and the environment. These trails will compete on the same routes as the railway. Will the Council of State emphasise the importance of road safety, the environment and the possibilities of transition from road freight to rail in its consideration of the proposals of the Directorate of Road, and therefore say no to vehicle trains 25 metres long?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e1999	The National Transport Plan Report warned that the Road Directorate would carry out a consultation on whether to allow and facilitate vehicle trains up to 25,25 metres in length over all or part of the Norwegian road network. The handling of the case has taken a long time. I have now requested that the Road Directorate's assessment and recommendation be submitted to the Ministry of Transport before Easter. I don't want to prejudge the department's treatment. However, I can assure you that road safety, the environment and the distribution of freight between different modes of transport are factors that will be given priority in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2008	In the light of the way the Directorate-General for Road Transport deals with this matter, there is a report from the Institute for Transport Economics which has some strange conclusion that this is beneficial to the environment. The way they've been able to figure it out is to ignore the fact that road traffic will gain competitiveness in relation to the railway, and I don't see any transition from goods by rail to goods by road. We know that if we get all the freight traffic out on the railways in Norway, it will lead to 400,000 new trailer transports every year. Is the Council of State planning to obtain professional documents other than the TØI report on the basis of which the Directorate of Roads is to be treated in order to assess the environmental impact of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2015	As I said in my answer, I haven't got the tape yet, and I actually don't know what is going to be the Road Directorate's recommendation. But it is quite clear that when this is available on my table, I will look at all the hearing opinions and also take inward all the relevant assessments of the case, whether they are in conjunction with the hearing opinions that are there or whether they come in later on in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2020	Now we see that the NSB on several sections loses competition with goods in relation to roads. In the context of the collective notification, the Council of State intends to make proposals for action on the freight side too, so that the competitiveness of rail on freight, for example: on the route from Grenland to Oslo, increasing, and is the Council willing to assess the road charge in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2025	I think this is a completely new question, which I would like to make some assessments of, but I do not think this is an additional question in relation to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2034	Yes, there will be many questions for the Minister of Transport! I have the following questions: ‘The entry shall, under the terms of the concession, distribute mail to the immediate vicinity of where people live, at least three times a week, except where ‘special geographical conditions indicate otherwise’. Today, this is interpreted as less than three households per person. km of road. However, the concession rules do not state that long roads or scattered settlements themselves are sufficient grounds for exemption. What will the Council of State do to tighten up the liberal interpretation of the concession terms by the Post, such as: do the inhabitants of Florence frustrate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2043	The requirements set out in the concession to the Post concerning the place of delivery and the frequency of delivery shall be met. In the case of place of delivery, the item shall be delivered to the postal address of all recipients, i.e.: place of residence/physical address. The item may, in exceptional cases, deliver the item elsewhere. The postal and postal and telecommunications authorities have developed guidelines to clarify the requirements resulting from the concession relating to the location of mailboxes. According to these guidelines, fewer than three households are on average per. kilometres of road such a special case giving rise to derogations from the general rule. In scattered sections, the mail may in these cases be delivered in mailboxes located more than 250 metres from the household. The postal and telecommunications authorities have stated that, in the light of the Post Office’s reports, there does not appear to be significantly more households now than before having a distance of more than 250 metres to their mailbox. In the case of a delivery frequency, the item shall be delivered at least three times a week. However, postal and telecommunications supervision may grant exemptions from this requirement where it is ‘indispensable’ or ‘unreasonably costly’. The post and supervision are currently in contact with a view to reaching a unified and practical manageable understanding of what is to be regarded as impossible and unreasonablely costly. The post has stated that in 2001 there were only 13 of the country’s household members who were given mail less than three times per. week. 99.94 pst. of all households, the entry is for six days a week. I therefore find it difficult to characterise as liberal the Posten's practice of the concession terms in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2057	Some of us think it's liberal. Only in the Nord-Trøndelag are 70 households affected by this. I would quote Pauline and Bård Kringen in Flornes, which I referred to earlier, who are engaged in pig meat production, forestry, hunting and fishing rentals, and consulting and publishing. They write the following: ‘Our main problem for continued operation is the Post. Two years ago, the post office ended with mail distribution to our address, while we lost the Landpost courier service. Mail must be picked up well two km away, parcels two miles away and handing in magazines that we publish, three miles away.» Does not the Council of State consider that the type of framework conditions is demanding if you are trying to obtain business activity in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2067	The item itself is responsible for fulfilling the social obligations of the country as a whole and for finding good, effective solutions for postal services in individual areas. As is known, postal and telecommunications supervision is the control of compliance with the concession requirements. I am confident that the supervision will follow that the Post fulfils these concession requirements that are linked to the delivery of mail, also in scattered sections, and also in the area that this is about. In the case of Flornes, the post office has informed us that there are four of them. 80 households with a delivery post office located according to the rules for special cases. Furthermore, four households have a turnover of less than six days per person. week. These are distributed every two days. The post says that there are very few complaints about the distribution offer in Flornes. It therefore seems that there is an overwhelming majority, including in Florence, who are satisfied with the Posten's distribution offer. I am aware that there is a specific case where the question of mailbox location has been assessed by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. The conclusion of the supervision is that there was no breach of the concession terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2074	I think the Minister of Transport is quite right that they are all, most of them satisfied with the Post. I think that's right. But there are also people who have settled in such a way that they are not satisfied, and my question to the Council of State at the end is: Is it relevant to change the concession law, or perhaps it is more right to say the concession rules, to tighten up the legislation so that it becomes even clearer what you want? In other words, no matter where you live in the country, you have to get the mail to your home within the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2079	There is no current issue of changing the concession as it is today. However, it is important that we manage to find good solutions, so that the inhabitants of this country feel that they have a postal offer that is reasonable in relation to the requirements set by the concession. The concession is precisely designed in such a way that we have such an offer to take care of the country's citizens, to the extent that it is proper to operate the Post. That is why we also have the Post and Telecommunications Authority that makes their assessments of whether the concession is satisfied. As I said, the feedback we've received is that it's happening here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2088	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘It has recently been a feature of the costs associated with the construction of relatively small-traffic tunnels, type T-8. What are the State Councils' assessments of the costs associated with such tunnels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2097	No precise answer to the question can be given as costs will depend on many factors. Examples of such conditions are: The geological ratio tunnel must be secured against water and the frost length of the tunnel has an impact on the costs of technical installations such as ventilation, emergency equipment, etc. Provided that the mountain is good and there are no excessive water leaks, a tunnel of that category could normally be built for approximately NOK 40000 per. running meters. In other cases, if the mountain is poor and there is a lot of water leakage, costs can quickly reach NOK 50000-65000 per year. running meters. If a more exact cost figure is to be reported, a number of studies must be carried out on mountains and leakage conditions at the site concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2118	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The size has said several times that to save landscapes and nature it may be desirable to choose tunnel solutions in front of the road today. It has been followed up in a number of very concrete projects by one who has allowed money to go to the tunnel. I ask myself a question when the Council of State says it should cost so much. I have information that relatively recently they have said that NOK 30 000 to NOK 35000 is one thing to expect. When you go back and look at some of the last completed projects, the price level is barely enough. I wonder what the aim is to say that it costs more than that, because experience shows that average prices are different from what the Council says.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2125	It is, of course, desirable for me to be able to decide that costs should be lower, but that is not what they are. In terms of tunnel costs, I put my trust in the specialist who makes calculations of what costs will be in different tunnel solutions. That's knowledge I have to trust when I get different input. The costs I mentioned in my answer are the numbers I have received from the professional community on what the costs of such tunnels are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2130	I thank you again for your answer. I also trust the specialist, but the numbers I have, I also have the specialist. I wonder why it's going so far if one wants one to take environmental and landscape protection, and I think it's positive that it's being built cheaply. A change, a growth in the cost of 20-30 pst., given that there are no special problems, right to me a lot. In addition, it is claimed that the more private entrepreneurs we get in, the cheaper it is. Now it is to be seen, but will the Council of State work for tunnel solutions to be as cheap as possible so that we can take care of things other than the emergence, and then do I believe nature and landscape protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2139	You often talk about moving mountains. Now I can neither move mountains nor change mountains, so I have little opportunity to change the costs of building tunnels. But of course it's a goal for me that we can build these as cheaply as possible. I think the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt and I agree that it is important to find good environmental solutions. Then the tunnel is an interesting alternative to look at. Of course, I want reasonable and good solutions to be found, but also safe solutions to be found. I'm willing to go many rounds to find the most reasonable solutions, but I also want to have a guarantee that they are good and secure the solutions we need. Unfortunately, it is often the case that we experience cost excesses. So in many contexts, it might be better to be realistic when making cost estimates than being too optimistic, even though we would have liked to have built many new projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2159	This question is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2166	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘The Minister of the Council and of the Regions has played a number of games about changes in Norwegian asylum and refugee policy. Examples of this are the use of unhelpful money that pressure to get countries to accept asylum seekers Norway has rejected, and the cessation of benefits for living for all asylum seekers with rejection. The consequences of the change are not known. None of the cases have been dealt with in Stortinget and certainly not in the Government either. Does the Council of State consider that such changes can be implemented without the approval of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2175	We are now in a situation where very many asylum seekers come to Norway. In 2001, almost 15 000 people applied for asylum in Norway. This means an increase of about 7 000 people from 2000. Looks like there'll be even more this year. The forecasts now suggest 18 000 asylum seekers. About 70 pst. of those who applied for asylum in Norway last year come from Central and Eastern Europe, including Russia and Ukraine. According to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, currently up to 40 pst. of the asylum applications obviously groundless and dealt with in accordance with simplified procedures. So, in my view, the situation is dramatic, and there is a need to do something. When a person has been refused an application for asylum, he/she is obliged to leave the country voluntarily. The law of the law of the law of the country of the foreign national shall, if necessary, enforce the person concerned only by coercion. In some cases, foreigners remain in the country despite being denied permission to stay here. However, most people can travel on a voluntary basis. This currently applies to a large number of people living in state receptions. Compared to e.g. Sweden has far fewer who travel voluntarily from our country. I can see no reason why these people should have a full offer in reception. I would therefore like to put in place a system as soon as possible where those who have received a refusal to apply for asylum do not receive cash regulations from the time when the decision is final and the expiry date has expired. The Directorate has been asked to make a proposal on how this could be implemented. The changes shall mark a distinction, but we shall take the necessary humanitarian considerations into account. I believe that such changes can be made without the approval of the Storting. The money regulations have never been dealt with in Stortinget. I think a lot of people are surprised that we are actually paying out money to stay for people who are staying illegally in Norway. With regard to the cases where the home Member State authorities lay down the conditions for repatriation of their own citizens, I believe that all countries have an obligation to accept their own citizens, even if they do not want to return to their country of origin. I therefore believe that this should be the subject of the political dialogue with countries of cooperation, where appropriate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Storting earlier, in St.meld. No 6 for 2000-2001, was informed of the desirability of seeing asylum and return issues in the context of aid policy instruments. In dealing with this, there was no one in Stortinget who had objections to this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2198	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State says that the situation is dramatic, and that there is a need to do something. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. That is why we are amazed that the Council of State is choosing such a policy rather than taking matters up with the Storting and clarifying the necessary measures. I think the government is well served that there is as broad a consensus as possible about the measures that are now taking place. It is also necessary for the Storting to be aware that the consequences have been identified and the consequences. We took a very detailed look at this when we dealt with the news of asylum and refugee policy in our own country. The conversion that has now been notified is a significantly larger change than many of the issues dealt with in the wholesale notification. We therefore believe that the matter should have been brought to Stortinget. Having said that, I would like to ask you how you have thought about the consequences of this, for example. in the case of Kurds with a refusal. In discussions with the Council of State political advisers, I have met with a line of argument that it is registered approx. 1,400 movements of Kurds or other persons with Norwegian travel documents, who have entered Iraq, and that there should be some kind of general justification that it is not dangerous to enter. Does the Council know that there are the same persons who are now denied a residence, who have used Norwegian travel documents and travelled to their home country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2209	Let me first underline that we have two types of people when it comes to voluntary returns. We have the kind of people who can simply be returned by us, even compulsorily, but who still stay here until the police come and pick them up. It is exceptional for Norway that almost no one leaves here on a voluntary basis, but that we must use the police to send out absolutely everyone. Then there is a group of people who are in Norway who can be sent back, or who can voluntarily go back, but who we can't get back with coercion at all. Of that group, some are residents. Some of those people have a work permit and are in work. I agree that you probably have to differentiate between these two groups at the beginning. My main goal is to get more people to travel voluntarily by those who can travel voluntarily. And the fact that they don't receive any more money will be the most important signal to say that now it's actually the end of the time you can be in Norway and use our asylum institution to be here. What we want to do is to link this with the so-called new concept of reception that is now being prepared, where those who have received a refusal are to receive special receptions, where you do not want to have your own household, but actually serve food, so that the monetary benefits are stopped, but that it will still be taken into account that you will be able to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2216	I hear what the Council of State is saying now, and it's a little sad that you didn't get that information when these releases came, and that you didn't do it in advance, until you went out with it, because this creates a lot of uncertainty. As I said, there is no disagreement about the principle that once you have received a rejection, you should travel. Norwegian authorities may also have to use far tougher instruments than they do today. But it's clear that there's a big worry, not least about how it's going to turn out in relation to unwanted crime if you take money from people, who will then be left without the opportunity to support themselves. But then to the last point, where the Council of State has also proposed that aid should now be used to send asylum seekers home. I have to say that for the SV part, we calculated that the comment in the Storing Message was about the use of ODA-approved funds, which SV has reserved for a long time. Can the Council of States say that this is the theme of the big news, and that the big news signaled to go far beyond this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2223	What is stated in the big message, which SV has not commented on, is that it is desirable to look at the issue of asylum and return in the context of foreign and aid policy instruments. The aim of looking at policy areas in the context is to strengthen cooperation with the countries of origin and transit, both with a view to combating migration and to facilitating greater willingness in these countries to receive their own citizens who have not been allowed to stay in Norway. It's nothing but what I've said. I have said that we should use the foreign policy opportunities we have to get back agreements with countries. There are at present five countries with which we could need a return agreement. Three countries to return their own citizens, there are questions about Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea. And then it's the question of transit/return of people from Northern Iraq, either over Syria or over Turkey. We need to focus on those areas so we can have a discussion. I have not said that we should force land or take aid from land, but there is one element here, and this element must also be able to be integrated into the dialogues of foreign policy importance to the countries. So this was presented to the Stortinget in 2000, and there was no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2233	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of State the following questions: ‘In 1992, new principles for county budgets and accounts were laid down by the Ministry of Local Government. These meant that private health institutions receiving a grant from the county must book holiday money as a claim against the county. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that, from 1992 onwards, private health institutions, which have been required to carry holiday pay as a claim in relation to the county municipality, will now suffer financial damage because the county councils will not grant reimbursement for holiday money?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2242	In the context of the state acquisition of the specialist health service from 1 January 2002, the State budget for 2002 has been allocated approx. NOK 2,3 billion as a subsidy to county councils to cover holiday payments previously incurred in county municipalities and as a compensation for interest losses subsequently incurred by county councils. The appropriations must be seen in the light of changes in the rules governing the keeping of holiday pay in the local accounts. Some private health institutions have previously received annual operating grants from county municipalities. These institutions have been subject to accounting rules other than those of the counties, and have not been directly affected by the changes in local accounting regulations mentioned above. These regulations did not provide for specific ways for private health institutions to carry holiday pay. The basis for the calculation of the annual grant to each institution has also been a case between the institution and the county. Some less than half of the holiday allowance granted in 2002 is free to use the individual county council for different purposes, including grants to private health institutions which may have followed a similar accounting practice to that of the county councils in the past. However, such a cost is not included in the calculation of the holiday allowance. As the municipal minister, I would urge the county councils to act in an orderly manner in relation to private health institutions, but I think it is difficult in respect of municipal autonomy to impose specific solutions on them. The starting point here should be to have agreements that take into account, including between private institutions and the county council, that solutions can be found to this problem. Unfortunately, in all counties there have not been clear agreements linked to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2253	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is, of course, a problem which is, in particular, linked to the transition process, the transfer of specialist health services to state ownership. I am also aware that the problem does not apply in all states, but in some states, as the council says, where the contract work may not have been tidy. I also record that the Council of State sees it as natural that the accrued holiday money for the private institutions is collected by the county council, without the Council of State giving an instruction from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2262	We must respect municipal autonomy and say that when a municipality or, as in this case, a county municipality enters into agreements with private actors, new rules and, where appropriate, new requirements on accounting for, for example, are taken into account. holiday pay in connection with those agreements. Especially in sectors where there have been long traditions with non-promotional institutions, there are problems with the fact that the contractual relationships are not necessarily good and clear in all ways, because they have been an integral part of the county budgets and the economy once the decisions have been taken. However, I do not think there is any basis for going in and making special instructions to the county councils. The county is a separate, autonomously elected body which, as much as the Stortinget and other elected bodies, must take responsibility for the cleanliness of these principles. It is part of the Government’s modernisation work to provide for the delegation of responsibilities and tasks, and in this context it is responsible for the cleanliness of the county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2270	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: "The proportion of women in defense is very low today. What has the Council of State done to increase the proportion of women in defence among the common people and among the commands?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2279	The women's share of the defense must be up. To achieve this, we need to recruit more women and make sure that the women who are there thrive, and thus will bet on a career in Defense. Therefore, the defence is now using untraditional tools in the recruitment work. The camp for defense-interested girls in the Setesdalen last week is one example. The use of modern means of communication, such as SMS and e-mail, is different. We also consider that during these days women should be given priority in the autumn's admission to command schools, war schools and staff schools if they otherwise meet the demanding requirements for admission. A defence with a more balanced gender distribution will provide a broader range of competences, and that is important. Women in Defence are good role models, which must be made visible and actively used in the recruitment work. Women have interesting opportunities in defense, and no one else is better qualified to convey it outwardly with credibility than the women who are already there. We also focus on measures to keep women in defense. I have, in a letter to the head of defense, challenged all four general inspectors in the defense to come up with good measures to ensure that the defence is perceived as a more attractive workplace for women. Awareness-raising and awareness-raising work in relation to gender equality are also central to achieving this. All personnel responsible for the Defence Command shall conduct a course on the subject of ‘two gender – two cultures’ by the end of 2002 and by the end of 2003 all personnel managers in the Defence shall have completed such a course. Women must be made visible, and it is my clear objective that there should be women at all levels in all parts of the Defence. Furthermore, concrete measures have been taken to combine family life with a career in Defence. Here we work closely with the employee organisations to find good solutions. Other measures that I would like to mention are mentoring programmes for female leadership candidates, networks for female command, which are a formal cooperation forum, and generally better practical arrangements for women in departments and schools. The over-command of the defence has introduced a equality award to be awarded to a person or a department which is distinguished in the work on equality or which promotes the cause of women by concrete action. I would like to thank the other representative Nybakk for the question of the proportion of women, and I would like to make it clear that with women in defence, I take it very seriously. That's something I want to prioritise and work hard on. Not least, I believe that we have a female head of the defence committee, a female vice-chairman of the defence committee and a female defence minister, so that together we can actually help make the girls visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2300	I would like to thank you for an answer that was very positive. I fully agree with the last thing the Council of State said. I think we can also be role models. But I also want to ask what kind of time perspective the Council of State has in relation to getting more women into the Defence. When we dealt with the defence reform, it was a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, who asked the Defense more than before to recognise the resource that women represent in all areas of defence activity. It was thought that the defense had to work actively to improve recruitment. I am aware that the Right was not included in that comment, but on the contrary, it felt that there was equality in the Defence. I am genuine in doubt that this is the case, and at least I interpret the Council of State to that she agrees with me in this. As I said, I would like to ask what timetable the Council of State has in relation to the measures she has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2307	Many of the measures I mentioned are feasible in 2002. With regard to the training of employees, if everyone with human responsibility is going through the same courses, we also need to take 2003 to help. But compared to that with recruitment, a lot can be done in the current year. Here, I actually think it's visiting, for example. all our war schools and bring up with the school management measures they can put in place to make it easier for girls who are at school is very important – not that they should drop professional content or professional requirements, but that might be the way we treat the girls when they get there, and the way schools sell when they're going to recruit students. In addition, I think, as I said, that the general inspectors, who have overall responsibility in the four different defence sectors, can do more to facilitate the retention of the women we have, and recruit them from schools and into forward-looking positions. And this should be possible in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2312	I agree with much of what has now been said. The Council of State mentioned in its first answer that we have two genders and two cultures, and I think that might be some of the problem we're facing. A TV show recently showed that, among other things, culture and jargon in the Defense Nearly bullies women out, and that several of those who are actually in the Defense end after a short time. I'm going to ask the Council of State to take the necessary steps to look at this separately, so that we can secure the goals that are set, in 7 pst. The proportion of women in command – and there is not much – and 13 pst. female civil leaders in the Defence. This is in a special position in a country that otherwise boasts of equality, so the defence must in several ways be made an attractive job for women, and I hope that the Council of State and I can cooperate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2319	I fully agree that we can cooperate on this. I also agree that 7 pst. is not particularly ambitious, and my goal is to get a lot higher than that. I would also like to make a comment on the film ‘Never one of the guys’, which was shown on the NRK. I think that many of us who saw that program had the same reactions to some of the comments that came from men who were involved in the program. But the positive thing about all of this is that the program was initiated by the Defense itself. It was the defense's recruitment and media center that took the initiative to make this film and actually to pass it on to the NRK, just as part of the process of focusing this on internal defence. And I know that several of the inspectors we have have have already caught the ball and have concrete initiatives to make it easier for the girls that we already have there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2329	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The petroleum industry emits large amounts of water containing radioactive and endocrine-inducing substances and radioactive lead. Measured at becquerel level, these emissions correspond to 20 pst. of the emissions from Sellafield. This kind of release of radioactive substances, heavy metals and organic pollutants from Norway is weakening our credibility in the fight to preserve a clean and productive sea for ourselves and our descendants. What will the Council of State do to stop these emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2338	First, I would like to thank the representative Swensen and the Coastal Party for the good and close cooperation we have had, as I also had with the representative Bastesen, in order to stop the terrible emissions of technetium-99 – radioactive waste – from the Sellafield plant. There is no doubt that this is a threat to our marine environment, and we are facing a very important decision by the British government during the spring. That's why I'm a little surprised at the premise on the question, which is that these emissions that you're going to discuss here would weaken our commitment to the Sellafield case. I'll get back to that. But I think we now have to stand together to influence the British government. Here we must not give free points by saying that if we do not sort it out and that matter, we weaken in the Sellafield game. These are also important questions. But I think that the link that some people are now using in the process we have with the United Kingdom is unacceptable, and it gives me fewer opportunities compared to what we are running against the British authorities. I think we're going to agree that we're going to keep these things apart, and then we're going to clean up what's important to us. It is an established objective for Norwegian petroleum activities that we should not allow environmentally hazardous emissions of oil and chemicals at sea, i.e. the zero emission requirement shall apply. For existing fields, the aim is to implement the necessary measures by 2005. As a general rule, new fields shall not be environmentally hazardous. I also draw attention to the fact that in the case of water produced, there is at least as much of it from the United Kingdom, and there is an additional dimension to what is involved in Sellafield. The Government will ensure that the objective of zero emission of hazardous substances at sea is achieved. The target includes both oil and added and naturally occurring chemicals in the water produced. To achieve this goal, new technologies need to be developed and a number of measures put in place. In relation to the desire to ensure a clean and rich sea for ourselves and our descendants, it is important what we have now started, I believe, that we will shortly be presenting a communication on the marine environment. There we also address the very issue that the representative raises. Emissions of naturally occurring radioactive substances — radium — dissolved in water produced, not synthetic radioactivity coming from Sellafield, are not well enough mapped on Norwegian continental shelf. Although, according to State radiation protection, there is no reason to assume that radioactivity in water produced represents a significant hazard to health and the environment, this reinforces the need to reduce the total emissions of water produced from Norwegian soil. It's this angle of incidence that we're going to be weakened in the Sellafield game, and I can't accept that. This is natural radioactivity; the other is synthetic. The State radiation protection system has not drawn the same conclusions to that effect. It's a great commitment, and we're also going to clean up this, but not use it in the Sellafield game.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2354	You can't rule out one or the other. It's not to connect this to Sellafield, but to be able to solve the problems, which are quite serious in themselves. So there's no way to weaken the Sellafield game, on the contrary. It's true, as they say, that most of them may come from the British sector. The Coastal Party will appeal to oil companies to overcome these problems, and hopes that the Government will help stop all hazardous emissions. These emissions are unnecessary because currently available technologies are available to eliminate them. My follow-up question to the Minister for the Environment will be: Will the Government require zero emissions from the petroleum sector? I also agree with the Minister for the Environment that we must stand together in this fight. I thank you for the answer, and it's clear that we're going to stick together, and we're going to do our utmost to stop these technetium-99 emissions from Sellafield.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2365	This may develop into a mutual exchange of compliments, but I just want to repeat that I know that the Coastal Party is in place when it comes to the fight against Sellafield. Here in the day I also received a greeting from Steinar Bastesen at Sunnaas, and he confirmed that the Coastal Party will continue to follow up the struggle that we are leading from the Government against the technetium-99 emissions. I also think this is a natural follow-up to that. In the case of water produced, we should and we should follow a zero-emission strategy. Oil companies shall be stepped up in the seams. It is quite obvious that they need to deliver from the best available technology to end unnecessary discharges from water produced, i.e. what remains of the water absorbed from the continental shelf, which may contain pollution. There are opportunities here, and by 2005, we're going to have the zero-emission strategy in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2374	I thank you again for the answer. It was very positive to hear that you want a zero-emission strategy by 2005. It should be noted that most of the radioactive substances resulting from the production of oil and gas are discharged into produced water from the platforms. Only small quantities end up as waste on land. The annual emission has now been converted to 13 Tbq per. years and rises steadily, and this in turn will result in a significant increase in the amount of radioactive waste shipped to the country. My question is: will the government be a driver to establish a landfill on land as soon as possible? I believe that this will also be an important contribution from Norway, which is driving it to reduce and eliminate these emissions, and I also think about emissions from Denmark, the Netherlands and, in particular, the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2383	The answer is yes. Here one then has to distinguish, I understand, what is produced water, coming from the base, and what is called a good Norwegian name ‘scale’, i.e. waste products that come on land when cleaning, among other things. pipeline systems and the like, for which no central repository has been established. It is deposited in various places around the country. We will now demand to the oil companies that they continue to build a central warehouse. Unfortunately, not all countries follow this practice. Some actually take this on land and then it dumps in the sea afterwards, and this also contains radioactive substances. There is no good practice, and that is probably also very doubtful with regard to some international conventions. But the State's radiation protection will continue to work to see how naturally occurring radioactive substances loose in water produced work, and chart this. For the time being, they say that there is no reason to assume that radioactivity in produced water represents a significant hazard to health or the environment, because it is naturally occurring radon.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2391	This question, from the representative Hans Seierstad to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by the representative Inger S. Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2394	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment about the following: ‘The Core Area of Yews in South Norway shall be repealed with effect from 1 April 2002. No signals have been received to date on how the management is to take place at the end of the core area. What is the Government’s policy in this area after 1 April?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2403	I thank you for the question. It also allows us to present what we intend to do in relation to following up the Storting decision at this point. It can be nice when the representative takes up a question related to predatory game, that she can get an exhaustive answer in relation to where it is now. I understand that the representative has not always been as satisfied with the answers I have given to these questions, but we will see what we get today. The Government of Stoltenberg, acting under the authority of the Stortinget, decided to terminate the core area of Yev in South Norway with effect from 1 April 2002. The decision was communicated to the Stortinget in the 2002 budgetproposal. The decision implies that you are to be managed on the basis of a stock target of 10-15 annual young people throughout South Norway. Extinguishing the core area of yours in South Norway involves changes in the use of tools in the management of your money. I want to focus on establishing transitional arrangements based on the framework of the budget proposal. The Department is now working on concreteising the various elements of a new management of the Yews in South Norway. Management of a small stock of yorks across a larger area throughout South Norway, without a core area, imposes strict management precision requirements. The Ministry will therefore facilitate the availability of the necessary management tools and data bases prior to the implementation of a new test scheme. In concrete terms, this implies reviewing and adapting the stock monitoring system for youv to a new management model with a significantly larger geographical scope and developing models for the procurement of individuals in a few yew populations. Furthermore, in line with the budgetary position, hunting should be directed more strongly towards areas with significant damage in order to improve the damage reduction effect. Local anchoring of the management of Yews in South Norway should also, in my opinion, be ensured through continued testing of schemes allowing the most affected municipalities to perform or assist in specific administrative tasks. This may concern the implementation of conditional killing permits, the organisation of preventive activities, the use of local killing teams, and participation in stock monitoring. This will be followed up, and last year's Biggest assumptions will also be underpinned by the abolition of the traditional core area from 1 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2422	It is very nice to be concerned about this, but a new model needs to be adapted, says the Council of State, and it is also about prevention measures, without being specific to it. This is starting to rush now because we have lambing these days, little animals are going out on pasture in May, and people who are going to have this as food are worried about their animals. So there has been no concrete action, but there are many measures that are in some way pending. It's my experience of it when I hear the council here. I almost want to mention that in 2000 compensation was paid in 91 municipalities. In 2001, this was the case with 110 municipalities, so we see that the yews are spreading very widely, and it is therefore important to get concrete measures. So you wait for it. And then I almost have to ask the Council of State to clarify what he means – what he will actually do to reduce the loss of animals that will graze right now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2429	I understand the representative, Mr Enger, that she is also committed to what was decided last autumn by Storting, namely that some core areas should be removed. If the representative is concerned that the Yurven can spread beyond a larger area, it may also result from a decommissioning of a nuclear area. I'm just paying attention to it. In a nuclear domain, you have to manage within a zone. If I understand the representative right, then the Central Party will also hold on to the decommissioning of the core area. It's clear that it creates some new challenges, and we're going to try to follow up as best we can. But then it is not possible to use as an argument that you are concerned that several municipalities are being subjected to damage to you. The point with the abolition of the nuclear zone is that the Stortinget felt that there was an unreasonable strain on these municipalities, not least in Enger's own home country, Oppland, which was then to run the whole area. What the government is now trying to do is deliver on this as best it can. But the representative himself points out the dilemmas we're in here, that when we're going to lift an area, it's going to extend across a larger area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2434	I'd like to follow up on this. My point was that the spread took place long before we were able to remove the core area. I see the problem as Burnde here mentions, but it just shows that it is very important to take strong measures to reduce the loss rate. The loss rate for sheep was 13 571 animals in 2001, and it is ethically irresponsible. For this reason, it is essential that the Department engages with clear and rapid ‘advisers’ in order to reduce this. I have to ask the Council of State to be even more specific than he has been when it comes to providing loss reduction measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2441	I do not disagree that prevention is very important. When we're going to present the whole of this, it's going to be an important element. But, as Enger is also aware, there is a dilemma in what the Storting has decided, namely to have active outings combined with predators. There could always be damage, but we have to limit them as much as possible, and that has to be part of this arrangement. There's a lot of good input on this, and we'll come with them when we put this case forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2451	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Minister for the Environment has converted previous decisions of the Ministry to protect high-productive agricultural land in the municipality of Søgne. The majority of the local government has wanted to build nursing homes on the land. In its letter to the municipality, the Council of State writes that the most involved parties have been consulted and that all have opposed the wishes of the municipality. Nevertheless, previous decisions have been reversed by the Council of State. Has the Council of State taken environmental considerations into account in the decision, or is the policy considerations that have been decisive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2460	The Planning and Building Act adds the authority to take plan decisions to the municipalities. I believe that local democracy is important and that there must be substantial regional or national interests in order to review a municipal plan decision. The interests of soil protection in this matter were not clear and burdensome enough for me to go against the majority of the local government. The majority of the Municipal Council has agreed that a new nursing home should have a central location. Since the priority location was not approved by the previous Minister for the Environment, the municipality has worked on an alternative site in the centre. Although the County Agriculture Council has not objected to this location, it also confiscates the cultivated land. In addition, it appears that the use of this site is complicated due to road safety considerations on the neighbouring national road. In my opinion, the Sägne Municipality has a good and environmentally friendly grip on the development of the Tangvall Centre. The collection of important public functions at a compact centre is a good environmental policy that reduces transport needs and allows for public transport. In the long term, a compact pattern of expansion could also prevent the extension of the pressure to the larger interlinked agricultural areas south of the centre. This is in line with national policy guidelines for coordinated land and transport planning adopted by the government as early as 1993. The answer to the question is therefore that I have based my decision on environmental considerations. In relation to the previous Minister for the Environment, it is possible that I have given greater attention to the development of a compact and environmentally friendly centre than to soil protection. In a case like this, where different environmental considerations are at odds with each other, substantial emphasis should be placed on the overall assessment of what will provide the best social solution locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2471	The County Agriculture Council has objected to construction in this area, and the Ministry of Agriculture letter of 29 March 2001 states that the west of secondary school conflict area is an area with the most stringent protection against degradation. The Ministry of Agriculture therefore recommends that the objection be upheld. In the local authority, there has been a performance in this matter. The majority have rejected other alternatives that have been identified in relation to the placement of the hospital home. The municipality has therefore itself placed itself in the situation it has come into. What is it in the new recordings that have prompted the Council of State to amend a previously adopted decision in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2480	As I said in my previous answer, I attach great importance to what the local government has come to do here. In Norway, we have a local democracy that works, and this has been a difficult local balance between two alternatives, both of which concern food soils. I think you should be aware of that. The local government wanted a central area for the expansion of the nursing home. Since the previous Minister of Environmental Protection was rather surprising – it can be said – chose to review the local decision, the municipality began to work on another central land, which was also a food land. But this site has gradually proved not to be suitable, as the transport authorities had strong objections because it was too close to a road, and the departure was very difficult. The municipality then ended up in a terrible dilemma, as it wanted a central extension. I saw no reason to review the majority of the local council when I got the case on the table again. There is nothing bad about it when the matter is brought before the Minister for Environmental Protection for review — as there was also new information in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2489	The Minister for the Environment has been high on the ground in relation to international environmental issues. That's good. When it comes to more national issues of nature protection, it turns out that it is not good. I record that party politics and the press are more important than the environment for the Minister for the Environment when he uses the argument he makes – without having the facts that the municipality originally had when it came to alternative places in the hospital. As far as I can see, there are no new elements in the matter. What is the formal nature of this environmental decision and approach by the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2498	I would like to thank the representative for his compliments on my international work on the environment. With regard to national environmental work, there is probably a lot to be said about it – both in the case of previous governments and this government. I feel terribly little hit compared to the fact that this would be an illustration of the loss of the environment. This is about central expansion, to reduce traffic. It's about two soils. One is food land, and the other is food land. Then the transport authorities, after the municipality got no when it came to the previous plot, said that the new plot that was then chosen, which was close to the center, was not usable in relation to the traffic hall. In fact, a new situation has arisen. I really didn't intend to mention it party politics. But I have been made aware that there was not so little party policy in relation to the previous plot, if it results in correctness what is in bidstikka. We had a group meeting yesterday, and it was difficult not to say anything to the others, writes Kjelland Larsen to former Secretary of State Stein Lier-Hansen in a letter dated 3 April 2001, two months before the decision was taken in the department, which was in line with the minority, where the Workers' Party was also a part. I'm not going to go any deeper into this. At least that's what was put on my table right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2507	We go back to questions 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2514	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘The forthcoming United Nations Conference on Financing for Development may prove to be ineffective in the sense that no single step will be taken closer to a practical follow-up to the UN Millennium Declaration on halving the most extreme poverty by 2015. What will the Council of State do in the weeks ahead to ensure that the conference turns out in a more binding document than is currently negotiated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2523	The fact that the Prime Minister, in addition to myself, is going to attend the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, reflects the importance of the Government attaching to the conference. This will be the first opportunity to discuss the follow-up to the Millennium Goals at the political top. At the same time, it will be the first occasion for an overall review of all forms of development finance, national as well as international, both public and private. This is a useful reminder that development is far more than aid. There must be consistency and coherence in our overall policy, so that it supports it in all areas of development and poverty reduction. I agree with Mr Haga that the document is good, but not good enough. It is good in the sense that it takes the Millennium Goals with poverty reduction at the centre as a starting point and as a guide, and it facilitates instruments. Nevertheless, there is a long way to go in terms of concrete commitments for the rich countries. The preparation process has helped the multilateral system to quantify the cost of achieving the Millennium Poverty Response Goals. The Zedillo Panel has estimated that the assistance needs to be increased by approx. Fifty billion dollars a year, a double compared to today's level. World Bank and IMF have submitted calculations that support this. This will force us to become more concrete when we discuss the Millennium Goals, both in Monterrey and in the continuation. The document is far from good enough when it comes to the need to step up assistance, either in concrete figures and/or to 0.7 pst. of GNI. The document itself is probably hard to get done with. We're now working on that. It reflects the consensus that could have been reached between almost 200 countries. Now we're working on finding other ways to get bigger commitments in place. These are concrete figures, as the UK Finance Minister Gordon Brown has called for – he has proposed a "Marshall Plan" of 50 billion US dollars, and get countries to commit to it, or timetables for when countries think they will meet the 0.7 p.m. target. The EU has a process in progress, and the EU Development Committee, the Development Ministers, is actively working on this. The G-7 countries are increasingly on the agenda with development policies, but have not yet taken a corresponding responsibility on the financing side. Norway therefore initiated a conference in Washington on 19 and 20 February, where the main objective was to highlight the need to go beyond the Monterrey consensus document. At the conference, we challenged, among other things: the US Finance Minister in this very area. In the weeks leading up to the conference, I would like to make close contact, among other things. with the United Nations Secretariat, with Mexico, with the Utstein countries, which are close allies, and the Nordic countries, in order for us to contribute together to ensure that the conference delivers more binding results than that contained in the consensus document. So I want to make these contacts now to see what we can do to get more commitments from the rich countries. We look at the conference as a milestone, and certainly not as a final line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2542	I appreciate the commitment that I know the Minister for Development has in this matter, and that she has also expressed now. But in the debate on the Foreign Minister's presentation, unfortunately, the Prime Minister made it clear that he would not work for an international tax on currency transactions. It's sad, not least because it's a topic in the EU these days. One can, as an alternative source of funding for international organisations, imagine other forms of international taxation. My question to the Minister for Aid will be whether she sees that international taxation is one of the alternatives to financing international organisations and their activities. In case she answers that she sees this as an opportunity, what initiatives will she take?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2549	I would like to remind the representative Haga that I am the Minister for Development and not the Minister for Aid. It does indeed illustrate this question of taxes on currency transactions, which can also be seen as a developmental issue. The origin of this question by the representative Haga is to try to obtain concrete results in Monterrey – results that can drive the process in the right direction, and results that may be welcome. As we read the negotiating situation, neither the situation in the EU nor the situation among OECD countries is such that there is any chance of a consensus on an international tax on currency transactions. The expressions we've used in the past in this context have been that it's worth considering. I know that the central government did that, and it's also been this kind of formulation you've used in the Storting. However, as the debate now progresses in the EU and internationally, this is probably an issue that in the case of Monterrey is very much overdue, and it is not a question that will lead to any concrete results in relation to Monterrey. Therefore, my answer is that yes, it might in the long run be an alternative if it is possible to find solutions to a good number of difficult questions related to the operationalisation of such a concept. That work has not been properly carried out, and it is not – I believe – possible now that this type of proposal can be given greater prominence. There are other types of proposals for new and creative funding mechanisms referred to in the Monterrey document, but which have not been addressed there. These are some of the questions that I think will be the subject of quite a discussion in Monterrey, but that you will also need a lot of time to process. This applies, for example: the question of ‘special drawing rights’ for the IMF, which George Soros is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2560	I am at least pleased that the Minister for Development does not reject international taxation as an instrument; the issue of whether the Prime Minister was extremely reprehensible in terms of taxes on currency transactions. But just to get a little overall in how the process has progressed to this document that the Minister for Development and I agree is too low a commitment: I would like to know what initiatives have been taken by the Norwegian side during the negotiations on the final document to ensure a more binding document, and whether it is also possible to say something about why one has not been able to implement these possible proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2567	Norway has been among the countries that have been most active in trying to obtain binding formulations in this field. Let me say that the picture is not quite gloomy, because it is a very unique document in terms of consensus on what needs to be done to create development in poor countries, and what is needed to achieve the Millennium Goals in terms of trade, investment, good governance, etc. But it fails when it comes to the question of resources. There it really fails, and unfortunately it reflects the political situation in many of the G-7 countries and the rich OECD countries, where only 0.7 pst is attached to the traditional UN formula. without a time frame and with ‘as agreed’ as a formulation. As the representative Haga is also familiar with – I think – the United States has never joined this commitment. So we are in the political situation that countries don't want to go any further, but we're going to try to take advantage of the momentum that's in Monterrey to see if it's possible to move on and make numerical commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2577	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Recently, we have witnessed very different signals from government parties on gender in business. The Minister of Industry and Trade has gone very aggressively with the Government's ambitions on this issue. Can the Storting expect the Council of State to submit legislative proposals on quotaing in the boardrooms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2586	The government's starting point is that it will strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry with a greater diversity in the management of Norwegian enterprises. When the proportion of women in the boards of Norwegian listed companies is only 6-7 p.p., this is a signal that there is a long way to go – despite the fact that the increase in the proportion of women has been an explicit target for many years. The government believes it is important to take further action to increase the proportion of women. The modest proportion of women in government in Norway is in stark contrast to the fact that women have been in the majority of students at educational institutions for a long time and have a solid foundation in their professional life. I interpret the low proportion of women in government as a signal that women have poorer career and development opportunities in working life than men. I am also very concerned that action is needed to improve the situation. The recent public debate has been useful. It has shown that there is a general perception that this is a problem. The debate has also shown that there are divided opinions on what will be the best means of achieving a more balanced distribution of women and men in the governments. All government parties agree on the objective of a more equal representation of sex. The government is now discussing the instruments that should be implemented, including the issue of legal rules. The government will finalise this issue in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2595	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I notice that the Council of State is a little more restrained now in relation to some positions related to gender equality and the issue of representation in the boards of industry than what I have recorded that the Council of State has spoken publicly through the media. But I don't have any difficulty sharing the actual description that there are too few women in business decision-making bodies, and that there is actually a need for action. As I said, I perceive that the Council of State is now going back somewhat and is a little more audacious in relation to some statements relating to the fact that there has now been a debate that has been going on for so long that one has to act. It is also directly said and referred to in the press that the Council of State, for example. wish for a quota and promise to propose better gender representation in the board of directors. In practice, it would probably mean issues of quotaing. My follow-up question is: does the Council of State stand firm in her views which she has expressed publicly, and can she also convey it to the Stortinge here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2606	It's been a very exciting debate. I want to repeat that what is pleasing about the debate that is now is that there are many of us – including myself – who want us to have more women in the boardrooms. Personally, I saw two possible solutions at an earlier time and have been very offensive in the debate. Which of the two options I want to get on, to put it that way, we haven't yet taken a decision because the government has a discussion about what instruments we're going to go for. Then there have also been other proposals, from other politicians, from other political parties. We also see that the business community has made some suggestions, and the employee organisations that LO has responded to something. The reason why I can't express the government's view here and now is that we're in the middle of the debate, and I hope the representative understands that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2617	I understand that it is difficult for the Council of State to express the Government's view as long as the Government has this to deal with. To this extent, it is a good enough assurance that the Council of State confirmed that, in relation to the treatment it has publicly expressed, quotaing is also, not only in the public sector, but in the private sector, a means of achieving better representation in the governing bodies of business. After all, it is all about ensuring women's participation in the decision-making process, and it is an effective tool for the distribution of power. Right here and now we're not sure we're going to get any further. I just want to end by asking whether the Council of State will once again stand firm in the view of the party as regards the use of the statutory sex quota on this issue, during the discussions in the Government, or whether she will choose to bow down to the men of industry and the more traditional view of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2624	This may have to wait for the representative to receive a reply until we have dealt with the matter in the Government. Quotation is one tool. The second instrument that I said at an early stage could also be interesting – and I repeat what I have stated publicly – is that the government should not buy or own shares in companies that do not have a share of 40 pst. in the control compartments. That could be another way to do it. Then there have also been other proposals, such as this. business needs a little more time. I noticed the other day that the NHO was also out talking about an agreement with the sickness insurance scheme, which LO immediately replied no. So here's a part that's swirling in the air. I think it's a very exciting debate we have in the government. I only want to express once again that it is positive that so many people are concerned about the matter. In this way, perhaps the previous government could also have chosen – if it wanted – to bring the matter before the Storting. It has been in consultation for a long time and has been in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2633	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-06.ana.ud395e2644	There is no record.
