ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e38	The requested alternate of the State of Oppland, Morten Ørsal Johansen, has taken the seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e59	The setting concerns the treatment of Document No by the Church, Education and Research Committee. 8:103 for 2001-2002 by the representatives of Djupedal, Elvik, Rikvam and Vaggen Malvik on the establishment of technology agreements. The document promotes six different proposals based on the intention of the proposal. The Committee, when considering the matter, has sought the opinions of a number of bodies. As an annex to the case, there is a letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, issued in consultation with the Ministry of Education and Research and a letter from the National Association of Oil Industries. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left and the representative Simonsen do not consider the proposals to be appropriate instruments and will therefore not recommend either the original proposals of the proposers or the six proposals proposed by the SV during the examination of the matter within the Committee. These representatives refer in particular to the letter from the Minister for Oil and Energy, which refers to two aspects. One relationship concerns work on a broad national strategy for technology and research, a work that should soon be ready for presentation. The second relates to the EEA Agreement; the introduction of technology agreements or similar arrangements would be contrary to EEA law. These representatives also point out that technology agreements were probably an appropriate instrument in the past stages of development on Norwegian continental shelf, but that this is probably not an appropriate instrument in the current situation and also not for the future. However, these members underline the importance of investing in research and development to develop Norwegian expertise in the petroleum industry. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party support the intention of the proposers to strengthen petroleum-related research and development. These members also indicate that the total effort in this area is low in view of the overall challenges facing Norwegian petroleum industry. With regard to the proposal contained in the document, the members of the Workers' Party consider that it is not desirable and appropriate, on a formal or factual basis, to re-establish research and development agreements as concession terms for the granting of extraction permits. These members refer to the forthcoming notification of oil and gas activities. The SV representatives point out that a large part of the remaining petroleum resources are in small fields. This calls for new skills and technologies. In the opinion of these members, the use of Norwegian competence abroad is also limited in order to increase Norwegian research and competence. Therefore, these members consider that there is a need, within the framework set by international legislation, to more closely link concession authorisations to investment in research and competence in some form. These representatives refer to EEA legislation but believe that regulations can be drafted under this legislation with recommendations to oil companies instead of requirements. The Committee proposes that measures to strengthen research and development efforts in the petroleum sector should be considered in the notification of the oil and gas sector. Finally, a few words on behalf of the Progress Party. We are committed to assessing two aspects of national research strategy — the use of fiscal measures to motivate business to invest in research and development and the use of oil wealth returns for the purchase of goods and services from abroad to Norwegian research and teaching institutions. These require the renewal of essential equipment and, on the basis of our oil wealth, it should be in our opinion that they should have top-quality equipment. I would like to re-examine the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the Committee, which is also supported by the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e87	Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e90	The Workers' Party shares the conclusion of Mr Sortevik's representative, who stated that the proposal for R & D agreements or so-called technology agreements would be rejected as a concession. So here's a wider majority than maybe the setting should give the impression of. Blackvike has well explained the positions of the various lots. However, I would like to repeat the main points of the Workers' Party. We believe that it would be desirable or appropriate for neither formal nor actual reasons to reintroduce R & D agreements as an instrument, for formal reasons, because this is linked to our commitments in the EEA Agreement and for actual reasons of competition and the framework conditions on Norwegian soil, and that the need for technological innovation requires different types of research programmes today than before. At the same time, it is clear that research and development efforts in the petroleum sector are low in relation to the need and that it is necessary to look at industry incentives and how further incentives can be put in place to improve the situation. Research cooperation is under way between the Department, the Research Council and the oil and gas industries, and at the same time it has been announced by the Department that they will address the issue of the forthcoming oil and gas spillover. For this reason, we have gathered on a decision asking the Ministry to consider various measures to strengthen research and development efforts in the petroleum sector. The effort here also has a link with the objective of increasing Norwegian research efforts in general to at least the average OECD level by 2005, where both public and private funding of research needs to be strengthened. I also refer in this context to, among other things, The Workers' Party's proposal to increase the fund capital of the Research and Innovation Fund by DKK 14 billion. Now it is not the proposal in the document that is made in the setting, but there are some modified proposals from the Central Party and SV. We have not had any evidence or actual evidence of the formal and real aspects of a relatively detailed and comprehensive proposal. But it might be interesting that in the case you get back, you actually look at whether it is different if you recommend things to the oil companies in relation to the situation attached to the original document proposal, that there are proposals for claims, and whether you have the same formal and real obstacles here. But based on the form the proposal has today, we will vote against both minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e103	In letters from the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Committee dated 27 May, the Council of State argues that the proposal for the establishment of technology agreements cannot be implemented for formal reasons, as this would be incompatible with the main principles of the EEA Agreement. From the parties to the government, we agree with this assessment. We also agree with the Council of State that it would not be appropriate or desirable to reintroduce R & D agreements as conditions for granting extraction permits. It's been nine years since you left the technology agreement scheme. The rationale at the time was both formal and appropriate. Since then, developments have moved in a direction that, in our opinion, it is less timely to reintroduce the agreements. I would like, among other things: point to the international competitive situation, which has changed by opening up new and more attractive areas to petroleum activity, and that there are now suppliers that are responsible for most of the technological developments in industry. In its letter, the Council of State also refers to the close cooperation established by OG21, Oil and Gas in the 21st century. Here the department cooperates with the Research Council and with the industry. The aim is to develop a national strategy for technology and research. OG21 will ensure a more efficient and comprehensive R & D effort than could be done by one of the proposals before. And like the Council of State, we have great faith that this cooperation will provide the necessary skills in the Norwegian petroleum industry. However, there is a need to strengthen research and development efforts in the petroleum sector. That is why, on the part of the government parties, we are also behind the committee's proposal in the vote, and we will of course vote in favour of it. This means that we reject the proposal from the proposers as it also appears in a new form in the vote. I also refer to the special comments from the government parties as they appear in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e114	Let me first comment on what Vidar Bjørnstad said, namely that the Workers' Party has gone for 14 billion kroner more to the Research Fund. And that's right. But the 14 billion will compensate for the loss of 800-900 million. kr from the tickers. So these 14 billion will not bring us any closer to the OECD average level in terms of research efforts – just to clarify it. During 2005, industry is expected to increase its R & D effort by approx. DKr 5-6 billion. If we're going to achieve our goal, what the Storting has decided, that we're going up to the OECD average level, that means that we're going to increase our research effort in Norway by about. $10 billion in relation to today's level. Between 5 and 6 billion DKK in business means an unchanged distribution. Today, business contributes slightly more than 50 pst. of the research effort, the public contributes to the remainder. We've tried different incentives to get business to bet on R & D efforts. We tried with a grant scheme where the state introduced a certain number of millions of dollars to trigger a similar effort in private business. This worked very well. It was a system that worked very well. We only had it for six months. The business wanted to remove it, but afterwards they complained that it was removed. So it's not always easy to be a politician. But at least there was a system that worked. The triggered R & D effort in business, and that was important. Now we're trying with tax incentives in relation to business and trying to increase R & D efforts. How it will work, we don't know. In aquaculture, we have introduced a tax on the marketing of products from the aquaculture industry. It is a voluntary scheme, but there are funds channelled into R & D efforts within that industry. There are important measures to try to increase research efforts in industry in general. The technology agreements that we had in a 20-year period generated billions of dollars for research, and they were absolutely crucial for Norway to develop to be a leader in oil technology in this industry. These agreements were terminated early in the 1990s, and the reason was that they were contrary to the EEA Agreement because they covered only non-resident companies, i.e. they were distorting competition with Norwegian companies. What we are now proposing is that these agreements – not in exactly the same form, but with the same intention – be re-tested. We need increased efforts, we need to stimulate that kind of research, and we need new technologies, for example, to increase the extraction of oil on our base. This type of agreement contributes to providing knowledge to Norwegian research environments, and it is important, and it stimulates Norwegian research environments. Norwegian Cap is still interesting. I find it difficult to understand the argument that if we introduce that kind of agreement, it would mean that foreign companies would no longer think that Norwegian base is interesting. There's no reason to believe it. Norwegian Cap is still interesting. It's an exciting area, and although we're reintroducing that kind of agreement, where they're going to prove that they're spending so much on research, mainly linked to Norwegian research environments, Norwegian institutes and Norwegian universities, I'm pretty sure they won't have anything to do with foreign companies' interest in the Norwegian base. So I want to make a little comment on some of what has come up. This is not a suitable instrument, they say from the Labour Party, the Right and also from the Progress Party, it was suitable from 1973 to 1993, but today it is not a suitable instrument. Why it's not, nobody says anything about it. No one is saying to me and to us anything about why this is not a suitable tool. They have mentioned that this is likely to affect the interest of foreign companies in Norwegian capital, but there is no evidence to suggest that this is the case. Thus, this is likely to be an equally appropriate instrument today as it was in the 20-year period from 1973 to 1993. There are questions about whether we want to, and there are questions about how much we want to invest in research. I am sorry that it has not been possible to have a majority for this, because we need to find the means to increase the Norwegian research effort. We can sit and decide that we're going up to 1.7 pst. or 2,1 pst., OECD average level. 10 billion dollars we have to get out of the state and from the private. But if we're not willing to use tools to try to stimulate these billions out, then at least we're pretty sure we're not succeeding. On our side, this proposal is an attempt to find instruments that could stimulate increased research efforts. I take note that it will not be included by the majority. I regret that, but despite that, I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e142	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e145	With regard to my assessment of the facts of the case, I refer you to the answer I gave to the Committee in a letter dated 27 May, by letter from the Committee on 25 April, concerning comments on Document No. 8:103, which is currently being treated. The present proposals, which have been discussed by several speakers, have good intentions in the light of the difficult developments facing the industry. However, as is also evident from the suspension, the proposals are neither appropriate nor possible to implement. There is, however, a need to strengthen research in the industry. And I therefore welcome the fact that petroleum-oriented R & D is being put on the agenda in Stortinget in this way. The government has emphasised R & D in the Sem Declaration, and this will also be further discussed in the forthcoming spillover of oil and gas activities, as I also announced in my reply to the Committee. The Storting prays in Innst. S. No 222 for 2001-2002 that the Government, in the context of the forecasting of oil and gas activities, assesses measures to strengthen research and development efforts in the petroleum sector. Petroleum research is a central theme of the Communication, not least in view of the need to strengthen R & D activities in the light of the challenges facing industry. As has also been referred to by several speakers, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, in close cooperation with the Norwegian Research Council and the oil and gas industries, has established OG21, Oil and Gas in the 21st century, as a permanent cooperation for a broad national strategy for technology and research. OG21 shall ensure a more comprehensive and effective R & D effort, as I perceive a total accumulation is involved. The operators in the petroleum industry are most important in this context. Unlike in the past, suppliers are currently responsible for most of the technology development in the industry. The research that oil companies are doing in addition becomes complementary to this research, and there is a significant potential for value creation in interaction with these actors and the research they provide. This strategy under OG21 will be completed in the near future, and I will present it to a combined Norwegian petroleum industry and to the Norwegian authorities. The aim is to make industry actively contribute to the implementation of such a national strategy. The government will come back to the budgetary aspects of such a strengthening of petroleum research in the context of the 2003 State budget — in the first instance. In the light of our international commitments and the initiative taken to improve competitiveness and thereby the value creation of industry through enhanced R & D, I cannot see, for my part, that it would be really appropriate or desirable to reintroduce a condition for concession award on the basis of R & D agreements, as the proposals have been formulated by the proposers. As mentioned in my reply to the Committee, these positions, which I have explained here and the assessments I have expressed, are given in consultation with the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.1. [[See page 3060]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e181	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will, in any doubt, propose that there should be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e192	This issue is about how to organise the clearing of things in the future. For a long time now, this work has been carried out in the sorencies, which are now called tracts – to the satisfaction of all users. Information on ownership and other real estate arrangements is given in the base book. In the case of registration in the base book, not the whole document is reproduced, but the copy of the document is continuously inserted into a perm, which is the one called the mortgage book. Therefore, the base book and pawnbook are two important tools that you should have together — almost like knives and forks if you are going to eat meat for dinner. Today's billing staff state that they have to find out matters in the mortgage book from five to 20 times a day. At least it will be a big challenge to keep the repre-sentative register in a completely different location in relation to keeping the processing time and administrative costs down. There has been a disparate view of whether or not to remove the information from the courts, and whether it should be a centralised model or a decentralised model. A year ago, this question was sent back to the Department. The Stoltenberg government was asked by a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Right, to examine this issue in greater detail, including the recording of a central register in Hardanger. What we have got back in this message has convinced us in the Workers' Party that it is for the benefit of users, districts and employees that the object lighting remains in the District Courts, and that the pawn books remain with the base books. The typing offices today provide oral information to those who meet personally or contact them over the telephone. The advice is good and free to the users. The telecommunications activities include very large values and legal protection is ensured both in terms of turnover and other legal dispositions of real estate. It's in the Storing Message: «The textbook is in a special position in relation to other public registers on real estate, the credibility of which means that the information recorded there can be used as a basis for correctness.» And further, it says that Norway has ‘a quality well-functioning timing system. This is of fundamental importance for the trading of properties and for the life of credit. The register is also a prerequisite for effective control of public regulatory legislation.» This is the background to the fact that it is a particular responsibility of the authorities for correcting matters, and we in the Workers' Party believe that this is also a public, state task. It is the State that is liable on an objective basis if errors are made by the disclosure of facts. The link to the rights of access provides security of quality and independence. There is also a crucial emphasis on legal certainty and people can rely on the data recorded. Today's briefing takes place in one to two days and is a qualitative and good service. The courts have legal competence and guide the public on legal issues. The courts have jurisdiction in matters of law relating to immovable property, pledges, alterations, forced actions and the law on shares. The disclosure task requires competence within the disclosure rules, but also competence in other laws relating to real estate, change, inheritance, mortgages, reputable property and company law. There's no school to be good at doing things. That is why today’s intelligence staff are so important for the quality of this work — a work that takes place in small and large district courts beyond the whole country. There's a lot of women's jobs in District Norway that we're talking about here. Centralisation in a single unit on Hønefoss, in the Staten Kartverk, as proposed by the majority, will affect users in District Norway, but also beyond interesting jobs for women in districts. But it will also have a different effect, and that is that the small courts will become very vulnerable, for example. sickness among employees. The result will in the long run be that the small rights will be abolished. It's probably the long-term strategy of the centralising bourgeois parties that's behind it. This will also affect the professional outcome, legal certainty and accessibility of users. We in the Workers' Party believe that the public sector should be reorganised, services should be better for users and not worse. The bourgeois parties reorganize to make public services worse, because once they get worse, the demand for private solutions comes from the users, and then the bourgeois parties are satisfied. Then they have achieved what they want, and can use as an argument that users will have new private solutions. The majority's attitude in this case also leaves many small and large questions, such as: if the disclosure is to be carried out in one central unit, why does the majority, in the form of a comment, say that some of today's employees in the district courts should be transferred to the county card offices in order to increase their competence in the field of information. What's going to be good for? Questions also need to be asked about the majority’s observation that collecting the mortgage books in one place will achieve a more consistent application of the law, and that this will lead to more efficiency. Where this mortgage book register is to be only a repository, what is the uniform nature of the discretion to be exercised? There is no judgement whatsoever on these subjects, and the content of the copies has no bearing on the interpretation of the law on disclosure, regulation or right of the facts. I'm tempted to be fluffy: is there a discretionary exercise on how to set the permes? The majority, in our opinion, give the Department a blank mandate to do this reorganisation almost when, in what way and at what price they find too well. We believe this in the Workers' Party is a discharge. As I said earlier in the post, we believe that it is too important a service not to take full responsibility for it. By keeping the Ministry’s own restructuring plans against the majority assumptions, users of the directory services in the country will have to deal with at least two different bodies for a period of four years. In the worst case, in the same region of the country, one may have to deal with the district courts, county maps offices, state maps and municipalities as a property intelligence authority. We think this is unfortunate. I therefore recommend that the Workers' Party vote against II and III in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e237	The case rapporteur, Rui, has gone through the minority's comments in the setting and has pointed out what arguments the Workers' Party now has in order to oppose both centralising the articulation and transferring the business to the Staten Kartverk. There's a lot going on in a year. But in this case there must have been an extra amount. A little over a year ago, on 21 May 2001, the Justice Committee dealt with this matter in the context of judicial reform, and the representative Rui quoted a little from the majority. It is right to say that the majority then consisted of the Right Party and the Labour Party. I am a little disappointed that we have now separated layers in this matter, because the Right has actually followed up what the Workers' Party asked for, and the Government of Bondevik has also followed up what the Workers' Party asked for. I quote from the comments of the majority in the vote at the time: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party and the Right, agree that the disclosure of property is not a type of exercise of authority which implies that this task is necessarily dealt with by the courts and that there is no direct link between the tasks of information and the other tasks of the courts. Moreover, the task is outside the central tasks of the courts which are judicial activities.’.» This was very well written, and I can imagine that there were some from the Workers' Party who also wrote it. It's in line with the government's proposed settings and followed up. Has it become like this now – cf. the case we had two days ago about free legal aid – that the Workers' Party has made it a sport to turn 180 degrees around, take the opposite stand of what they had before, and promote it as a good suggestion in the Stortinget? Why has the Workers' Party turned around? Is there consideration for the employees, or is there consideration for the light of matters on which it is based?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e251	I am very happy that Greece reads the settings from last year, but he has not read the whole setting, at least he does not quote the whole setting here. It is true that what he quoted was there, but there was also a lot of other things in that setting. As I said in my post, the Labour Party and the Right stood together to ask the Ministry to get the matter back to Stortinget. It was the Right Party and the Labour Party agreed. Then I have to be allowed to say, in this case, more than the working party has turned around. The right has also turned around. Last year, they wanted state-of-the-art offices. Now they want a central unit. I know it was their real meaning. They might have come back to their real meaning. The Christian People's Party has also turned around. So if it's like there's spin operations here, it's going on in multiple games, I see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e258	It was said in the post that a central directory would be problematic, because, as far as I understood, it was the courts that should be responsible for the clarification of matters in the Kingdom of Norway. Now there is more than one directory of things in this country. The ransom register in Brønnøysund is also a directory of things. There is also a register where you need a legal assessment, and there is also a register where there is a need to have a certain access. If it is true that the Workers' Party believes that clarification of matters in itself is such a fundamental and important judicial task to perform, why does not the Workers' Party also want to move the Solver's guest to the District Courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e267	The representative of Kukkestad knows well that the matter we are now dealing with here in the hall is about lighting things up. In fact, as far as the Solver register is concerned – if we're going to do something about it – I believe that we're going to see what the Government will find out. I'm not going to say here that we're going to deal with this or this with the Solver register. But keeping things lit up in the district courts has to do with being user-friendly, they're all over the country, it's a good service, and it's actually also a be or not too many small things around the country of Norway. We believe that this is the important reason why we should deal with the facts in the District Courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e272	The representative, Rui, explained that there are several people who have turned this case around, and that is quite correct. She pointed out that the Christian People's Party has also turned around. Yes, that's right, and we know that we've done it, because we've fixed ourselves after what a majority of this big thing has ordered, you shouldn't go for it as a Christian People's Party, well, a year ago thought, but would have investigated other relationships. As I said, there were, among other things, The Working Party, together with the Right, this majority. The representative Rui is accusing today from the pulpit of the Great Britain Christian People's Party – although it may be a bit much to put into it, the accuser is a little strong, describes it perhaps more correctly – when she describes it in such a way that the Christian People's Party has done something that is not directly wrong, but that is something suspicious of it, I have to ask the representative the question: Isn't it not common for you, when the Bighold expresses something in a majority remark, to take note of it and follow it up when you go into government relations? Of course you can hold on by saying no, we won't stick to this. In the Christian People's Party we've said that OK, we lost that case, now we're going to see how we can do the best of what's going to happen. The representative, Rui, is a contributing reason why the position that exists today is a majority position, because it is in line with what the Labour Party meant. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e279	The representative Marthinsen is from Helgeroa, and he knows very much about being in the same boat, and what I tried to describe was that we are in the same boat. And then I immediately say that turning was not a Christian People's Party alone. But when you send something back and ask for an investigation, you do it to try to get better understanding of what it is asked for. And when we're not satisfied with what we get back, we think we shouldn't. Then I think it's right to do what we've done in this case and say no, we think it should be the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e284	In order to prevent Mr Marthinsen from asking for the floor to clarify a misunderstanding, the President will state that the representative Marthinsen is from Nevlunghamn. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e290	It's not like you have to be localized in Westfold in order to be able to participate in this debate, but Marthinsen, after all, represents Buskerud, we can bring it with you today. This has been a matter where positions have been turned around in the head, and the surprises have been waiting. When the government presented this case, it was, as previously mentioned, based on the treatment St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001, the Court of First Instance in the future, was given last year in Stortingen. During the examination of this Communication, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Right, said that: ‘identification in real estate is not a type of exercise of powers which implies that this task is necessarily dealt with by the courts and that there is no direct link between the facts and the other tasks of the courts. Moreover, the task is outside the central tasks of the courts which are judicial activities.’.» I want to underline it one more time, because it was an important premise for the treatment that the Government laid down. So the majority asked that this be investigated further, but stressed that the clarification of matters should be taken out of the courts. This has been followed up by the Government, and the government parties and the Progress Party follow it up in today's setting. It's obviously not popular for the Workers' Party to talk about the snow that fell last year. Two days ago, we experienced in the case of free legal aid that the party had turned around completely in relation to the position taken in May 2000. Today we experience that they have turned 180 degrees in relation to the position taken on 21 May 2001. It's okay to think new, but drawing a totally opposite conclusion to what you thought a year ago is pretty strong. I will present the main content of the majority's views, views that will provide Norway with a modern, electronic message of things and the public with opportunities for efficient, good service. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, support the main features of the Ministry's proposal, but propose that property exploration be transferred from the courts to a central unit and that it be organised under the head office of the Staten Kartverk at Hønefoss. This unit must have sufficient professional competence, including legal competence. We believe it is important that the tasks of the courts be transferred to the Staten Kartverk when a new computer system is in place. There will be a need to spend some time putting a new computer system into operation. The new system shall be completed by 1 July 2004. And then it's true, as the representative Rui points out in his remarks and from the pulpit, that the State's mapping works have no luminosity expertise today. No, why should they have it, because they haven't had any responsibility for this task at all? That's exactly the competence we're going to build up. I am absolutely sure that at least one great advantage of the state's mapping system over the courts is that it is one of the country's leading IT companies and is well advanced in implementing, putting in place new solutions and new technologies. The majority believe that it may make sense to centralise when electronic documents have been used for a certain period of time, so that there is some experience to build on. This will mean that the reorganisation must be carried out over a period of time. It should therefore be left to the Government to assess the time perspective for the implementation of the reform. Implementation should also be seen in the context of judicial reform. Consideration may be given to the fact that the transfer should be carried out more quickly than planned, e.g.: whose employees in the courts end up faster than expected. Several of the cases should be merged, and in brackets noted: the reform of the Court of Justice was a reform which the Workers' Party was behind, and which the Workers' Party proposed to be implemented, and I expect that when Rui was concerned about the smaller district courts, there was a similar concern when the judicial reform was adopted with the Labour Party's votes. But the district courts have to merge, some of them, and at the time of the merger, it'll be natural to transfer things to the central directory of things, so that you get a gradual phase-in. The State Hønefoss Map is one of the most advanced public enterprises in Norway in terms of IT competence. At the same time, it has a very good overview of properties through the GAB register, which is a nationwide public register of important physical conditions relating to properties. The majority believe that guidance and information will be primarily a responsibility for the state’s mapping works, but also municipalities should be given a certain responsibility for this, for example. be able to look up the base book database and provide users with information on the information contained therein. This will, in the majority's view, give users greater flexibility than they have today. The municipalities are in the process of building public service offices, and you will then have far more places to check out directory data than you have today, and you will also have the opportunity to do simple tasks at the municipal offices. The County Map Offices will include, inter alia: be able to gain greater professional competence by transferring some of today's employees to the courts and that the employees of the municipality already have a good basis for further training in the field. Municipalities will also be able to pass on difficult questions to the County Map Office or to central State Maps. It is important to stress that the majority is adding to the centralisation of the directory, but at the same time we would stress that it must be possible to provide public services at local offices, public service offices or at county-cartel offices that are online with the central directory of things on Henefoss. The majority believe that it must be a long-term objective to add the procedural tasks to the municipalities to a greater extent, possibly as an intercommunal task. In the case of the mortgage book register, this shall be a centralised unit under Staten Kartverk but located at Ullensvang i Hardanger. The majority would stress that bringing together the mortgage book register in one place leads to economies of scale and that it would also provide for a more consistent application of the regulatory framework with its effectiveness. With the use of modern communication technology, there will be no significant disadvantage in not locating the mortgage book register to the central object lighting unit on Hennefoss. I am happy to say that Ullenswang and Hardanger, who have been foreseen in this matter, and who have worked actively with the matter, will now be admitted approx. 20 new state jobs. This is important in a region with major challenges but at the same time high potential. The majority will stress that the Ministry of Justice will be responsible for the process further. The Ministry of Justice should have the opportunity to assess the division of tasks between the central unit and the unit of Hardanger, and between the central units, county agencies and municipalities, until the responsibility for the full disclosure of matters is transferred to the Ministry of the Environment and the State Maps. This is important to emphasise, especially in the light of the situation of employees. The goal is clear: we're going to get a modern, centralized lighting unit. The path to the objective must be a smooth process, with the Ministry of Justice as guarantor and quality assurance for the transfer of tasks to be carried out from the rights of the cause to the central directory. Of course, it is also entirely dependent on the continuous and uninterrupted transfer of information from the rights of property to the central clearing register. It is therefore important that the transfer takes place gradually and in line with the implementation of the judicial reform. The majority would point out that the message stresses that the county authorities should mainly be located in the county headquarters. Now there will be a slightly different model for the County Map Offices, and the majority will therefore stress that the County Map Office in Buskerud will still be located at Drammen. There has been a little debate on this, to say it carefully, and in our opinion there is nothing to suggest that it is necessary to move the county office in the Drammen to Henfoss. The majority have made the following proposals, which have become today's suspension of the decision: ‘I The government is asking for the establishment of a central directory of property information relating to the head office of the Staten Kartverk in Ringerijke kommune. II The Government requests the establishment of a central mortgage book register in Ullensvang heread.» With this, we are given a clarification of the uncertainty created, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the further implementation, and the State's Cartwork will play a very central role in the construction of the directory and the mortgage book register. The state's mapping works have a solid position in Ringerijke, a region that has also had to endure severe cuts in state jobs, approx. 500 years' work, after both Eggemoen, Hvalsmoen and Helgelandsmoen have been decided upon. Today’s decision will introduce new jobs to the region, but most importantly, the strong competence environment associated with the State’s mapping of Henefoss will be further strengthened, with the positive ring-effects it will have for other industrial activities in the region. I am pleased that the majority, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement and the Right, have now gathered on a common position in this matter, that we are finally getting to know where things are going, and that we are ending the uncertainty that has been created through the consideration of this matter. So I strongly recommend that the setting be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e355	Right will ensure that responsibility for the settlement of matters in permanent possession is transferred from the courts to a central entity organised under the Staten Kartverk. This is a large-scale centralization, from today's 64 tracts to a 19-office state model, a model that the Right has previously stated does not represent an adequate decentralised solution. This is probably an attack on district policy. In addition, such a model weakens its user-friendliness. The right concerns a major modernisation of the public sector, not least a better use of resources. What Right Now does, gives cork administrative or economic benefits. What's the difference between Right and Right? The debate has taken place in the past. When it comes to this reorganization, we know that today the courts are doing very well in the field of information, which is also very public-friendly. Thus, with reference to previous treatments, the Right has proposed in several budgetary settings to privatise the State's mapping works. But then the Right says that privatisation should be done before adding more public tasks to the Map. Now it doesn't happen in this game. But is the main objective of the representative of Greece to privatise things in the long term, or is it such that the Right will continue to insist that it be a public service?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e362	The main point for the Right, and I thought it was also for the Workers' Party, is to get the best possible object intelligence service – an electronic object intelligence service, which allows the public to have a completely different access to and a completely different opportunity to do object intelligence and check information via the central database. When it became as it was in this case, it was not due to the Right, and that the Right has turned around. This is because the Arbeiderpartiet has made a curve jump that is almost unparalleled in this hall. The government was commissioned by the Workers' Party and the Right to arrange for a transfer to the Government's Cartwork, which the Government has followed up. So the Workers' Party jumped off in the first turn. Then we had to sit down and negotiate, and I am very happy with the solution we have now received. But it's the Workers' Party that has chosen to jump off, and that in a way has created this uncertainty, among other things. by modifying the state-of-the-art model launched by the Government. However, I'm very happy that we're getting this, because if we're going to have a modern lighting of things where a get attached to property information – both the lighting of things, the GAB register and other things – together, then choosing the State's mapping is absolutely the best thing. We have not used the term "privatisation" in one word in this setting or mentioned it. We've actually been discussing the facts as the public service it is, and we've chosen to focus on it. The cart is an agency belonging to the Ministry of the Environment, and I have not found it right as a member and head of the Justice Committee to address issues related to the organisation of the cart. What we've gone into is the organization of things. So I'm very comfortable with this solution, and I'm surprised that the Workers' Party so easily jumps from old promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e373	In the main message submitted by the Government, this was discussed with centralisation. There, on page 49, the Government writes the following: ‘Centralisation would be a complete breach of the current professional competence of the district courts... In a transitional period, it would easily lead to an increase in the length of proceedings and poor provision of guidance. There is also a risk of lower quality of what is registered... Even with significant financial resources, centralisation would imply a far-reaching process of conversion that the measures cannot be expected to result in a risk-free transition.» I wonder if the representative of Greece can tell me why this suddenly no longer lasts. The representative of Greece is talking about a smooth process. How is he to achieve this when his own government has said that ‘even with considerable financial resources, centralisation will entail a process of transformation so far that it cannot be expected that the measures will lead to a risk-free transition’?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e383	I think I used approx. 4 minutes of my 10 minutes post to describe that process. That is why I feel that the question that is being asked is actually answered. The reason for this is that when we now make a conversion to the central lighting unit, we do it in a smooth way – as I also said. We do this by building up a pilot at the Staten Kartsverk, developing the computer tool here, and gradually transferring the task of questioning when implementing the judicial reform, that is. that if two rights of way are merged, it is natural to release the facts from the court and transfer them to the central register. It is also in the premise for judicial reform. This means that you will have a certain drive-in period during which the Cartel can develop and put in place the necessary data tools, where they can build up the central competence – legal and professional – at the Headquarters of the Cartel, and where you will gradually be able to get things straight from different districts of the country. It is absolutely essential that you have a continuous lighting of things. You can't take a break from it, or you can say that now we have to take a month's break with things lit in our state. I can't. These are things that happen every day, things that are going to happen. That is why it is important to develop this pilot, this model on Henfoss, and to start transferring the tasks gradually. But there won't be a Big Bang. It doesn't make everything transmitted at the same time. It'll be a gradual transfer. That is why I am sure that this will be done in a satisfactory and good way, and that is why the Ministry of Justice has also been given the overall responsibility for implementation, so that we can ensure that our competences are respected and that we can get a continuous briefing without problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e390	This has been discussed over time in connection with a roll-out report. It has done a lot of work, and it has come to the conclusion that it is extremely difficult to achieve a transitional system that is so good that it will not lead to a poorer quality of things. And then I wonder what's happened in two days and -- I'm counting on -- two nights, where you've been sitting and humming together in an office. Have you managed to find such good arrangements in such a short time – something you could not get when you worked with this message in a very thorough way? I don't feel safe about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e398	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e401	What have we done in my office? At least we haven't done what Thorkildsen suggested. We've had conversations, but not nightly conversations. There was no need, because it was very easy to find an agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party in this matter. What's the starting point here is the government's model. That's what we're based on. That's what we've actually been thinking about, but we've said that we want a greater degree of centralization. The message also states that when the County Map Offices were to be drawn into the picture, there was a transitional arrangement, a temporary solution. What has been important, and which also the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party agree with us, is that we must have a good public service. We must have a public service that is better than today, because the municipal service office or planning and construction office in the municipality or, in some cases, the county office of the Agency will be public reception, where people can come. But I want to add that per. Today, as far as I've heard, it's about... 15 pst. of the briefing carried out by the person in person. 85 pst. goes by post. In Sweden, they have put in place a more central system. It's good over 90 pst., 95 pst. or 99 pst. – I’m not quite sure about the number, but I’ve heard someone suggest something about it – that’s going on electronically or by post. This will be the case in Norway as well. This will be a service that will take place online, which will be carried out with electronic signature when developed. That is why there is a much more forward-looking solution that we have now chosen than the Workers' Party and SV rely on, namely a model that will also burden the courts more than is necessary. The courts shall have jurisdiction and shall not have jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e414	The tinglysing in Norway per year. Today works well. It has been claimed, especially from the Workers' Party, that since the practical nature of the process is not problematic, nothing should be done with it either, one in and of itself good, old-fashioned, stock conservative attitude. The question is whether we should be in the forefront and therefore reorganize in view of the needs of the future. There is nothing in principle that suggests that there is absolutely a part of the judicial power that must be in charge of the administrative management of keeping the information files. It would probably also be an advantage in this context if the administration were put under the ordinary administration, that is, the executive, and in this way a clearer distinction and clearer lines were found between the administration and the judicial function. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure good legal competence where the quality assurance of what is to be disclosed and what is to be refused clarification of matters takes place. In this context, we see it as easier to build a central and well-functioning professional environment than 18 regional environments. There will also be fewer actors for users to deal with. In other words, it would be less problematic to know which properties belong to which registration unit. The progress party is pleased that the pawnbook is located at Ullensvang in Hardanger. Having a central copy register with a comprehensive archive system is a clear advantage. Having said this, it will be essential for a well-functioning central unit to carry out digitisation as quickly as possible. This will facilitate the use of employees and also access for users. There is no reason for copying copies to start before moving. It can start right away, and then in and of itself also simplify the move over to Ullensvang. A very positive contribution to a forward-looking discussion of matters is that the majority of the Committee also advocates a central clearing house, i.e. one office and one body. As mentioned above, it will be possible to build a good legal competence for quality assurance of the work carried out. It will also be an advantage in interacting with the mortgage book that there is one thing-listing and one copy-listing register. Of course, having 55 or 18 units to operate would create more work without necessarily better quality. It will, of course, also have to be such that, on a central level, a well-functioning leadership unit has to be built up. It would be useful here to seek to alter the competence already existing in this field. In other words, it is particularly important to bring together people who would like to work further in the national directory. Digitalisation, especially in relation to users, is also important in relation to the central directory. In order for this to run smoothly, the Progress Party sees the need to initiate digitisation now and to move things forward as the respective leadership units in today’s system are digitised and ready to be transmitted. In the case of good digitalisation, user accessibility will be better than today. When both the object lighting and the mortgage book are sufficiently digitised, it will be possible to retrieve all relevant information for anyone who will be linked to the registers. This means that both municipalities and other relevant actors in need of this information get good and improved accessibility beyond their own needs. This would be particularly appropriate for the placing on the market of properties outside their geographical vicinity. Both the technical departments and the service units of the municipalities will be able to give a more comprehensive picture of the actual appearance of a property. It is possible for a person to receive printing not only by regulation status, but also by the waiters to which the property is covered. So you can get a complete picture without having to run around from office to office that has a large geographic distance. To what extent municipalities will be able to perform more tasks than just print, you will get back to them. In this context, quality and safety are essential. Nevertheless, I would just like to mention that as long as the final object lighting test is going to be central, it might be congruent to the time that might be of interest, i.e. some kind of receipt for submitted, but not finally validated object lighting. In the case of object illumination, as I said, guidance and testing shall be carried out centrally. At the same time, we see that there is a great deal of expertise in those who are currently dealing with things. This competence should be ensured in the best possible way by the Cartwork. This would be appropriate for the overall work of the Cartwork to be carried out in other areas as well. By securing this competence, including through the County Maps Offices, good and not least comprehensive guidance could be provided to municipalities and other operators in the property market. This is a big message. So the government comes back with the concrete proposals for legislative changes that have to be made. This is in the context of the question of objective liability for errors, the question of the concrete role of municipalities and such things. And some of the details that have previously been in the debate outside this Chamber will, of course, only get their final clarification in connection with the Government's proposals in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e443	I think there is reason to pay tribute to the Progress Party in this debate, because this is the first article that is being held, where one really goes into the realities and does not depend on what the government parties have been up to, and which in my opinion makes that it should light a warning lamp for all of us in all debates where the main argument rests on what other parties have thought before, and what has been written in old notes, etc. This is just a matter of going in and looking at what is as effective as possible, and you actually asked for more investigation. Then it's not like the representative Marthinsen suggests, that the parties here on the Stortinget are almost bound by the previous decision on big business. Neither the Christian People's Party nor the Workers' Party are bound by it, especially in such a case as this. But I have to ask some questions to the Progress Party. Is it a pleasure now to be in a position where you actually make more bureaucracy by building up two central institutions, one for the mortgage book and one for the other? Is this effective government, even pointing to the role of state-of-the-art agencies? Is this a rational government? And how does the Progress Party address the content of the role of the County Map Offices? What do you think the state-of-the-art offices are going to do in this new model?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e450	As I said, the Progress Party is very pleased with the model we have now received. The question of having one or two leads, of whether the copy archive should be in Ullensvang or also built on Henefoss, is, in fact, a rather immaterial matter. The important thing is to get central, uniform registers and not, as the Workers' Party wants, 55 different registers with partly random border crossings. So now we've meant, and still believe, that when something is central, the quality assurance of the leadership has to be done centrally. But, as I said in the post, it's important to be able to give a very good guide to the municipalities and to the real estate users, to those who want to buy and sell properties. Then I find it difficult to see that there are some problems in providing the county offices of the Swedish Agency with the opportunity to associate themselves with the expertise in the field of task management, which will, of course, provide the opportunity to provide information and guidance, both in the field of maps and in the field of case studies, and perhaps in the area of regulatory matters. It may not be a problem for users in the Kingdom of Norway to receive comprehensive guidance from one body and not necessarily to spend several days calling several instances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e457	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e460	This has been – to put it mildly – a strange experience for us who have had no role whatsoever in playing in what was the result of this case. From a message that stated that the clarification of matters was to be added to the county departments of the Agency, to believe that we should be able to form a majority in order to keep the facts in the courts as they are today, we have thus ended up with what I would think very few would have, namely that the illuminance function should be completely centralised. Full penetration of the Advance Party in other words. Why in the world has this happened? In my and SV's view, this is the second worst solution, and I think we'll have it confirmed when these changes are launched into life. Tinglysing is a subject where the courts have provided training for civil servants. This has provided close and important cooperation between officials and judges. Experienced people have been the most important courts have been able to offer, people who are effective, competent, accurate. There has been no delay in the job that has been done, which includes: is confirmed by the low number of claims made by the public. So in addition, the courts have the advantage that they're more decentralised than the other options, so closer to the audience. In addition, this local connection means that those who work in courts have a great and important knowledge of the community they are to serve. Finally, this is about women's jobs in districts, jobs that will now largely disappear. For SV, it is also important that employees, the Consumer Council, many courts and municipalities want to keep the current system, and believe that it will be the best. We believe that what is now happening will mean a weakening of the object lighting function. In the hearing opinions delivered to the Ministry of Justice, the following comes for one day: A majority of the courts and a large majority of the municipalities believe that if the proceedings are to be taken out of the courts, a county model is preferable to a centralised model. The Norwegian Real Estate Agency believes the same thing, because many of its members will need to meet in person to carry out their errands, which will become extremely much more difficult after focusing on things – to Hönefoss! Someone pointed out during the hearing that it is not easy to get to and from there either. Norwegian Property information also prefers a county model rather than a centralised model, etc. As far as I could see, it was just ZebSign AS and NHO who explicitly have a complete centralization as their first choice. I will quote again from page 49 of the message at the risk of fatigue: ‘Centralisation would be a complete breach of the professional competence currently available in the main proceedings. ... During a transitional period, it will easily lead to increased processing time and poor guidance services. There is also a risk of lower quality of what is recorded. ... Even with significant financial resources, centralisation would imply a far-reaching process of conversion that the measures could not be expected to lead to a risk-free transition.’ What's changed since last time? This is completely incomprehensible to me, and it is not pleasant, I think, to send the following message out to the employees and the audience in this case: We are going for this, anyway!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e476	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e479	Just to clarify it, there's no one in the majority, as I've heard, who has claimed that the employees of the District Courts per. I have not done a good job today. That's not what this is about. The representative of Thorkildsen was very concerned about the question of decentralization. From my point of view, it would be easier and easier to have one digitised register than 55 different digitised registers when this is to be operated from the user's point of view. If you get a register with municipal ties, you have 434 municipalities, while you only have 55 dishes. Does Inga Marte Thorkildsen mean that it is more decentralised to add information to users of 55 rights than to provide information to users of 434 municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e486	So the representative for Kukkestad's information, there's 64 District Courts it's going to be, not 55. What I think is a point, is that we should use the new information technology to decentralize, not to centralize. Just by giving us that opportunity, we can maintain a settlement in this country, as SV seems to be an advantage, but as the Progress Party sees it is a bit of a customs duty. Nor is it the case that municipalities should disclose things in their model. They shall provide guidance. The municipalities are not able to disclose things. So here I really don't understand what the representative Kukkestad is talking about at all. This is because it is a matter of placing the object lighting function in one place – that is, on Henefoss – and then you have to be able to provide guidance in the municipalities. But if this is the case in the municipalities too, I just have to be allowed to wish for happiness, because I don't understand how these representatives intend to get that expertise out in so many places, when it will already be difficult to get them to move to the county-cartel offices, which is 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e495	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e498	How are things to be organised in the future? That's what we have to decide today. The matter has also been dealt with in Stortinget in the past. For the treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001, the future of the Courts of First Instance, was a theme of the organisation of proceedings. At the time, the Christian People's Party was not in line with the majority of the committee, neither in the case of the number of courts we were supposed to have – and I think, in order to enter with a never-small confession, that the representative Thorkildsen probably doesn't know how many courts there will be in the future, so we should be a little cautious about specifying the number – or when it was about the organisation of things. The Christian People's Party wanted to keep more small courts than what the majority voted for. Then it was also natural to think that the clarification of things should remain in the courts, precisely in view of maintaining these. I would also like to stress that the work carried out in the courts in this area on the clearance of matters so far has been very good. The proximity of the inhabitants and users has been and is important for the Christian People's Party. At the same time, we were aware that the majority would not support our proposals, and for this reason we said the following: ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party take note of the majority’s proposal to ask the Ministry to consider different options for solutions, and ask the Ministry to investigate the Hardanger Register as well as a register attached to the Staten Kartverk.’ It was important for us to ensure that several alternatives were explored. The case has been at the hearing, and there are different opinions about what should be done. The current government's proposal is like the previous government proposal, that the hearing be taken out of the courts and added to the state agency's chart. The Christian People's Party has ended up at a different position this time in relation to the last. We have taken note that the ministry still believes that the undoubtedly best solution will be to organise the art of things under the direction of the Staten Kartverk. It will make it user-friendly and easy to collect all property information in one place. A new nationwide computer system will be used from 1 July 2004. This means that all the records will be made in the same base. I would also like to comment on what the representative of Storberget said in a reply to the representative of Kukkestad a little while ago, in a speech by the undersigned's reply to the representative of Rui on the same matter, that we should have problems dealing with a majority, and that we should be bound in the future. It's not like that,' said the representative Storberget. That's right. The party is not bound by the majority of the Storting, but the Government is bound by it. It would otherwise be strange if the Christian People's Party, which is part of this government, would go against its own government in such an important field as this. The Christian People's Party has stated that we want things to be transferred to a central unit at the Staten Kartverk. This unit will have the opportunity to build a good professional, including legal – and I stress it – competence. It will benefit the inhabitants. An important point for the Christian People's Party is that this organisation gives the government's mappings the opportunity to organise the practical work as it is most appropriate, among other things. by using regional offices for guidance and information tasks to the public. We believe that the Ministry of Justice should have the opportunity to assess the division of tasks between the central unit and the county agencies. Corresponding possibilities should also be provided by the Ministry in relation to the Hardanger unit and in relation to the municipalities. The Christian People's Party believes it is desirable that municipalities take greater responsibility for guidance and information and in the long term also take part in the proceedings. For residents around Norway, it is easier to get to a municipal centre than to go to a court, especially according to the new court structure. Service offices in municipalities around Norway can provide assistance in many areas. It has to be a goal that they can also be helpful in this area. It's important to be close to the people. We in the Christian People's Party are aware that it may take some time before we achieve this, but we believe this will be a good solution. In the case of the mortgage book register, the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to add it to Ullensvang's lord. Compilation of the mortgage book register in one place will give rise to economies of scale. Another important point is that the enforcement of legislation will be more consistent and will benefit citizens. The Hardanger Register was a discussed topic the previous time the case was being dealt with. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has made an appropriate allocation of work tasks. We do not think it is right, as the Workers' Party claims, that the organisation of the Preservation Book Register in Ullenswang will lead to further work and increased time-use. With today's communication systems there should be no reason to claim such a thing. That we also get some extra jobs in Hardanger, the Christian People's Party cannot see as something critical. In this case, more than Christian People's Party have changed their positions. There is a lot to be said about, but in the Christian People's Party we have at least chosen a model that has its future in mind. This model will ensure a consistent practice of legislation, while, in the long term, improving the provision of services to users through the involvement of municipalities. For the Christian People's Party, the train went for the clarification of matters when the majority proposed a different organisation of the courts. We fought hard to make the solution a different one. When we first lost that fight, we are not backward-looking, but willing to look at the organization again. That is what we have done today, and we are confident that the result has been good. Finally, I would like to point out that the chart editor has stated publicly that he will drop the county map office in Drammen if he is not under political scrutiny. This over-test takes place in the setting, where it says: ‘The majority would therefore stress that the County Map Office in Buskerud will continue to be located in the Drammen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e540	We can now give the representative Marthinsen the opportunity to adjust again. The Christian People's Party now has the opportunity to participate in the formation of a majority for what is really the original position of the Christian People's Party, and which they very clearly expressed in the Inner. S. No 242 for 2000-2001. I will not bother Stortingen to refer from the comments there, but what was said in the comments was very good. It's sad that the Christian People's Party has now gone back on that. I am very concerned that the removal of material light means the removal of several filth printers offices around the country, including. in Kragerø. We are concerned that this weakens important trade unions and that valuable jobs are lost. Does the representative Marthinsen share our concerns about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e549	I can assure the representative Olsen that if the Workers' Party had read with the same understanding when we wrote the comments a little over a year ago, and had joined these very good comments that the Workers' Party now believes this is, the matter had changed. These were very good comments, but they were not then fit to convince the Workers' Party. They took a completely different position and created a majority for another position. We've taken note of that. But now that the Workers' Party has turned around, they want us to turn our backs on our own government. There has never, as far as I have registered, been any particular tradition in the Workers' Party to turn my back on his own government. It's almost to demand too much, that one should demand it from the Christian People's Party just because the Workers' Party itself has turned around. It goes over a low shoe, I think, maybe even over boots when you demand this. Concerns about jobs – yes, we are concerned about people who are at work, who may not be allowed to continue in the same function in the future, and who find it difficult to get into work. Of course, we share that concern with that, and we will also be able to contribute if it is possible in any way, within what is the Storting's ability to find good solutions. But I would like to stress: it is also intended that as many of these as possible should be able to continue in the context of guidance and assistance in the future. But the fact that people get out of work should be a concern for all parties. I don't believe and hope that many won't be as a result of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e556	It is said, as I have previously referred a few times today, from the Ministry of Justice the following on page 49 of the Storing Message: ‘Even with significant financial resources, centralisation will imply a far-reaching transition process that cannot be expected to result in a risk-free transition.’ My question is, what are ‘significant financial resources’?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e566	The question should have been asked to the Council of State. I therefore leave the Council of State to answer that question when the time comes for him to have the word. I do not have any figures or calculations in front of me and therefore cannot answer such a specific question as the representative of Thorkildsen here asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e571	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e574	The central party does not have a member of the Judicial Committee and the view of the party is therefore not made visible in the vote. That's why I want to explain the view of the Center Party. The centre party opposes the transfer of information from the district courts and to the Staten Kartsverk. We believe that this is a centralization that does not serve our territories, which does not serve the public. Interestingly, while information technology in other countries is being used as a means of decentralisation, the same technology seems to be being used as an argument for centralisation in our country. Today, petitions have great competence, and this competence will disappear when this change is made. There is also no support for the Centre Party, that competence should be transferred from the districts, and that there should also be a centralisation of competence. They are also vulnerable because they are often small. And when one removes this competence, one also makes the rights of things vulnerable. Today, the lighting of things works very well. There is no one who has said that the clarification of matters in the District Courts is not working. What the audience is experiencing is that they get easy help, it's availability, they get fixed on documents, etc. to enable rapid and effective identification of matters. So the center part is moving towards moving things into the state's cart. We are also going to move the mortgage book register from the property rights. But I would like to say the following: the Socialist Left Party has a comment where they point out that the majority of the Committee is insisting that the central directory for information on matters should be located at the Staten Kartverk headquarters in Ringerijk. And from that point of view, the Central Party will also subsidize that the mortgage book register is located in Ullensvang. Ullenswang herred is in a region that has lost many jobs. Hardanger is a region where relocation has taken place. So, in other words, we think it's right to put the mortgage book register where one first has to centralise in this area. For Hardanger, Ullensvang – yes, the whole region – jobs are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e589	The future organisation of real estate property clearing was also for debate in this room a year ago. The reason why the proposal to take the case out of the courts is not due to criticism of the work done in the case before us today. On the contrary, many people believe that the courts have handled this in an excellent way. However, when I believe that the time has come to make a change, it is because of the developments that have taken place and will continue to be marked by the coming years. The development of the property market imposes new requirements on the information that users want from the public and the way it is available. I also believe that it is important to strengthen the local connection by adding parts of the contact with the users to the municipalities. The mapping model takes account of these considerations. In the government's proposal, there are in particular five issues that have had an impact on me: 1st@item: inlistbox The task is transferred from the courts to the Staten Kartverk.2. The pawnbook is centralized to Hardanger.3. Municipalities are given an active role.4. The implementation shall take place within a time-frame appropriate to the other amendments affecting the courts.5. The task is added to the County Map Offices. I am pleased that it has now been possible to reach a clear political majority and thus agree that the courts will be relieved of this task, that responsibility will be transferred to the State Cartwork, that Hardanger will receive the mortgage book, and that the municipalities will have an active role. The majority of the Judicial Committee proposes that the task be centralised on Henefoss. This, of course, will be dealt with and followed up by the Department. However, I notice that the county maps offices and municipalities can also be assigned important tasks, following the assessment of the majority of the committee. The future work will clarify the further division of responsibilities here. An important aspect of the reform is the possibility of providing users with aggregated property information. It's no longer just the materialized encumbrances that are of interest. Other public information on a property, such as property boundaries, technical data relating to the buildings, maps and control plans, also affects the value and exploitation of the property. Today, responsibility is shared by the districts responsible for the clearance of matters and the municipalities/communities/cartel offices for the other information. Users therefore need to contact several sites in order to gain full knowledge of property-related matters. The reform therefore ensures high-quality overall property information for users. At the same time, the possibilities offered by electronic documents are being exploited. This implies a gain both for the public and for the users. Centralisation is a major upheaval for today's court officials. There will be a need for some of the information workers in the local guidance service to be established. The reform we are talking about will extend over a longer period due to the first series of judicial reform. It is my hope that we will get flexible and flexible solutions for our employees. The essential thing for me is the opportunity offered by the proposal for more decentralised services. Information and guidance on facts-finding are currently provided only by the courts. The proposal extends the offer in such a way that not only the central unit but also the county maps offices and municipalities can be contacted. It has to be, for example: be able to be looked up and printed from the base book. In the long term, municipalities can also have a further central role. In addition to information on what is recorded, users shall also receive local guidance. Employees of the municipality already have a good basis for further training in the field. Some tasks may be transferred to the County Map Offices, and it may therefore be relevant that some employees of the Courts begin there. It is a long-term goal that the municipalities or intercommunal service offices not only provide guidance and information, but can also be assigned case handler tasks. The proposal therefore provides great flexibility in a perspective for a few decades to come. The choice of the future organisational model for the settlement of matters does not affect the future structure of the courts. This nevertheless affects the manning, the need for premises and other matters relevant to the implementation of the established structure of the courts at first instance. It is therefore important to make a decision now on how to organise the clearing of matters. This is important for the judicial reform that Stortinget has previously dealt with. The government proposes to archive the pawnbook, which contains copies of all materialistic documents from 1935 to Hardanger. This 2000 shelving metre archive will then be centralized to Ullensvang as a unit under the Cartwork. With modern communication technology, a copy of the mortgage book can be transmitted digitally to the central unit in Ringerijk and others as easily as if the mortgage book was stored in the basement of the central unit. Overall, I would say that the reform will give the public easier access to all public property information. It facilitates future decentralisation to the municipalities, if such development is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e636	I know that the government parties are very happy that in the opposition we read the Sem declaration, their government statement. From the Sem Declaration I would therefore quote: «Public sector and public services exist for each of us. Public agencies should have such a service perspective for their activities. At the same time, individuals must be assured that they receive the public services they require when they need them. The state is for the citizens, not the other way around. The co-operation administration will have a public sector that is user-oriented, service-oriented, efficient and tailored to the very different needs and needs of its citizens. The Co-operation Board will promote competition in order to contribute to good resource use and improved quality. It needs to be easier for individuals to access the services they need. Everyone will receive an equivalent offer regardless of their place of residence and personal finances. The Co-operation Board will work to this end through user orientation, clearer responsibilities between administrative levels and improved accessibility....» Of all the things that are read in the Sem statement, I cannot help but understand that one – at least in this case – is going in the opposite direction to what the Sem statement says. I heard the council say in his post that he believes that it is going the right way. But when he also says that this might take longer than what is in the majority remarks, and when he hasn't yet told us what this is going to cost, I'd like to know from the Council of State: how long is this going to take? And what's that going to cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e650	The answer to the fascinating cost question could have been received by the Committee by sending a written question to the Ministry. It has not been used by the Committee, nor by the representative, Mr Rui, through the Committee. In the proceedings it is such that when a notification is pending, it is dealt with in the Storting. That's what clears up the government's further mission then, and we'll follow it, of course. Now I am not going to contribute to the reading, either – according to memory – of the Workers' Party's programme or from previous government documents from the Workers' Party, even if I know them well. I should just be careful to say the following: What is available is that the government does not get through its arrangement as we put it, but that we get a better setup than what the Workers' Party and SV stand for. We've made it quite clear that the worst of all the solutions we're facing is for different reasons to stick to today's structure. First of all, because one then has to use facts-finding information in the courts, while one has to look for other information elsewhere. It's not user-friendly. Secondly, because we then lock down a service development that we believe can be better solved by what is now being promoted through the majority proposal. It's not like the government's proposal, but it's much closer to all the purposes that we had, and we prefer, of course, such a solution. The solution of the working party is nothing but to say that what has been, and that has been good, will always remain good. In fact, in this big message, we have argued clearly why we don't believe anything about it. We've made it clear. We have also made it clear why we believe that the service is serviced with a change, as suggested. The solution of the majority takes care of the majority of our concerns. There's no doubt about it. They ensure user-friendliness. They also provide an opportunity for a decentralised service, which I explained in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e665	Since instead the representative Marthinsen would not answer what ‘significant financial resources’ are, but referred to the Council of State, who did not want to answer this either, I will ask the question a little less precisely. Since it states that considerable financial resources are needed, but even if it is not possible to assume that the measures entail a risk-free transition, I will at least conclude that more than significant financial resources need to be allocated. The question will then be: Will more than significant financial resources be allocated to reduce the risk of this transition? The question to the Council of State was really about something else, so I must be allowed to ask a few more. It's on page 49 in St.meld. No 13: ‘There is also a risk of a lower quality of what is recorded’. And can the Council of State say here and now that additional funds will be granted to meet any costs resulting from public claims if quality is damaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e677	All the questions that a number of minority representatives are now asking could actually be answered by addressing the ministry. That's the usual procedure. When you haven't done that, it's actually my duty as a councillor to deal with the message that's in the main hall, and I do. Of course, I want to get back in the right way with the answers that will then be given, so that I will have a chance to process them. The sentences quoted by the representative Thorkildsen, she reads in a context that suits her argument, but she overlooks the context that the option that we least want is the option that she wants most, that is to keep the structure of the day. I have already said that in that context, of course, we prefer something closer to the position we originally put forward, which gives us a chance to provide a better technical service than what the minority suggests. And then it's our job to get back to it, because the majority has given us a number of challenges, and I've said in my post that we will have to get back to them. Then I was asked the question that I am always asked, and that I have a standard answer to: I do not promise money until I have the money. Actually, I haven't deviated. I even got a cheerful reply from a sitting president, who said that it was free to deliver promises in the Storting, and at that time allowed the president in the good mood sign that I replied back that distributing promises at a time when one did not have an overview of it, was not a wise course of action from a council. I am responsible for what Stortinget imposes on me. This is actually the second case where representatives of the opposition have not asked for information. When we discussed the case of free legal aid and many important values in this connection, we asked, for example: not on important cost issues. You did not find it important enough, but you drove the case anyway. I took note of that, but it is clear that it poses challenges for those who will follow up. Those challenges are the obligation of a Council of State and a government to follow up, and they will also be followed up in this matter. Conclusion: We get a solution that is far better than the one that is the alternative, and that is promoted here today by representatives from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e690	First of all, I think it is strange that a government council that will have an overview of the issues he is dealing with, can at least not estimate anything about what this will cost. Secondly, he makes a point that we haven't asked the department's answer to what it's going to cost. But it was only right before we gave the case, we got to what the majority really wanted in this case. It is not so easy to get answers to questions when we are about to give the setting the day after. In this way, we have not had the opportunity to raise those questions after the majority comments had been made. I think it's strange that you don't have a certain overview of a cost increase in your own department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e700	I'll guard myself carefully to go into what a committee can do. I just want to show that yesterday morning, in a completely different matter, the department received a specific question that was answered by noon. 16th@item: inlistbox It is clear that we are trying to reach as far as we can to answer questions when the Storting believes that the information is important. When you have not chosen this right, I think it is a perfectly fair situation. That is what is the starting point for the debate. We'll have to get back to all the cost questions. We would have had to do it if we had got through the ideal model that was in our proposal. Of course we had to. In any case, there would have been a budgetary matter that the Storting had to decide on. What I say about the time perspective is nothing but the following: the judicial reform at first instance will be carried out in accordance with the plans from 2002 to 2007, and it is quite reasonable to see the phase-in of the information reform in such a context. But in order to know what to plan, in relation to the person with the constitutional responsibility – me – and not least in relation to the employees, it is important to know that one has a time horizon and that one can plan in such a way as to create predictability for all parties. These things are connected, but by making a decision, we get a chance to sort, both for those who are going to run the lighting function, for those who are going to develop new services, and not least for those who are employed, because then we get a connection in this that makes us not to do this in a hurry and at a speed that no one is served at.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e709	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e712	I believe that this means a fairly special state practice that the Council of State is now failing to answer one of the most important questions in relation to the reform that the government parties and the Progress Party have actually agreed on, that there will be no answer to important questions in relation to it because the opposition has not asked questions in the Committee on this. It shouldn't be like that. It is precisely a serious estimate that those who support a proposal that is a reasonable groundbreaking proposal – and which is in fact contrary to what the same government has written in the paper that this will have a significant cost side, but that centralisation will also have an impact on the build-up of skills – cannot give us answers. In this way, the representative Thorkildsen has pointed to what is the Achilles heel in this case. Then it's not the opposition's duty to ask questions in the committee it's about, but the duty of the Government and the duty of those who form the majority for the whole, to answer questions about the consequences of this, right before we adopt it here in the Storting. Nor is it as the representative Marthinsen suggests in his posts, that he and the Christian People's Party stick to the Government and do not turn their backs on the Government. I just feel that the Christian People's Party is turning its back on the government's sketch. One ignores what was in the big message from the Government, and leans on centralisation, so that there is a real need to be cautious about such an important reform. The lighting is important. The tingly is not an experiment, but the majority position has become unclear, and it can be an uncertain experiment. As you can understand, it paradoxically opens up enough for more bureaucracy and heavy organization. I am not sure if it meets the needs of the intelligence service for competence. Finally, it creates considerable uncertainty for the jobs — preferably women — in the districts associated with the service. What the majority actually do is to take what is currently a well-functioning and local organisation, with a high level of service and competence, and to decide on the transfer to bodies that have few prerequisites to ensure the same level of legal certainty, quality and speed. This is clearly the case when the majority in one place in the vote proposes to set up a central object intelligence unit, a different location requires that tasks related to object intelligence be assigned to the county card offices, and then finally proposes that tasks, including procedural tasks, be added to the municipalities. Where is the Government's message to the Storting lost in this matter? While other speakers have been most concerned with what previous governments and other parties have said in the past, it has been imperative for the Labour Party to look for the structure that actually best takes care of the acquired competence, both local competence and legal competence, which is closest to the user, and which guarantees a secure service. While skills are being built up, there is a high risk that a number of errors may occur, with serious consequences for individuals and with considerable liability, without cause for the clarification of matters. To the extent that it is right to think of a central directory office with local boundaries in municipalities or district courts, you should ask some questions about this. Any directory office, be it local or central, depends on the proximity of the mortgage book. Thus, it is almost unimaginable that the majority now seems to point to a solution that makes it necessary for two central units, one for the mortgage book, and one for the henfoss. Why couldn't at least this be grouped up in one place? Where has the Government’s demand for effective government become? Where has it become the requirement to have the least bureaucracy possible? And where has it become of the requirement to reduce public expenditure and public employment outside priority areas? This is at least to go in the opposite direction to what the Sem declaration proposes to be committed to. In my opinion, the setting, as it is now, raises more questions than it answers, and it gives a blank authorisation to the Government. This will remove an important design of an important public service from the political decision-making and debate. The employees, the users and we in Stortinget have a right to be informed. Those who want to change are responsible for explaining where to go. The Council of State has an obligation to answer the questions that have now been raised about basic issues relating to this reform. In the view of the Labour Party, the local courts, where there are very hafile case handlers and close cooperation with judges, are today the best solution in terms of ensuring legal certainty for users. The location of the courts is appropriate, since the courts are mainly located in the centre of the region, at a level between the municipality and the county level. The position of the majority may also have a significant impact on the judicial structure. The solution proposed must mean a reduction in the functioning of the courts. A solution that the existing one also contributes to badly needed jobs in the districts, with a high level of service close to the users. Isn't that what we want public jobs to get out of central places and be placed close to the users? While government council Norman is working to get state jobs out to more districts, you're doing the opposite here. So the setting today has become a step in the wrong direction, insofar as we see some direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e733	There were doubts about the economic impact of the model that has now been chosen and on which the setting is based. If you read on page 67 in St.meld. No 13, it is said that if you use fully electronic instruments in the future organisation, it will be a saving of ‘between 30 and 40 million. kronor per cent. years compared to current resource use’.» The proposal that we are dealing with today in the Storting goes even further, so there is no reason to say that there should be less savings than what is stated in the Storing Communication. I want to say that trying to get the debate to focus on what it's not supposed to be about: trying to accuse both government councils, the position and the majority of people not to have an overview of what you're doing, I think you should stay too good at. The new object lighting system is becoming a centralisation. State Council Victor Norman and the Ministry of Administration have published a publication entitled «From Word to Action». This decision is from word to action. Here we get a modern thing management organization, we get the pawnbook for Hardanger, and we get the information for the Maplet on Hennefoss. This will also provide better public service because the municipal service offices will eventually have access to both the mortgage book and the Mapping Register, so that the audience will actually get a better service than they do today. Today there are about 30 courts as the «server» audience. In the future, there will be 435 municipalities that can "serve" the audience. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the Progress Party which supports this proposal, which is a modern, offensive and new proposal. A point was made that it is a threat to the courts to remove the proceedings from the courts, and that it will lead to the annulment of the courts. It's actually the opposite. The Labour Party and SV have always said that the courts have too much to do. This proposal frees resources from the courts, so that the courts can now do what they have to do, namely to judge people. A faster procedure before the courts and a faster procedure is what we all want. This decision is the practical action to achieve this, and it must be positive. Instead, the Labour Party and the SV issue this. I actually want to say that this is good craftsmanship. You do two things at once. Fact-finding is made more effective, while at the same time freeing resources to legal work. What could weaken the courts and give the courts more to do is the new law on legal aid that was passed yesterday, giving free legal aid to anyone who earns less than NOK 230 000 — without self-interest. This could lead to more work being done in the courts. The Labour Party’s proposals therefore go in one direction – to put more work on the courts without giving more money. We release resources, so that there are opportunities to do more of what the courts are going to do. It was called a knife and fork policy – from the Labour Party. The working party is completely free of bribery and without plates in the policy they pursue. We want to keep costs down. We want a decentralised opportunity for the audience to follow up on what's happening at the time of things, but we have a centralised model. In addition, if you are not doing anything now, you need to have quite extensive training in the courts. Computer systems must be trained in the courts, and new computer systems must be introduced in the courts. So you have to do this in addition to the usual work in the courts. Therefore, the time is now absolutely right to move the mortgage book and the billing register out of the courts. This is the right time. The Courts will be well-functioning and the clearing systems will also be well-functioning. This is forward-looking because of technological developments. A new parliamentary expression has been introduced here today. It was said by the SV representative that it was ‘cuckled’ in the late hours of the night. It was not charged by the president, but I would say that it must be self-experienced – a description of how SV's work takes place in the late hours of the night. There has been no bulging from the government parties or from the Progress Party. There have been serious proceedings and serious reviews. This setting, which is now available, was clear from the time of the release, and there have been opportunities to ask questions about it since the release, so the humpage claimed here has not taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e750	The majority of the Committee proposes that St.meld should be put to the vote. No 13 that the settlement function is to be removed from the courts and transferred to a central unit at the head office of the Staten Kartsverk at Hønefoss. In the message, the Cooperative Government states that the mortgage books, with copies of materialised documents, do not need to be co-located with the object lighting function. One alternative is to collect the pawnbooks for the whole country in one place. The government recommends that the archive be localized to Ullensvang herred in Hardanger. This option is not random. Ullensvang has been working for several years with the luminosity reform. The municipality has planned that the modernisation of the public sector will lead to more efficient use of new technologies for tasks currently carried out manually and at high cost. Strong commitment to entering the position to perform the full object highlighting function in Ullensvang shows that municipalities in Hardanger are taking the initiative for new growth and value creation. The portfolio register will provide work for up to 20 people and represents a new type of activity, which can provide jobs over time in related areas of Hardanger. The government was early out with the decision to locate Ullensvang. The Hardanger region is in a situation of gradual decline in the population. This is an effect of one-sided industrial structure and poorly developed national infrastructure. The region has free labour and competence. This means that it is in line with the modernisation policy of the cooperation parties that the pawnbook function is now added to Hardanger. The attitude shows that there is hardly a majority behind this decision. It's not surprising. Resistance is always high when the state modernises its operations. Nevertheless, it is a bit spooky that the Workers' Party, which maintains a very high profile in terms of the situation in Hardanger, also went against this case. The news that the Workers' Party went against the pawnbroker register in Ullensvang was even advertised on the party's Internet pages – as a happy message. This is bad with the great words and promises we have from the Hordaland Workers' Party that the state will create new jobs in Hardanger. It was a great relief when a majority was finally created for the Ullensvang register. It is very positive that the Progress Party joined the proposal of the Government Parties. A part of the target has been reached after long-term efforts. At the same time, it is gratifying that the state is given a modern, uniform, efficient and forward-looking task-sharing function.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e767	I have been sitting and joining in this debate, and as a non-member of the Justice Committee, I must say that I am a little surprised at the Minister's arrogance to the Stortinge, referring only to the fact that the Committee could have asked written questions about this. The debate in Stortinget may require new information and questions, perhaps especially from representatives who are not members of a trade committee. Therefore, the Council of State should reply to the Storting or admit that he cannot respond to this. So to the matter: The issue of the organisation of property management is important and is happening today in a way that has great confidence – and the employees have great professional competence and effective procedures. In addition, when object lighting includes large values, it is difficult to understand the need for change. The hearing of the courts has provided security of quality and independence. The issue is also a major issue of centralisation, leading to the removal of proximity and job losses in many smaller places. The fact that there is a technological development and that many of the data can be stored electronically is a fact, but I find it unfortunate to reorganize now, before a new directory clearing system is in place in 2004. In this way, one will be able to assess experience and look at the gain, for example: you will be able to look at experiences from the Swedish model. In East Agder it is the sorenic offices in Sand, Niederes and Holt that have close cooperation with the law and the courts. This means that a copy of the replacement certificate could have been obtained very quickly by way of object lighting. If the Cartwork of the individual counties is to be responsible for the clearing of matters, this should be placed under this unit in all municipalities. In East-Agder, the lysing is located in several municipalities under the City Court in Kristiansand, i.e. in West-Agder. As I said, this matter is for me about the credibility of the base book, and the peculiarity of this base book. The fact that the State has a liability for errors should also be given weight. The audience is pleased. It is close – it is important – and the courts have important competences, etc. In these football seasons I will quote a well-known coach: «Never change a win team.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e780	I find it relatively alarming that the Council of State is so unwilling to answer our questions about what this is actually going to cost. This also applies to the question that I believe is most relevant, namely whether one has thought of the situation that if the quality of the case is impaired in terms of case clearance, this could lead to more claims against the State. Are you going to spend money on this? It may seem that the Council of State is not really very satisfied with the results, and therefore does not want to answer our question. In addition, you owe it to the opposition and refer to all the over-measures of the free legal aid case, which has nothing to do with the object lighting of real estate. We have, as the representative Anne Helen Rui said before, actually checked – as the responsible parties we are – how much this is going to cost. I believe that it must then be such that we can get an answer to the question: what is possibly more than ‘significant financial resources’, that is, the resources that are needed to ensure that the quality does not deteriorate? So you're going to have to figure this out? Or did the result – that is, a centralization that no one wanted in the first place – arise from this government that it did not actually count on these costs, because it did not expect this to be the end result? Should the Advance Party be able to sit and almost dictate what the Government is going to think about the land exploration?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e788	It is said that attack is the best defense, and it is clear that now both the Workers' Party and SV have chosen that tactics. It's about doing to get the attention turned away from what's really the matter, and then do something else essentially in today's debate. The Labour Party turns its attention away from the unpleasant fact that a year ago they did not give their support to the Christian People's Party in its comments, described by the Labour Party representative Olsen as «very good». And then the representative Storberget says that the Christian People's Party is actually "turning its back to the Government". It depends on the eyes that see, and it also, not least in this context, depends on the ears that hear. The scripture, in which I am relatively well known, says that one speaks for deaf ears. I'm making a new attempt, hopefully to please someone and to inform others. The Council of State has thus clearly described the Workers' Party's and the SV's proposals as not being forward-looking, and that the majority's position is closest to the Government's proposals. I expect the representative of Storberget, like other representatives from the Labour Party, to know that if you do not initially have a majority behind you – because it should have been a majority, with the contribution of the Labour Party to the proposal presented by the Government – you must seek a majority elsewhere if the intention of what you are presenting is that it is important and desirable to have it implemented. That's what the Christian People's Party has been in it. We have been involved in seeking a majority for a solution that is best, when the Workers' Party would not be involved in the solution that, in our opinion, over a year ago, it was the very best. It is sad that one year later the Workers' Party has found out that the Christian People's Party wrote in its comments, was'very good'. It takes time, but it may give hope that in the future you will read the comments of the Christian People's Party with a slightly greater feeling and understanding, so that the train doesn't go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e799	The representative Marthinsen says that attack is the best form of defense, and it looks obvious to the Council of State at least. It is no wonder that the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen is responding to the attacks of the Council of State now targeting the opposition in Stortinget. In fact, the Storting has a right and an obligation to get an answer to the questions that they ask, regardless of whether they are asked as written questions, whether they are taken in a spontaneous Question Time or whether they are taken along the way in a debate. The point is, of course, the Council of State can say that he cannot answer. But accusing us of being immoderate because we have not sent it as a written question, but chooses to take it in the debate, is a very strange practice, which the Council of State is now about to introduce. I have to say that I feel that I am reasonably arrogant, and I find it strange that the Council of State is now choosing a confrontation with the Storting rather than a dialogue. I think that the Storting, but perhaps most of all the Government, is served by the fact that we are still being distributed keeping the good tone and the good dialogue we've had up to now. Then I have to pay another visit to Marthinsen's representative. I am a little surprised by the post he keeps. He argues both for and against the proposal that the Government has now presented. He defends it with beaks and claws, and also says that the very best suggestion was the Christian People's Party proposed last year. Then I have to ask the question back: what is the real representative of Marthinsen saying? It is true that the Workers' Party may have changed some direction in this matter in relation to what we were doing last year, but it is wrong as the representative Marthinsen claims, that last year we should have written in detail what this arrangement should be like. What we asked the government to do then was to come back with an evaluation and a review of what was the best solution for things. The government has done that. We conclude that there is no evidence that there is an economic benefit to it, nor that there is any improvement in the provision of services to the public by centralising information on things to the Cartel. On the contrary, we are afraid that the opposite will happen, that we will actually get a worse offer. Then we think it's our right and duty to tell them about this. I also expected that the representative Marthinsen, when he had the opportunity to have a majority for what is originally the Christian People's Party's proposal, would also have supported the conclusion of the Workers' Party to the seventh and last.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e806	I have reason to believe that the information contained in the Storing Communication on the different options is known in the Committee. I have taken this into account when I have made my comments. It says two things. One is the ratio of a change from today's situation to different models, which concludes that there is a saving in it. Then it is also described in the Storing Communication that conversion costs will be incurred. When I have not gone into detail on defining the conversion costs here, I thought I had expressed it in my answer, but I would like to repeat it: it is because then you are responsible for ensuring that what the Storting decides is carried out well organisationally in relation to the users, and in a responsible way in relation to the employees. So here and now you can't say what this is going to be like. There are two sizes of costs: it is the long-term gain by making a change, for which the majority also agrees, and that is the conversion costs. The details of the conversion costs I am obliged to come back to in the context of the budget, and they are the result of two issues that in fact everyone here has the stress: firstly, to get an organisational change that keeps goals, technical, in relation to users, and secondly, to act in a proper and proper way in relation to employees, and to ensure that the reform is linked to reforms that have been adopted at first instance. I didn't mean to express anything other than that. So I took the word to clarify it. It goes without saying that these conversion costs cannot I draw up here today in advance, and that is simply a consequence of going into serious processes. Some of the processes are about the relationship with the Storting, and that is the debate today. It has got quite strong over- and under-tones – you only have to take that with you when you have the tensions you have in the matter. But as the Council of State, I have to deal with a conclusion, which in fact leads to me going into some processes that cannot begin until the Stortinget has finished dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e813	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3061]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e828	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e835	This should not be a long post, because we are going to deal with a matter afterwards, at Odelstinget – Innst. O. No 62 for 2001-2002 on the law on changes in criminal and police laws, measures against the illegal use of knives and firearms. The proposals that Jan Simonsen makes to limit the use of knives to harm other people relate to both search and visitation. They concern changes to the provisions of the criminal law, and they also concern changes in legislation to penalise knife use more severely. The Committee has found it natural to deal with this matter together with the examination of Ot.prp. No 58 for 2001-2002. I refer you to the comments on the proposals made by Mrs Innst. O. No 62, as I mentioned. The Committee suggests that this document no. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. Finally, I would like to say that the proposals which Simonsen makes in this document No. The 8 proposal will be duly addressed in the context of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e848	I have recorded that the committee has chosen to take up the debate on my proposals during the examination of the Ministry's legislative proposals on measures against the illegal use of knives and firearms. Of course, that is okay, but I have nevertheless chosen to promote two of my suggestions in relation to each case, so that I get double speaking time. I suggest increasing the minimum penalty for serious bodily injury from two years in prison to six years in prison. The majority of the Committee will come back to this and other proposals in the context of the follow-up to the investigation by the Penal Peace Commission. This is not the first time a large number of people use this public investigation as an excuse for a criminal police act. Meanwhile, young people keep stabbing each other with a knife. There is no prevention of de minimis criminal responses. On the contrary, they are at a level that only makes it tougher for repeaters to show their power and thus gain increased status in the crowd. Of course, when the bulk of the population then totally lacked the will to act, the same majority of people also have to take on the responsibility for the continuation of the wave of violence. It should feel like a heavy responsibility. The proposal that any knife use that is not self-defense and that leads to the death of the victim should be punished by the same minimum and maximum penalties as intentional killing is a dramatic proposal that I expect will make the hairs stand up with professional lawyers and defense lawyers, but it is equally necessary. Young people walking with knives must understand that any use of knife against other people can cause the victim to die. Before you learn these people to understand the consequences of their actions, it will never end knife use. I'm sorry for the apology that goes on that well, I stabbed him right with a knife, but it was just to hurt, and I couldn't believe he'd die of it. It's an unacceptable excuse. If a person dies of stabbing, the killer should be judged as a killer – therefore this proposal. I bring up the proposals that have been distributed at the representatives' tables. Unfortunately, I have registered that the Progress Party will also vote against these, and I can only regret that the Progress Party is now conducting a more relaxed criminal policy than when I was the party's judicial spokesman myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e861	The representative Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3061]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e876	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e883	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 2, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government is asking the Government to amend the Act on Petroleum Activities § 3 in such a way that plans for technological research or development are particularly relevant to Norwegian conditions to cater for companies applying for concession on Norwegian base.2. The Government is asking the Government to amend the Act on the Law of Petroleum Activities § 3 in such a way that plans for petroleum-related competence building for persons residing in Norway and relevant for Norwegian Sockets shall be granted to companies applying for a concession on Norwegian Socket.3. The Storting asks the Government to amend the Act on the Law of Petroleum Activities § 3 in such a way that plans for technological cooperation between developers, companies and research communities with specific knowledge of Norwegian conditions shall be granted to companies applying for a concession on Norwegian base.4. The Storting asks the Government to amend the Act on Petroleum Activities § 3 in such a way that planned socio-scientific research or development is particularly relevant for Norwegian conditions to cater to companies applying for concession on Norwegian base.5. The Government is asking the Government to amend the Act on Petroleum Activities § 3 in such a way that plans for investments in health, environment and safety and improved use of resources, particularly relevant to Norwegian conditions, shall be granted to companies applying for a concession on Norwegian base.6. The Government is asking the Government to use the Norwegian Research Council to find appropriate ways to control the level and content of petroleum-related research and the build-up of competences carried out in Norway and to find an appropriate form of reporting to the Minister of Oil and Energy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e923	The proposal by the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen is being put to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case on matters related to national research strategy; the use of fiscal measures to motivate business to invest in R & D; and the use of the return on oil wealth for the purchase of goods and services from abroad to Norwegian research and teaching institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e973	The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e992	President! I ask for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e999	It's okay. Otherwise it's pretty well put up here, but it's good to be on the safe side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e1002	I want to say on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that we are going to vote for III, as the prerequisites for why we were initially opposed, at least by the Socialist Left Party, are no longer present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e1007	Then the Socialist Left Party has been notified. The President expects the Labour Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e1022	During the debate, the representative Jan Simonsen put forward two proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to amend the penal code paragraph 231 to increase the minimum sentence from 2 years in prison to 6 years in prison, as well as proposals for minimum and increased maximum penalties for minor bodily injury.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the legislation so that any non-self-defense knife use resulting in the death of the victim is penalised in accordance with the same rules and with the same consequences for the criminal investigation that is currently in force for deliberate killing, and no longer in accordance with a law on bodily injury resulting in death.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12.ana.ud448e1060	There is no record.
