ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e59	They called for alternates, for Troms County Leif Christian Johansen and for South Trondelag County Karin Galaaen, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e70	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e75	I'd like to suggest Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e80	Anne Berit Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e85	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I promote proposals for action against the use of threats, violence and sexual harassment in vulnerable family environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e90	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e105	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e116	Modernisation has been a key word in the political debate in recent years. The Stoltenberg government created significant expectations about the modernisation and conversion of the public sector. They shall be commended for having carried out the Right Hospital Reform. But it was only a ‘Skrit on the road’, as the Stoltenberg Government’s programme for the modernisation of the public sector was so descriptively called. But one step on the way is not enough. Unfortunately, the comments in the press following Norman's statement suggest that the museum administrators have taken over in the Workers' Party. They have left the modernisation line and are committed to defending it. They have also seen internal disagreement and are in practice paralysed. The cooperative government has ambitions on behalf of the public sector. From word to action is a far more offensive grip than a step on the way. A historic modernisation has now been launched to put the user first and to provide each of the equivalent services of good quality. This applies to all welfare services for which public responsibility lies. It is the individual's need to be at the centre, not the system. Modernisation reform is about the delegation and decentralisation of responsibility and authority, about economic incentives and quality control, about local freedom and local responsibility. The districts shall be revitalised and new opportunities for District Norway may be created. The municipalities will have great freedom and will decide more. Users will have more influence over the provision of care, care and health services. Each school will have more power and responsibility, and parents will have more influence over school priorities. Social protection offices, social work offices and Aetats shall be merged to provide the unemployed, those who have fallen outside, and those who need help, with a better offer. They shall meet one door and one barrier and shall not have to go canoeing between countless offices and case handlers. Users must feel secure that they get the help they need when they need it. This is about respect and dignity for the individual. Reducing barriers between the public and private sectors and creating a common labour market will make it easier for workers to go from public to private or vice versa without losing weight to it. Employees will have greater opportunities for professional development, more flexible working arrangements and a more exciting working day. At the same time, they must feel secure and involved in their own work situation. Cleaning and simplification of legislation is important in order to contribute to business efficiency and productivity. It is therefore necessary to soften the provisions relating to opening time, working time and the working environment. And it is very uplifting that the new director of the Central Association of Municipalities, former rapporteur and secretary of state of the Central Party, is very much in favour of the Government's approach to modernising the public sector. He spoke warmly about competition for municipal services in an interview in the United Nations on 24 January, and demanded that the municipalities have the government's trust. And they'll get it. The competence to improve school and welfare services lies in municipalities and in local businesses. Therefore, it is both right and important to give more responsibility and freedom and to delegate more authority to municipalities. Cooperation between the public and private sector is only one instrument in providing better and more user-friendly services to the population. Another instrument may be freedom of choice for users across local borders. If we are to get better services for users without jeopardising access to labour and skills in private business, we need to get more out of the money spent in the public sector. It's a challenge and a very demanding task, but it's absolutely necessary. Society needs all free hands. The labour reserve of older workers, disabled persons and disabled persons must be mobilised. Not least, we must prevent people from being pushed out of the labour market. An inclusive working life and modernisation of the public sector are two sides of the same coin. In summary, the co-operation regime for the modernisation and conversion of the public sector is a security reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e147	A week ago, just before the presentation, we could hear State Council Norman on Dagsrevyen say that he not only accepted increased differences in service provision between individuals and groups and geographical areas, it was a desirable development. Greater differences between the provision of services in different municipalities would lead to people voting with their feet and moving your service offer being the best. Is it really right what they're saying? Do you think that people who have a job somewhere, maybe have a spouse who has a job in the same place, have kids who go to school, have built a house, maybe have family, networks around them, have to move because the nursery is better somewhere else? For the Workers' Party, the opposite is the opposite. We are politicians who are responsible for ensuring that everyone across the country receives an equivalent service offer. It's the public services that are going to come to people, people aren't going to have to move after the public services. So my question to the committee leader is: does she agree with the government council Norman that there should be greater differences between the offer in different municipalities and let people vote with their feet, or does she agree with the Workers' Party that we, as politicians, must ensure that the service provision is equivalent across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e154	The right and government are committed to giving trust to the municipalities. The government's reform will provide services that are more tailored to individual needs. It's not class distinction. It's putting the user in the center and tailoring a service that suits the individual. The need for public services varies from person to person. This way, there'll be differences, because none of us are equal. Everyone is different and needs different. That is why we want to facilitate tailoring an offer to the individual user, of course within reasonable limits. This could be done, for example, by: be to organise a childcare facility adapted to parents who work shifts in industry or in hospitals. Young people may want to go to a particular school because, for example: has a music bar. It may also be aimed at facilitating education and work for disabled persons and highly disadvantaged persons. Some people want to be treated in a particular hospital or need care and care. Users will not receive a similar offer, but they will receive an equivalent offer, and that is what is most important. That is why we want to increase the individual's freedom of choice in relation to public services, and let the money follow the user more closely. And we want to introduce user evaluation. People want quality and freedom of choice. They'll get it. They no longer understand political detail management and a public sector characterised by A-4 solutions and cows and chaos. That's what the Co-operation Administration has taken hold of and will do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e161	Heads and hands are the main challenge for public service provision, says the Council of State in its presentation. Competitive outsourcing and sub-privatisation have been tried out in several municipalities in Norway and also in many other countries. Moss municipality, from which I come, has carried out exactly this kind of conversion that the Council of State puts forward. We've had such a transformation and modernisation in the last six years. What we have achieved is top-heavy, double administrations in order to respect the principle of competition, because this principle must be respected, asserted, with the principle of order and execution. Why are you adding up to top-heavy administrations now? What is lacking to provide the quality you want to provide is more staffing – heads and hands – and then you add to top-heavy administrations that don't care for users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e166	It's obvious that someone here in the hall almost gets staggered when they hear the word "competition." But outsourcing, what does that mean? Well, that simply means cooperation between public and private actors. It's not privatisation. Privatisation means public disclaimer of responsibility and payment for basic welfare services. Competition exposure and private actors are an instrument and a supplement, not an objective in itself. The goal is better and cheaper services. Resources that can be used for even more and better services can be released to users. I think there are a few small-child parents who are concerned about whether the children in the nursery are taken care of by private employees, or older nurses who are concerned about whether there is a nurse who is employed in a private hospital, who provides care and care. What they're concerned about is that they get good care. For the Government, it is important to strengthen the influence of users and to facilitate a better, more varied and diverse offer by releasing private and voluntary forces into competition with the public. Those who criticise competition as an instrument depend on the system. I am concerned about how to get better services for the individual user.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e173	The President has some doubts as to whether assuming that co-representatives are equipped with fur falls entirely within the Parliamentary competence, but will dubiously allow it to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e176	It is good that the searchlight is looked at how the individual can be met with greater respect and understanding and be followed up in a better way than today, and how public services can be performed more efficiently and at the best for others, because there is no doubt that there is a good potential. However, there is no doubt that very good work is being done in the country, municipality and county to provide the individual with the assistance and guidance needed when needed. The Council of State itself says in its statement that we have good intentions in Norway to succeed. He pointed out ‘professional and sober management tradition’, ‘short-way from citizens to policy makers’, ‘qualified and well-qualified national and municipal staff’ and ‘not least a financial freedom to act that gives us time and opportunities to create a better public sector and a better service provision for individuals’. My question then turns to the Right: When the solutions so strongly point to competition and privatisation, and we know that much of the reason for today's situation is that there are no means in the public sector in relation to the tasks, is Sonja Irene Sjøli signaling today in accordance with what the Council of State provides as a prescription – away from equivalent living conditions and what has been common goals so far, equivalent offers in the whole country, and more in the direction of greater differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e185	I agree with the representative that a lot of good work is being done in the public sector, both in the municipalities and at state units. It's not that we're going to spend less resources than what we're using today, but we need to get more of the resources that we're actually using. There is a need for all the resources that are available, but there is also a need for more. We know that the number of older people will increase, and that there will be a great need for more services both in terms of care and care, and in terms of treatment. As I said at the outset, I am pleased that the new KS-director has accepted as well the arrangements put forward by the Government. It's clear that there's a big gap between what the Central Party's representatives think in position, when they get into politics, and what they mean when they get into real life. Because he is talking very much about the competitive outsourcing of municipal services, but also about the need for municipalities to have more trust. It is important to strengthen municipal units and businesses, such as health, the elderly and schools — at all — the welfare services of local businesses. It is both right and important to be able to give more responsibilities and delegate powers to municipalities. I understand that the representative from the Central Party is very concerned about this with the competition as well. It's like a fior. But cooperation between the public and private sector is only an instrument to provide the public with better and more user-friendly services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e193	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e196	The first must be clear in the work on the renewal of the public sector is what the objective is. The shift work undertaken by the Labour Party Government had an overall objective, that the individual in Norway should receive the public services they need, that the services should be of high quality, and that we should provide a fair and equivalent offer to each individual, irrespective of the economy, background or place of residence. One way to achieve this goal is to make the best use of public resources. But the goal of the Workers' Party is not to save as much money as possible, on the contrary, we want to use the released money to create an even better offer for the population. Renewal at school should provide better education for students and better follow-up for the individual. Renewal in the police is intended to provide more clear-cut offences and greater security for the population. Renewal in the health sector is to provide treatment for more. And renewal in the care of the elderly is to provide caregivers with better help, giving older people a safe old age. That's the goal: an expanded offer, better quality, better everyday life for most people. Unfortunately, this is not what is at the heart of the Council's presentation. On the contrary, there is the possibility of saving public finances and reducing the number of employees in public services such as health and school reviews. It seems that it's more important that it gets cheaper for the state than it gets better for the users. In this way, the Council of State follows up what the Right said before the elections. When the right in the election campaign had to respond to where they were going to take the money to tax relief, they referred to a report from State Consultant that showed that the public could save 30 billion kroner through various efficiency measures. Billions of money could be cut in schools, health and higher education. The working party has a different starting point. We are for all good measures that could lead to better spending of money in the public sector. But every penny we save, we're going to use to create even better services, not to cover cuts and tax havens. There must be the users of services and the needs of users for good services at the centre. Much can be done by the way in which the public sector operates. At the same time, we should have a realistic picture of the potential for productivity growth in public services. When Hydro Aluminium on Sunndalsøra invests in new melting furnaces, it can double production while the number of employees drops dramatically. This is not the case in the public service. In this respect, the requirement for productivity growth may mean that home help needs to visit even more older people in one day, that the health home must have even fewer guards in the evening, that the tip of child protection must be treated even more quickly and more superficially. We therefore need to be aware that efficiency can be improved at the expense of quality. We must ensure that innovation goes hand in hand with quality and legal certainty. The Labour Party launched a series of major reforms for the renewal of the public sector. No government has, in such a short time, promoted as many major reforms as the government of Stoltenberg. This is also why, where the State Council of Norman is most concrete in its presentation, he is following up what we have already started – hospital reform, quality reform in higher education, defence reform, reform in the justice sector, greater freedom and responsibility locally, public service offices, electronic administration, simpler regulation, user studies and the establishment of state jobs in the districts. All these are measures that were in progress when Norman took over, and we are pleased that he is continuing. We're not as satisfied with that statement. Much of the statement bears the hallmark of being an ideological manifesto of a right triangle of politics more than a concrete public sector action plan. Privatisation and outsourcing are the way Norman ran out. And in order not to leave any doubt, Norman says that the urgent need to privatize is that the Workers' Party believes is the most important thing to keep on the hands of the community, namely school and health. The public offer has to be reduced, more has to be left to private hands. The result will be — it is also said by the Council itself — greater differences in the provision of services between individuals, between groups and between geographical areas. Norman provides a rather thin documentation of the savings of privatisation. He himself admits that privatisation and outsourcing will mean an increased need for control and supervision, at the same time it will require complex contracts with control and follow-up of the contractual conditions. The final sum is hardly going to be much lower. Of course, there is money to save if you can replace 55-year-olds with 30-year-olds, if you can use people with poorer pension conditions, or if you can cancel people more easily. The working party cannot be involved. On the contrary, we see that important public services are struggling with the recruitment of important labour. Then the answer is not to make the working conditions worse. We need to get public sector innovation in cooperation with employees and make sure that the important jobs that the public sector carries out will be attractive to the future workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e218	Trond Gisk deserves praise for clarifying the political lines. He's talking like a good old Ap-man. Gisk emphasizes that people should get services people need. According to Giske, it is then the Workers' Party that is to determine what kind of services this is, and who is to produce the services. Otherwise, the former Minister of Education may not be able to read. He obviously hasn't read the report that Victor D. Norman has presented, or maybe it's that school is as bad as some people have claimed, and so you read it wrong. What is at the heart of the Co-operation Administration is to create better services for users. This is not to be done by centralizing, as the Labour Party medicine is all too often, but by decentralizing, by shifting power and responsibility from the departmental offices to where the services are produced. The government of Stoltenberg got a lot of deserved praise when it joined, also from the Right Leader Jan Petersen, for initiatives taken to renew the public sector. But it was not long before the left side of the Workers' Party took hold and stopped the processes that had been started. Yes, it actually went so far that the former Minister of Administration, Jørgen Kosmo, gave the various professional organizations the right to veto the modernisation process. I agree with Trond Giske when he says that the conversion will take place in cooperation with the employees. My question is whether Giske now believes that it should be done in cooperation with the employees, or whether he is on the old line of Jørgen Kosmo, which meant that all professional organisations in the public sector should be granted the right to veto.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e231	The President assumes that ‘Ap-manner’ is an abbreviation rather than a species designation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e234	If that's the evaluation of my reading skills, Jan Tore Sanner has, I understand that the Right will find that one in five goes out of Norwegian school without being able to read. There is no evidence of that. Then we found out. Of course, no one should have a veto right to the public sector conversions. But if you're going to convert a business, you're the ones who do the job, maybe the most important partners you have. This is well-known from private business. Any manager who is going to relocate his or her business will go to his or her employees and cooperate with them, develop skills and find ways to do the job that works both for the employees and for the company as a whole. Of course, the public must do the same. But the attitude of the Council of State's statement is that the problem in the public sector is that people have a lifetime perspective on their employment, and that they are working against and sabotaging change. It's not like that. In the central administration, as Victor D. Norman ought to know pretty well, there's a 15 pst turnover. In the Ministry of Justice, it was a year of 27 p.m. by the staff members who have ceased to work. The police room in Oslo has 40 p.m. by the police lawyers ended in two years. The problem is not that people are sitting on a lifetime. The problem is that many key public areas lack skilled labour. And if the aim is then to reduce working conditions, reduce pension conditions and make the labour pressure harder, is it the way to compete for the labour force, and is it the way to create change? Conversion is created in a situation where workers feel safe, where they have a common vision, and where they work together on the goal. Then maybe the threat of privatisation and outsourcing is not what you should start with. In right-hand Trondheim one went so far as to offer a private hospital instead of the public, they had the same price, but the reason was that the private had better management philosophy. But then it's not the employees you're going to replace, it's the management, the right-wing board in Tronheim, you should replace.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e243	It is no secret that the Progress Party is very pleased with the statement we have received from the Council of State, and that we think it is necessary action that needs to be taken. 30 years ago, it was 30 pst. fewer employees in central government than we now have. It's blown up over time. Corresponding figures can be found in Kommune-Norway – perhaps even more marked there. A report by State Consultant on the public sector presented last year pointed out that on average it is 20 pst. the potential for savings in the state agencies and the savings to be made in relation to the year's budget. $45 billion. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 2 for 2001-2002 it can be seen that the Workers' Party also supported the modernisation of central government and called for concrete measures. The budgetary position on page 19 states that a majority, consisting of all parties other than the SV and the Centre Party, ‘will launch concrete projects on efficiency/competition deployment in the first half of 2002’. Today, however, we hear that the representative Giske is strongly critical of what has come from the Council of State. My question is: when, in December, they actually asked for these concrete measures that have now been taken, how are we going to interpret the criticism? As I understand it, the marshall which the Workers' Party gave, together with the majority of the committee, is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e254	In my view, the approach to public sector renewal is best served by avoiding dogmatic attitudes. Of course, we should avoid the dogmatic attitude that everything should be produced by the public, that there should be public servants to do all the work. However, it is equally dogmatic to take the approach of the Progress Party, that it is always best for private services to be produced. Both of these things are going to be the same thing. There are cases where private individuals can provide services to the municipality. It has been done by private individuals at all times, and they will certainly continue to do so – in worker party-driven municipalities as in the successful progressive party-driven municipalities we have in Norway. Basic public welfare services, such as schools and important health services, believe that the Workers' Party should have been produced by the public for several reasons, including: to create an equivalent offer across the country. The progress point has a completely different model. They say that the public should give a sum of money that each person can take with him, and then you can buy the services you want. And anyone can also add out of their own wallet to buy even a little bit better services. This will lead to dramatic differences in school provision, health provision and care provision. That is what we believe to create a poorer society. If it is the money book of your parents to decide, for example. Which school you're going to attend, we're going to have dramatically increased class divisions in Norway. But not only that: if we were to follow the recipe of the Progress Party and get different schools, not only from the money book, but also from religion and ethnicity, we would get a society that was much less integrated, which was much worse intertwined, we would get bigger conflicts and larger dividing lines, which the Progress Party is otherwise so concerned with equalizing. Again, reference is made to this Statskonsult report – you could save NOK 30 billion. I've studied it as a Minister of Education. If we were to do it in the school sector, all the schools in Norway had to fill up all the classes to the edge, we had to fill up the schools to the edge, we had to lay down dramatic numbers of branch schools, and we had to move most of the population to the big cities. I don't think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e263	The representative Geske has experience in government, and he is now expressing quite a dissatisfaction with the quality of parts of the public sector. SV shares that criticism. In schools and health in particular, tasks need to be improved. Then I think it's time to ask a representative who's also been the school council, why he thinks it's been like this. Why has it become that some parents are actually now asking for private school solutions? I think it's because the quality is too bad, not because the parents are particularly strange or have great desire to choose. Then the challenge for the Workers' Party from SV: How are we going to address this? How are we going to get the correct calculations that show how much it costs to run a high-quality school? I believe that there is reason to draw on the experience of one who has been the Council of State in such a department. Why is there so much gap between the department and any government believes quality costs, and what municipalities see themselves able to run high-quality schools? Why is it not possible for a party that believes that we need to have a better quality, to produce quality reforms, for example. in investments, in such a way that we know that we do, before the parents have been so dissatisfied that they have asked for many private solutions? Similarly, we can go through areas by area. I have this question for the Workers' Party: Is it so that they see in the opposition that they have helped to contribute to the under-financing of the public sector, which has led to the quality being so poor, and that they have contributed to the pressure on private solutions that we now see, and on which this government lives high?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e270	There is no doubt that there is a good deal of public services that in the years to come will certainly need increased resources to improve. But it's not right, as Andersen's representative suggested, that the previous government didn't do anything about it – on the contrary, we did a great deal of work, among other things. in the sector in which she is now most concerned, namely school. The teachers received e.g.: $50,000 more in salary in a year and a half, we started a $15 billion package to clean up school buildings, we increased investment in ICT by 100 million. kr to the high-record level. In a number of areas, a lot was done. In addition, the municipal sector received the largest income growth in both 2000 and 2001. Of course, there are many other tasks that require more money, but that is not the only solution. In addition to having more money for public services in the years ahead, we also need to make sure that we spend the money in the best possible way. That's why our work went on, for example. by increasing teachers' salaries by working in new ways and using the workforce better, working together in teachers' teams, dividing classes differently, looking at working time regulations in cooperation with teachers and finding good solutions. But I think the representative Andersen has an important point, and that is that if the imbalance between the private wealth we have and the public services we offer becomes too large, it will be the main engine of privatisation. Of course, if a person has a hip injury and has to go for a year and wait for surgery, but can choose a private solution and pay for himself, then no one can demand that one be so ideological to the community that one goes and waits. Of course, the quality of public services must be present if we really believe that it is important to maintain Community solutions. The same applies to the quality of school. A good school, good school building, good teachers, good education, good user involvement, etc. is the most important to ensure that we can maintain school, health and care as important Community goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e280	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e284	With regard to my exchange of lines with the representative Giske, I believe that Giske should perhaps leave it to the Progress Party to explain what the Progress Party's public sector models are. I registered that the representative, Gisk, was concerned that the wallet should control which school places and which health places you should be able to buy with the policy of the Progress Party. It's actually wrong. That's actually how it is per. today. If I have enough money, I can buy a place in private high school down the street here for my son or daughter, or I can buy a place on Volvat if someone in the family gets sick. If I don't have the money, I can't. So it's after the x number of years of labor party rule that you have it this way. I also registered that I did not get an answer to my question, why the representative Giske was angry now. After all, he had received exactly what he asked for, namely efficiency improvement and competitive outsourcing measures. I guess someone must have told him that's not what he should have asked for, and who these people are, you can wonder in. Enough about that. The Norman Government's presentation of government's plans in the public sector was a good support for the Progress Party's policies for many years. The Progress Party has waged a long struggle for modernisation and simplification of the public sector. The Council of State statement promises well for the future. We have recorded signals on user focus in service production, administrative cleanup, increased freedom of choice, better tendering conditions, increased use of private services in public services, performance-based funding schemes, liberalisation of working time, employment conditions, etc., and we have seen that the tool will be reviewed in business and district policy. The fact that the Council of State has so much emphasised the situation of employees in this transition, improves, I think, the possibilities of success in the work to be done now. But a little cautionary indexation finger: one must not follow the former state councils, level and slavely, the demands of the employees' organisations. For we have seen that employees' organisations tend to be negative in terms of conversion and very conservative in terms of efficiency. We have great expectations for the work of the Council of State, and we will follow the work very closely. The central thing is now to transform the words we find in the account into action. We now expect a veritable flow of propositions and legislative changes and other changes that need to come to us here in the Storting beyond spring, and of course beyond the fall, in order to follow up the policy that the account outlines. In this area, we feel that the Council of State has not yet been very precise, and we are calling for the concreteisation of the time horizon. We know that as dramatic changes as they are currently sketched will take time, but how long? When do we get the concrete details of the measures contained in this statement? I will go into a small, concrete field mentioned in the presentation, where I will give special commendation to the Council of State for his opposition: this with the life-time perspective of the public sector. For a long time, many state and local authorities have felt that they have almost been working in a sheltered enterprise. The difference between the public and the private – there are good people in both types of businesses; I have worked in both types of businesses – is that those who are not so good seem to be able to be there life out there without consequences, with exactly the same pay as the good ones. That someone is now addressing this, I think it is admirable and affordable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e301	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e304	The government has announced a new policy in the matter that we are now debating. There will be greater differences in society, and more private services will be provided in health care and in our school. Those who have plenty of money become winners in such a policy. Increased competition between municipalities leads to a weakening of the districts. More centralisation may be achieved. The Labour Party will have a well-being offer that is equally good for everyone, regardless of what they think, and independently of every country they live in. The main task must be to make the offer to people in our country even better than what we have now. It's an important transition task, which requires challenging solutions. The party of progress is pleased to call itself defenders of the interests of those who have the most poor advice in our society. Then is my question to the representative Knudsen: How can the Progress Party turn itself into spokespersons for those who have the most poor advice, while at the same time being the foremost defenders of a policy that in practice will lead to greater differences in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e313	If the representative had taken the trouble to listen to the first part of my post, he would have heard that I was in on this very topic. It is precisely within health and school, for example, which are important areas of society, and where the Workers' Party has ruled, that we have huge differences. The funding arrangements of the Progress Party for these areas will be similar. You'll get the same amount of money whether you want to go to a private hospital or to a public hospital, you'll be able to get the same amount of money from the state fund whether you choose a private school or a public school. We want to help this not lead to increased differences, but to more equality no matter what offer you choose – either privately or publicly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e322	I noticed with great joy that the Progress Party shows such support and enthusiasm in relation to what we have been presented in terms of the modernisation of the public sector. I also noticed that the importance of bringing the employees with me in the process we are going to be involved in was stressed. But then I must admit that the concern gripped me a little bit. For then, the Progress Party says that in addition to the spring, a'veritable flow' of concrete proposals is expected to be launched. This fits well into the picture in relation to what the leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, has expressed on several occasions in the daily press and in radio and TV, namely that one expects a greater concreteisation, and that one expects a number of proposals in a very short time. And that's where I think we're at a dilemma. My question is that. Does the Progress Party see the need for us to put this process on track and that it will necessarily have to take some time? Not that we're going to let it slip out indefinitely, but some time we have to take to get the big, heavy shot with 700,000 employees on a good track. And the chemistry that we have to have to do to get this done, it probably takes a little bit more time to build up than a month or two in the spring. Is the Advance Party willing to join in, and willing to give it time? Will the Progress Party follow it up in its work in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e334	As I said in my article, of course, we understand that some of these measures, which involve such major upheavals, will take some time. But some of them we should start to see the contours of clear and clear before the summer holiday and also beyond the harvest. We expect the things that can be done quickly and easily, not to be red taped and investigated unnecessarily, but to get started. I also have to bring in the budget-inner. S. No 2 for 2001-2002, where a majority of the Committee, which also includes the Right, ‘bes the Government to launch concrete projects on efficiency/competition deployment in the first half of 2002’. Very well known is the first half of 2002 in the first six months of 2002. After all, I must assume that the majority of the committee, with this comment, believes that concrete proposals must be made in the first six months of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e341	I agree with the Progress Party that they have had a very good impact on progress party policy without being in government. I usually congratulate the Progress Party in Moss on that every year, and I do it now as well. I want to challenge the Progress Party that we lack key personnel in many different sectors of the public sector. The representative Knudsen warns against levelling off for organisations and employees, who strongly oppose efficiency and conversion measures. Does the Progress Party believe that there have been no major changes in the public sector in which employees have largely participated? And what steps will the Progress Party take to recruit personnel to all the challenges ahead of us – with the ageing wave, the expansion of kindergartens, increased drug use and all the problems we are now looking at on the child and youth sides?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e348	It is quite obvious that we have a recruitment problem in some parts of the public sector. I think it can be a lot to pick up by getting people from paper producing areas across to the practical, service producing areas. For us in the Progress Party, it is not important whether it is a private company that operates with care or with the help of drug users, or whether it is a public enterprise that does. But I think that's something we can do in the public sector as well. First of all, we can strengthen the opportunities for education in these directions – to train more doctors, to train more nurses, to train more teachers. But we also have to do something about the public as a job. For example, we have to. have a more flexible wage policy. In the last growing-up period, I sat on the education committee. There we saw, among others. on the attitude of young people towards flexible pay and the reward of extra effort. It turned out that very many young people are very sceptical about entering professions where you do not receive individual remuneration. And this with individual remuneration is just something that SV has fought against in many cases in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e355	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e358	I'm going to come back to a broader presentation on several themes in a little while, but I think I'm going to go «to the points» right away. SV has made a proposal today. Our challenge to the state council is that if he's going to make any of his visions come true, there's one thing about: The cold's time is over. So we can forget about that. It is not possible to get any of what the Council of State says, if he has no one to do the jobs. There are no heads, and there are no hands to do the important jobs. And we can just say that as it is, this is about equal pay and working conditions. In the municipal economic proposition a few years ago, it was said that we were missing about. 60,000 annual works to implement the reforms we have adopted. There are twice as many people in the macro-economy. What do we do with that? It is possible that the Council of State has some vision that it is possible to streamline in this way, but I think he does not know how to do so. Whether the assistant, the cleaner, the teacher, the nurse or the nursery assistant is to work in the private or public sector, they must have attractive and good pay and working conditions, otherwise they find themselves doing something else. It is the most exciting, attractive and well paid jobs today. That is the reality. When skilled workers get better pay by advancing into the administration, and when unskilled people jump off to make jobs as cheap as possible, it goes wrong. We know that. So now there are major projects going on to get a more inclusive working life and so that fewer people will receive disability benefits and sick pay. Okay, what do we mean by that? How do we organize working life to get it done? Are we going to apply the principle of knockouts in bidding rounds where the cheapest tenders win to get this done, or are we actually going to have to deal with this in a different way than that? Now, unfortunately, the health care system is producing patients and the disabled. It's expensive – and it's wrong. I don't believe that flexibility – in the sense that we know the term when the Right uses it, is the answer to that. Because it simply means that someone has to earn even worse than they do today, and have even worse working conditions than they have today, and that someone gets it even better. There is no room for poorer working conditions and poorer pay in these jobs. We need every one of the nurses, the carers and the cleaners. Lack of competence — if that is what is lacking — needs to be met with skills enhancement and quality requirements. So I'm going to go back a little bit to the methods. But first I have to say a little bit about the visions, because the government is starting from one vision, and we have to, when we talk about our policy, start from our vision. It's possibly a little bit different than this government's. Our vision – SV’s vision – is a society without class barriers and social injustice, in ecological balance, and with a stony defence for the rights and opportunities of each person. With such a starting point, the value of securing the individual is superior. So we want more democracy and better well-being for everyone. We see that the welfare state is a very modern project. It's almost new, it's in puberty. It has many errors and still needs adjustments. Many reforms are needed, there is a need for renewal, and there is a need to get more out of the money. We don't disagree with that at all. But I think we first have to figure out what we're going to do, what we're going to do and what qualities it's going to have, before we say we're going to do this cheaper. Then we're going to bomb on the target, because we don't know where we're going. Privatised societies are – as we see it – the old-fashioned solution that we rejected 50 years ago. We saw it didn't work. There were no private solutions that created well-being and prosperity in this country and contributed to redistribution and fairer distribution. I also believe that all modern countries that intend to continue to be democracies need to make sure that the broad majority believes that they are well served with the solutions to welfare tasks that are. Otherwise you're thrown into elections, and you don't want to. And then we get to the last part, and that's the one that's about solidarity. In fact, if everyone is to be well-being, solidarity must be incorporated into the fact that there is a self-interest in this. Solidarity is also modern and effective if it has such policy objectives. So SV thinks it's very modern to have a society that is so that a get kindergarten when you need it, at a price you can afford to pay. It's modern to have a school that's so good that as a parent I don't feel a great need to browse a lot of catalogues and figure out which school is best. The school that is not good enough for my children is not good enough for any children in this country, and it must be the principle that we should govern. So the government says that cooperation across the board is good and right, and that's the agreement of the Swedish Heart. We've been fighting for it for years. Indeed, the size of cooperation projects has been adopted for many years without any particularly effective impact. People don't live their lives within a budget, so here it's a great potential. People are probably not so concerned about who is doing the service either, but that they get it. We agree. But we have to be concerned that we have control of what we're doing, and then you have to be concerned that you don't organize this in some bit by bit structure, which means that you can't take the overall grips across that is necessary to get this done. And it turns out now that it's hard to do it when we have the public as well. After all, we have been doing this with social security offices, social services and employment offices for many years without any major revolution. But the reality is that if we postpone competition in addition to this, it will be completely impossible to achieve it. Not only should you have cooperation like ideology and overall structure to meet the user where the user is, but you need to have competition as well. And competition and cooperation are, in fact, two totally opposite strategies to approach the problem area – we need to emphasise this strongly. Then we'll say that there's a lot of trials going on in municipalities and county municipalities – more than in the state. There's an incredible amount going on across the board. Many people who want to try out solutions are unfortunately meeting a country that is sectoral, which is quite impossible to deal with. That work I and the Swedish Council of State want to be happy to do. We think that's getting heavy, but it's necessary, because we think it's actually also good if local authorities get more opportunity to handle the problem according to local needs. We therefore fully support greater local freedom, because it is not the local politicians in Norway who stand in the way, for example. a better care for the elderly. But they can't magic either. We have to stop saying that if you just have to decide this locally, it's going to be all right, because here, too, there's also a need for consistency between the resources you get locally and the problems you have to solve. I don't think it's like having to teach poor local politicians how to build good old age care and school – no matter how we control the resources – if they just get to do it across the board. We in SV believe that it is an overall goal for us in Stortinget now to ensure quality, define quality and rights more clearly than what we have done today. It's missing. And if we don't do it first, but decentralize first and say that you have to be so kind as to sort this out, that means that we get differences that are unacceptable. We believe that it is a national task to say that all children in Norway have the right to a kindergarten, and we believe that we have to say that. We also believe that there should be a maximum price on this, because we believe that there is a right that should be there for everyone. And it's important to do that, because otherwise we get some differences that we don't want. We don't realize that we get an equivalent offer if we don't. So some people might think it's over-control. But we believe that it is necessary, and that it is to go right into the needs of modern people in everyday life to ensure that these rights and qualities are in place from the side of the Storting, and that the economy is in place – then we have a belief that the local level is well capable of arranging services for the benefit of the user. I would like to refer to the proposal from SV, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e392	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e398	The Labour Party agrees with the Swedish Government that the statement of the Government involves increased privatisation, especially in the areas of health and education, which will lead to greater differences for most people, greater differences between municipalities and greater differences between those living in densely populated areas and those living in more pig-grown areas. Nor is there any doubt that the government intends to save a lot of money instead of providing a better service offer. The Labour Party believes that the overall objective must be to provide users with a better offer throughout the country. This does not mean that the Workers' Party is against the renewal of the public sector. Modernisation, efficiency and simplification are necessary in many areas. And it is actually the Workers' Party that has promoted and adopted the reforms referred to by the Norman Government Council in its presentation – the hospital reform, the quality reform of higher education, the defence reform and the judicial reforms. SV has in very many cases defended it and voted against changes, such as: in the hospital reform, and considered that there is more money needed to improve the provision of services in the public sector. More money into the health sector we have tried many times. The working party believes that both are needed. There's a need for renewal, and there's a need for more money. And then I have to ask if the representative Karin Andersen can give some concrete examples of where SV believes that there is a need for modernisation, and in which areas SV believes that it must also be renewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e407	SV believes that there is a need for innovation and a better public sector in almost all areas. We're not satisfied with what's going on, and that's the starting point for why we're doing politics. But I could do an example. Signe Eye mentions e.g. The hospital reform, which should obviously be a modern reform. It has simply been a change of ownership reform. As far as hospitals are concerned, the Stortinget has had all the means to provide a better health care system. You've been sitting with which patients should be given priority, you've been funding it – the whole system has actually been here in Stortingen, and it hasn't helped it any more. Then you can look at state hospitals. State hospitals have just as large exceedances as counties. What is the point of shifting ownership when the problems are probably in the funding system? And hospitals have one of their biggest challenges in working closely with the first line service in municipalities. Is it going to be easier when it's state-owned than when it was state-owned? I have trouble seeing it, and I perceive that here the Workers' Party has said that it is modernisation just because you move a ownership. But I think I can guarantee that if you're going to get these now state hospitals that were formerly county hospitals to work as you want, you have to bring in a corresponding funding like the one we were in with, for example. at the Rikshospitale just before Christmas, when they had exceeded their budgets. For this is about treating patients. There's been a discussion here where you shift the blame between yourself, who owns it, because it sounds like the county councils won't treat patients. That's a lot of stuff. And such quasi-sir forms have not had a very great need to be involved. We have been involved and we have had a desire for reforms in the health sector that have given more and better patient treatment, where the Stortinge takes responsibility for the funding for which they are actually responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e416	In the budget position, SV said among other things: ‘the public sector must meet people with respect so that everyone can retain their dignity. It does not always happen today». Both the objective of the need and the recognition that it is not always achieved agree with the Right. These include: therefore the Right believes that the grips that the Government has now announced are absolutely necessary. Competitive outsourcing, which for us means cooperation between public and private forces to provide users with better and cheaper services, is not the same as privatisation, as SV tries to produce it as. Healthy competition also in the field of service production could provide more and better welfare services for each krona. This is what we see, for example. in Oslo, where one of the municipality’s own nursing homes won the competition for the service at a lower price than before. It is also very good that the Co-operation Administration has now embarked on a major effort to exploit the potential of each employee better by both getting more hands in work and by taking action to increase the number of people in work. I believe that this is important both for individual workers and for society as a whole. As far as I can see, SV has made few proposals that can improve the system that SV also sees not working well enough in many areas. It seems to me that the SV's prescription is to cash even more money into this system, without doing the necessary steps. In my opinion, both the citizens, who are entitled to the services, and the employees who provide them, deserve better than that. And since SV is so skeptical of the modernisation work that the Co-operation Administration has started, it would be very interesting to know what solutions they have to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e427	The representative of Afghan Rafiq is quite right that SV has been concerned that the public sector should meet people with greater respect than anyone today. This is especially true of those who are so-called unworthy needy who have trouble in their lives. We've been particularly concerned with a topic that has become political consensus over and over again, and it's about people who have complex needs, people like that. needs services from Aetat and for municipal and social services. They have had to go on a rebuse loop that has been almost impossible, they have stuck in the wall on the racket and the slope, met some case handlers who are willing, and who are able to find the dirt holes, met others who have been rigorous, and who have not been able to give them help, and some of them have also been met with a lack of respect. This is a topic that SV has been raising for very many years, and we've been proposing for many years that we have to do something here, so that you get one level to deal with, and that you also make sure you have a code where one paragraph doesn't hit the other. This is a very important thing to do, and this is what SV meant all the time. On the other hand, we express strong scepticism and resistance to competitive outsourcing, because we simply don't think there's any good solution. One of the reasons why it is precisely that the offer to be made by users is even more fragmented. There will be an intermediary between the person who is a politician and the user who will have the offer, where they will also be put through to get a communication with the person responsible. You get a bit for bit division, where these units have to have their own performance responsibility and their own goals that they're going to pursue, and where it's not the user that gets focused, but the individual budget, that's the accounting figures, that's going to go together. And that's the way it is. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e434	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e437	With respect to reporting, the accounting figures also govern the public sector. It's being reduced, it's being cut, and there's a long waiting list. That, therefore, it would be a bit better if you dropped the competition, I find it difficult to see. SV has a vision that there should be no class distinction. But it must not be so that then everyone should have the worst possible! We must make sure that everyone gets the best out of it! And with outsourcing, there will be competition between the public and the private. Representative Andersen talked about state control. I think it must be a fundamental misconception in SV if they think we should release the private market completely, without having municipal, county or state agreements. We are talking about transformation in the public sector. Yes, there is a lot of change in the public sector. There are municipalities with projects that largely result in a new intermediate level, and where there are fewer and fewer krona reaching users. Then I have to ask: is SV really saying that only public employees can reduce the class distinction and improve the quality of the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e448	SV does not believe that the market can create smaller differences in society. That's absolutely right. The market is good at producing bread and other goods, but when it comes to distributing income, reducing differences and producing services that everyone needs, we are absolutely convinced that it does not work. You have to have political governance to get it done. The representative Woldseth is concerned about cutting across the public sector and poor services. Yes, they do, because there are demands in this society. People are asking for more and better services. You want children's playgrounds that are more reasonable, you want care for the elderly, you want a sick home place when you're sick. That's not what you get in Norway today. We actually don't think that the solution to this is that just we're putting it out of competition, we're gonna be fine. In addition to someone probably then going even faster, that means that someone should also sit and make money in this business. I think there's a lot that public can learn from the private when it comes to ways of doing things, but I can't believe that any of the public money is going to go to private profit. What is the logic of that? Then why can't we use that money for better services? And then I want to say that in the municipalities that I have been in, that have been doing conversion work, there have not been any more intermediaries – on the contrary. My home municipality, Eidskog, which has had a converter who was head of Hedmark SV before me, is a municipality that has got many fewer middle managers and many more out in the service. It is a municipality that has done a very good job and needs our whole-hearted support. I think this municipality is an example for follow-up, a municipality in which SV cheers up. We want other municipalities to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e457	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e460	The fundamental question in any modernisation debate of this kind is: why do we really have a public sector? Or, why have we built what we call the welfare society? From the Christian People's Party is the natural answer: it's to realize values, to realize basic values like human dignity, neighbourly love, care and equivalency. Thus, when Victor D. Norman is so strongly at the centre of the individual, he has, in our opinion, laid the right foundation for the work of getting over «From Word to Action», which is the motto of the modernisation work in the public sector. Individuals must focus on daily work and on the basis against which the results are to be measured. It is serious when the individual is increasingly frustrated by going wild in the form jungle, being alienated from a bureaucratic system where more and more knowledge and skills are required to penetrate, who feel insecure about getting sick, destitute or old, and who are met by seemingly endless queues in the auxiliaries. Very often, discussions on the renewal and modernisation of the public sector are heard in both language and content as if it were any listed company. But what all modernisation and all innovation reforms need to be considered first and foremost is whether they contribute to strengthening the values on which the public sector is to realise and build. These values cannot be measured either in dollars or along any numerical scale. One might wonder how the Christian People's Party can contribute to supporting a programme for which the Council of State of the Right is in favour of: emphasis on flexibility, freedom of choice, increased use of competition, more freedom, etc. It should be admitted that these may not be words that we have used so often, and that we need to practice some of these words. But when the Christian People's Party fully supports this, it's precisely because we see that we agree on the goal, and that the goal is right: the public sector exists for the individual human being. Therefore, we have to take the consequences that needs vary from one individual to another. The solutions need to be adapted to the needs of the individual. We see that it's time to correct the course and break something with the A4-shaped similarity approach that's too much permeated our welfare community. This will lead to differences because the measures will not be the same. But they have to be equivalent, because they have to be sufficient to meet the needs that have arisen. And the point is not to save money for the public, State Council Victor D. Norman has insured, but to use them to increase the quality of the individual. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, the goal is the decisive and not the means used to achieve it. They are subordinate to this. The tools are only tools in a toolbox to be used as needed. Over several decades, efforts have been made to renew and improve the efficiency of the public sector. A lot of this has probably been useful. But it still feels like we're further from these goals than ever. Therefore, we need to be willing to see whether the proposals and instruments launched by the Council of State can lead us further. Here's the result that counts. We think it's a good idea to give the so-called sunset principle a chance, to see if it will lead to fewer and clearer regulations. We'll try to see if a collection of state interests will make the state a better owner and make the distinction between the state's role as owner and other state roles clearer. Let's see if it is possible to make a clearer distinction between management and service production and whether this can lead to a more flexible, user-oriented organisation for the part to produce the services – just to make some of the proposals. Human resources policy is at the heart of this strategy and must be of high priority. Understandably, many public servants now feel disturbed. That's normal. It's always going to be like that. However, it is important to stress that this is set up in such a way that individual employees do not get worse, overall. At the same time, however, it is important that individuals can see that the implementation of the measures is for the best of all, and that, if modernisation is not implemented, individuals may have far greater reason to feel threatened. It is gratifying that the Government sees the modernisation process as a means of moving forward in the area of decentralisation. In this context, the relocation of the different supervisory bodies from Oslo is only one of the very many instruments, and probably not the most important. More crucial is the willingness to target the many instruments available to stimulate nutrient development in District Norway. In this context, we see that there is a need to review the instruments that have been in use so far, to see to what extent they have worked. But that doesn't mean, as someone has said, that we should stop using selective instruments. On the contrary, as I have understood the Council of State, it means that they can become even more selective, so that we can really achieve the target management and performance management that we wanted in the early 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e484	The representative, Ola T. Loan, actually took up what I was going to ask about, so the representative himself said that part of the content of the statement is really a problem for the Christian People's Party. With this statement, the Bondevik II Government announces major differences in Norwegian society. The working party fights to ensure that children and adults have equal offers, no matter where they live. The Christian People's Party in government is now running Right-wing and opening up more private offerings in health care and school, which the Christian People's Party has been restrictive to the past. In the past, the Christian People's Party has agreed with the Workers' Party that welfare offers should be independent of what you serve and where you live in the country. In fact, the district politicians of the Christian People's Party have also believed in this. How, then, will the Christian People's Party explain its new policies in relation to privatisation and outsourcing? And how will the Christian People's Party explain and defend the district policy that their own government is currently pursuing, and will continue to follow from the contents of the presentation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e494	The replicator suggested the possibility that the speaker had already answered the question, but there is nothing wrong with him repeating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e497	I think it is necessary to repeat it, because I have a strong suspicion that the representative Torny Pedersen did not hear what I said, nor did I fully understand what I said. In many ways, we have cooperated with the Workers' Party in the design of instruments, both in terms of regional policy instruments and welfare instruments. But what we're seeing now is that many of these instruments have been in use for a very long time, but we haven't come anymore. The deportation continues, the frustration of bureaucracy and forms is greater than ever, people feel renunciation and alienation, and we have to take this seriously. I think this is what makes it not felt as a threat to the Christian People's Party – because we have the same goal. We want better quality of services, and we also want them to be equivalent services. I think you mix equality and equivalence. You should not have the same offers for people who have different needs. They shall have different adapted needs, but shall be equivalent and experienced as equivalent. That's the starting point, and now I think the time has come. I'll give commendation to State Council Victor D. Norman for having dared to take up so much of this substance, and that we are now willing and brave enough to dry up on it. I'm not afraid to take these words in my mouth, but we're not going to dogmatize any of these words. Competitive outsourcing is said – yes, there is a tool in a toolbox, as I said. You don't want to privatize Norwegian society. It remains the responsibility of the public; it must remain the responsibility of the government, but the management must be moved downwards and closer to the user. This does not necessarily mean that there will be less money for the public – on the contrary. But the statement says that you're going to get the most out of the last penny, considering the user. It was freely quoted, but at least that's the point. I think that we should be able to agree on that goal, and then the instruments are subordinate to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e506	The previous speaker said that perhaps many people were wondering about the Christian People's Party's policy in this area, and that's right. Many of us are wondering what the Christian People's Party is doing. But we can't say that we're surprised, because we knew that this would be the consequence. The Christian People's Party also had to know this when they entered into a cooperation in a government that has competitive outsourcing, privatisation and price financing as an overall tool to change the public sector. So it's not the user in the center -- what we call people -- that's the continuous line in the document presented by Victor D. Norman. There's a system change and a focus on changes in the systems that, in my opinion, are what's in the center. So what's happening now is that the values of the Christian People's Party, the party with the great heart, have always stood for, that is, the heart of the center. What you're doing by changing the systems is saying that it's no longer the heart to control what kind of treatment the people who need help are going to get. Now it's the money that's going to be in focus. So it's not like private companies are governed by the heart, but private companies are governed by the desire to maximize profits. Then it could be at the expense of the people we're going to help. This is what surprised us, but hardly can surprise us, when the Christian People's Party went to government with the Right. My question, which I am sure to ask with the rapporteur on Skjervøy and many others, is: when there is a constant system shift towards the follow-up of the money to the users, how can it be avoided that there are greater differences between the offers to be given to individual people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e513	The President will note that placing the heart in the center will be a biological revolution. Most species have it, as far as I know, on the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e516	The representative Heikki Holmås continues on the same line as the representative Pedersen in the previous line, and speaks of the Christian People's Party here having entered into a system change that many wonder about, but which does not surprise. This is neither threatening nor problematic for the Christian People's Party. I have tried both in my post and in the line to explain why. Firstly, the public sector in Norway should continue to be large. Victor Norman has said that the point is not to reduce the public sector, but it is to use it better for the individual. Then it is completely wrong, as the representative Holmås says, that the users are not in the center, but the money. What's the point, and that's what the representative Heikki Holmås hasn't discovered, is that this is just the individual human being standing in the center. Then we are at the heart of the Christian People's Party, which is our main starting point. The money is a means. Why in the world should we be afraid of competition? It exists everywhere in society, and it is a positive incentive to work out good deeds. It doesn't mean that we're going to privatize, but it's going to be a liability at every level to choose the means, including the use of money, that you see going where they're needed, based on a result measurement based on the individual human being's, the individual's, signals of where the needs are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e523	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed to maintain the county and the regionally elected level, contrary to the Right, which aims to bring down the county municipality. I have noticed Prime Minister Bondevik's promise of 800 million. kr extra to the county, during a Christian People's Party conference in Bergen. Then I would like to underline the title of the distribution to the Council of State: ‘Modernisation, efficiency and simplification in the public sector’. The regional level, the county, is a large part of the public sector, and it concerns a large number of users. Then it is alarming that one in the distribution does not mention the county with a single word. Introductory terms: ‘State and municipality have taken responsibility for some of the most important tasks in the Norwegian community...’» There's been a lot of talk about putting the user in the center, and it's been pointed out by the Christian People's Party once that it's important to put the user in the center. I want to challenge the Christian People's Party in their view when it concerns the county municipality. Does it not also have a large responsibility in the public sector and with regard to the individual user? And it wouldn't have been possible for one of them to come up with the tasks under the county council, for example. the continuing schools, as I see as very important, and the child-resistance services? That's my challenge to the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e537	In a way, I am somewhat surprised that the representative Sollied Överaas does not address this reply to the Council of State which has made the statement, but to the undersigned. The theme is the county council and why it is not mentioned in the statement. I will pass that question on to the Council of State, and he will have the opportunity to answer it later. But what matters to the county council, and the challenge you gave me, I'll try to say a little bit about it. It is true that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party initially had a different view of the county. Now there is a major reform of the county because the health services are being removed, and the county council will have new tasks. When Prime Minister Bondevik announced increased appropriations for the county, it was precisely in order to be able to target the county for a new time, and to enable the county to be an overall planning and development body in each region. It will probably also include the secondary school, as requested by the replicator. We know that many state politicians today are concerned about the future and the situation of the county municipality. I think many were reassured by Prime Minister Bondevik's play this weekend. I also think we will see that the Government will come up with new measures both in terms of secondary school and other areas of the county's natural task area. When government council Norman didn't take this, I guess it was because he chose to keep the presentation on a general, principled level. I don't think it was meant to go outside the county council at all. On the contrary, I believe that these principles apply equally there, although very many of the tasks of the county council are probably not first-line services to the extent that the tasks of the primary municipalities are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e546	The President will remind you that if anyone is going to be the subject of direct action, it is the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e551	First, it may be appropriate to clarify that the Prime Minister has not granted new money to the county council. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, has delegated to the County Council the right to put his name set on a check that the former Minister of State put his name on. These are two very different things. It's very exciting to read in the statement that we have to debate today, and it's actually a good deal to agree with. There is a great need to get more out of each krona used in the public sector. It is also necessary to give greater emphasis to individual needs, as addressed by the Council of State. Services must be adapted as far as possible to the needs of the individual. Decentralisation of decision-making powers is necessary. This is both reasonable and highly necessary. And it is also absolutely necessary to remove unnecessary bureaucracy, eliminate unnecessary detailed regulation and unnecessary earmarking. The government will also receive the wholehearted support of the Central Party in the work of relocating state institutions, which was a project that I spent quite a lot of time on in my time as Minister of Municipal Affairs. This is where the Central Party is committed to being a proponent, and I will therefore already take the opportunity to address the proposal put forward by the Central Party. Equal opportunities for good public services, independent of their own economy and irrespective of their place of residence, will be at the bottom of all developments in the public sector. In my opinion, this is not at all the case in the government's order. Market management will create increased differences. The government is now introducing a principle that the Advance Party has made itself a spokesman for: The money must follow the users. It is a principle that is being extended to increasingly new areas, and so far the Progress Party has been more or less alone to assert in the way that the Government is now doing. And this combined with larger elements of private services in both health and education, more privatisation and more market management will make greater differences. I honestly think we can admit that only as last time. It will give rise to greater geographical differences, and it will give rise to greater social differences. There are some striking features of this statement, and it is not surprising that Ola T. Loans have to refer to the Council of State in order to explain why the county council is not mentioned. For the county as a level of government is not mentioned in one word. Concepts such as «State», «municipalities» – not the municipal sector, but the municipalities – «individual sectors», «eaters» and «service-producing units» are used. The regional level is gone in the Right Future Society. I don't think we should admit that at last. It's gone – it's not mentioned in one word. The other thing that's striking is that you have a unified belief that the market will sort out. We're talking more about delegation than we're talking about decentralization. We talk more about control from the local authorities than about participation and popular influence. This is not a decentralised government, but it's a delegated government, in my opinion. But at least as interesting as reading the Council of State's statement, it was actually also reading an article in NHO's January 2001 journal 'HORISONT' written by Vice-Chancellor Victor D. Norman. When you read the paper, it is quite clear that political craftsmanship is at least the basis of the presentation we are discussing today. It's written by Victor D. Norman himself, not by the government department. And there are a lot of similarities in the presentation and in this post. It's the same analysis, it's a lot of the same medicine, but the purpose and the effects come out more clearly in that principal Norman writes in the paper than in that politician Norman writes in his statement. Vice-Chancellor Norman describes the gains in the event of a public restriction. More exemption, more outsourcing, more prudent privatisation and, where appropriate, increased user payment are the medicines that will lead to more efficiency. Thus, Vice-Chancellor Norman provides examples of some areas where political decision-making does not lead to the necessary efficiency: inefficiency in primary school, which is due to refusal to close schools with low pupils, inefficiency in the transport sector, which is due to a lack of willingness to limit railway operations to the central eastern region, and to allocate funds to road investment according to cost-benefit criteria. According to Norman, this kind of inefficiency will be eliminated with exemption, outsourcing, prudent privatisation and possibly increased user payment. Do we then find this again in the government's policy? Yeah, then to those degrees. It's summarised in a section on page 9 of his script. It says the following: «Work objective number three is a more efficient public sector. We need to get more and better services out of each krona used, we need to redeploy resources to the areas where we get the most out of the last krona, and we need to figure out a division of labour between the public and the users that makes the total costs of public service provision as low as possible." In practice, it is exactly the same as in the article last year, which will lead to greater differences in geographical, greater social differences – a policy that the Progress Party has so far been alone in and on which, to put it mildly, it is surprising that the Christian People's Party is also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e583	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e589	Odd Roger Enoksen once again points out the privatization ghost. The centre party is amazing. In the budget configuration of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, page 16: ‘The centre party is in favour of a public sector which is efficient, non-bureaucratic and with the least intermediary possible.’ Nevertheless, the main priorities of the Centre Party in the same budgetary position are clearly characterised by defence for the existing and resistance to new and user-friendly public services. Unlike the Center Party, the Right will take the consequence that society is changing faster than ever before, and that you and I in today's Velferds-Norway require solutions that are more adapted to our individual needs. Time immature for changes in government. The services shall be user-friendly, we shall meet the individual with flexible arrangements, adapt the kindergartens to the kindergartens, adapt the schools to the needs of the students, provide the patient with what the patient needs and wants, and we shall do so as far as we can. But in order to do this, there must be a will for action, for without will there will be no change. The only thing I can do is get me out of the Central Party's will for action, is that there's going to be more money into the public sector. But the Center Party doesn't see that it's necessary to make better use of the resources, so that we get better services for the heads we're already using. And what about restructuring? What about new work divisions between public and users just to improve services? And I want an answer to the following: in what way will the Central Party meet today's and tomorrow's challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e605	I'm not invoking the privatization ghost – and I don't see any reason to do that. For one who has spent his entire adult life for the first time in establishing business, then in working as a business manager, and who has spent not least 20 years of his life in private ambulance services, there is no reason to have such an approach. And I absolutely do not share the claim of the representative Heikki Holmås that private business is not governed by the heart. I have met many business managers and many private businesses that do just that. But that's not the starting point for the Central Party's approach to this matter -- there are equal opportunities for offers, regardless of their place of residence and their economy, which are to be at the bottom of the society we're going to build. It will not be the situation if the market and privatisation are to steer ahead to a greater extent than it has already done. Then I agree with the representative that action in the public sector is needed to ensure that we get better offers, more of each krona, that we get more custom-made services. I believe that this is actually best done by being aware of our responsibilities and releasing the local population-elected level, so that local adaptations and local assessments of what is appropriate around the individual community can be made, and that we do not regulate so much from here how services are to be performed. Local self-government is to have local influence over how society should be designed, as opposed to delegated government, which I perceive the government's policy to be more and more, when the function of the local level is primarily to control how the service is performed, not to facilitate equal offers for all. It is the market that primarily governs access to services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e614	We in the Workers' Party have many common positions with the Centre Party, among others. this by calling for public, good welfare, strengthening district policy and establishing new state jobs in rural areas. But my experience of the Center Party is that it often becomes more word than action. Among other things, we saw that when Enoksen himself was in government, establishing state jobs out in District Norway was a highly flagged matter, but there was little concrete out of it. We may not have flagged that case as high, but we were more concerned about getting concrete results: the Coastal Agency, the Public Hospital Purchasing Office, the Court Administration was added to Trondheim, etc. So my first question to Enoxen is: What concrete action does Enoxen intend to take to achieve this? The second thing I experience with the Center Party is that sometimes they tend to fall in love with the systems, fall in love with the structures, and don't have the capacity for renewal that a strong public sector actually depends on. That is what we saw in the conversion of industrial policy in the districts. They are more concerned with preserving the old jobs than helping to create new viable jobs in District Norway. So my second question to the representative of Enoxen is: does Enoxen now see that with a new and more dynamic industrial policy in the districts, the conversion we were doing will provide a better basis for district policy than to hesitate and freeze solid old business structures?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e621	All the examples of Trond Giske now mentioned in relation to the relocation of state jobs were measures in which the investigations and the preparatory work were initiated by the central government. The relocation took place after the government change, and in the time of the government, Stoltenberg, but it was actually done on the Council of State table, everything ready to do that job. The investigations were carried out in advance. It is absolutely right that it was difficult to achieve results for the central government. Why was that? Well, for first of all, as the central government promoted the Stortinget, both the Workers' Party and the Right went against emigration. That was the agricultural bank at the time. And there was strong resistance. Arguments such as the demolition of families, forced relocation, were used by both the Workers' Party and the Right's representatives. And then what did we do? Well, I saw pretty quickly that it was necessary to choose a completely different approach to those issues if we were to have the opportunity to do that. For this reason, extensive cooperation between the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Administration, in which a report was presented in March 2000, one week after the government change, showing that a place between 1500 and 2 000 jobs could be moved out only in the departments, where tasks were transferred and not the whole of the institutions. I saw that it would be better to make it than to move the whole institution, first and foremost because it would be easier to get in touch with it in the Stortinget. This work can be carried out, where no further studies or investigations are necessary – the work has been done, it is only to be started. So we're going to be a pusher. The first people who started talking about this were the Center Party, and I think that without our involvement in this area nothing would have happened. So to the claim that the Center Party has made it easy to fall in love with systems and structures. Yes, the Central Party is a defender of the small units, we are a defender of decentralization and in many respects a defender also of that we should have equal offers around. But I distance myself from the representative's claim that we are not willing to think new. Just to mention two examples that I spent a lot of time on as a government council: the development of business environments such as local environments just to create a dynamic, competent business in small communities, and the work to achieve a level playing field across the country, which would also make it possible to achieve a dynamic, innovative business policy across the country. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in getting the Workers' Party to implement that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e630	I see the Centre Party – like SV – as a reasonable fundamentalist resistance to all the efficiency, privatisation and outsourcing of competition, and in recent years I may have seen a turn where the Centre Party has become a sort of anti-privatisation strategy. Like the first replicator, I believe that by going back to the Budget-inner. S. No 2 for 2001-2002 may address a little of the views of the Centre Party. So here we are talking about efficiency, privatisation and outsourcing, and I quote from page 19: ‘Over time, it does not provide a quality welfare offer, it does not provide cheaper service, nor does it create greater security in society.’ I can provide reports, including: from the FAFO, from the Hanne Book, which says: «Swedish experience with the outsourcing of care services shows no overall decline in quality; on the contrary, the overall picture is constant quality, often also quality improvements, despite cost reductions.» Another FAFO report, also from the book of Hanne, says: ‘Of 219 municipalities with private renovation/spare collection, 95 % report good experience. Of 276 municipalities with private road maintenance/snowmilling, 97 % report good experience.’ State Consultant has reported 20 pst. the potential for efficiency in the public sector. I could stand here for half an hour and read out reports of efficiency gains and competitive outsourcing and the positive sides. My question is then: Where is the documentation of the view of the Central Party that these measures do not provide cheaper services and more qualitative services?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e654	As I said in my main post, I have among other things. used 20 years of my life in private ambulance service, a private ambulance service that was operated up to one third of the cost of a comparable public ambulance service. Whether the quality was as good or better, I'm not going to make myself the spokesman for. Actually, I don't think so. The reason why it could be run cheaper was that we, who were running the private ambulance service, were actually willing to make it a lifestyle more than a profession. We were willing to go on duty 24 hours a day after 24 hours just to reduce costs. It was at the bottom of this type of ambulance service, and there was much more evidence of a purely voluntary commitment than of competitive outsourcing in that way the Progress Party likes to describe it as. In fact, for a number of years, I have also driven snow mining of municipal roads for the municipality, and made it far more reasonable than the municipality itself could have done. Of course, the centre party is not opposed to the type of competition, whether it be snow mining, renovation, plumbing services, joinery services or whatever it may be. And if the representative Knudsen is willing to look around in many of the central party-driven municipalities, he will see that that is precisely the case. But there is, in fact, a significant distinction between the competitive outsourcing of that kind of thing and the outsourcing of health care and education. There is also a fundamental difference in the way services are financed, whether they are financed through the tax bill and where there should be equal offers for everyone, or whether to leave the money with the user, which would be one-sided to the disadvantage of the small units. Think of a school with six students and with price financing, where the money will follow the user: that school will be closed on the spot. It would simply not be possible to finance that type of school. And it's going to be interesting to see how the Government intends to preserve diversity in relation to preserving the small units that we know are more expensive to run with that kind of funding than the big ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e666	The Council of State presentation was like music in the ears of the Left. I have registered that it is also positive in the ears of some others, and the more, the better. The working party has obviously fallen back to old conservative positions. It's strange, and it's actually a little disappointing after all the prestige that's been laid down in this field by the government of Stoltenberg. Then it didn't end very well either. What I was very happy about today was the introduction to Karin Andersen. She said that SV's vision is possibly different from that of the government, and I don't think the difference is so big. SV actually states more constructive and radical tones than what the Workers' Party is doing here, although we got a slight setback from the representative Holmås. There is also a lot of propaganda and many symbols in this political debate. Those who claim that there is pure Right-wing policy in the sense of weakening the state and weakening the community have not heard well enough after, or they may have a different agenda. We in the Left share the idea base in this presentation. It's a basic good social liberal policy where man, not the system, is put in the centre. It is a fundamentally different approach than the traditional social democratic approach. The left is also pleased with the focus on decentralised efficiency. The centre party at Meltveit Kleppa, on the other hand, has taken an ideological seven-mile step away from the belief in local democracy to a socialist equality process far to the left of what SV has stood for. The left's fundamental view of society is about freedom and responsibility. The state is for the citizen, not the other way around. The presentation and the plans of the Government are permeated by this attitude, and it is the Left very pleased. The citizens must feel that ‘you are the boss’ when they meet the state, which was also the slogan of the Left this election struggle. We want a stronger, effective and active state. Without reform and renewal, the welfare state will be wriggled in an increasing amount of money and it will become increasingly difficult to meet citizens' expectations. In the central government, the Left initiative of the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ took place. This work is now continuing and developing in the new government. The point is that everyday life should be easier for individuals and for business. Today, public help is so complicated that you need to be healthy to be sick, and you need to be resource-intensive to be resource-weak. A simpler Norway is actually social balancing. In some other areas, too, we recognise good left-wing proposals, such as: sunset legislation, distinguishing between the country's role as owner and supervisor and coordination of services related to employment, social security and social services. We hope, of course, that this will be the forerunner of our vision of pay for citizens – a guaranteed minimum income that people can get without being clientised or subject to controlling bureaucracy. It has been said that there is a part about competitive outsourcing and so-called privatisation. Mix the concepts, possibly in a deliberate attempt to confuse them. The statement is clear with regard to public liability. From the point of view of the Left, it is not at all concerned that non-governmental organisations and private enterprises are involved in the provision of public services. The point is that the government has to govern, it has to be a professional buyer, a professional provider that allows the services to be performed as efficiently as possible, and then you get the quality you expect. Then, of course, you have to discuss limits on what you are willing to let others do, and in the left, we see that the border is clearly going by putting out the exercise of powers. Freedom is the basic concept of a socially liberal fundamental view, because we believe freedom leads to responsibility and commitment. This freedom must also be felt by people in the administration. The left will release the bureaucrats. The decision of public servants to determine the detail of all kinds prevents common sense and leads to nothing being done in fear of doing anything wrong. Let's take a chance. Leave aside appeals to users who may be subject to unreasonable decisions. Delegation, decentralisation, local freedom and local responsibility shall be the main principles of efficiency, said the Council of State. That is the agreement of the Left Heart. The same applies to the need for employees to be involved in the process. Public servants are often subjected to unfair criticism from those who meet the bureaucrats, criticisms that are most often due to the system and just lack of freedom and responsibility. Release the bureaucrats! An example of improving the efficiency of public resources is procurement policy. It is important that competition policy is strengthened and public procurement becomes more cost-effective. A State procurement portal for electronic commerce can deliver significant efficiency gains. In Ashim, 3.5 million was saved. NOK only on invoice processing. It is money that can go well for other purposes. But the left is also concerned with the small businesses' public procurement opportunities and will return to this matter. Labour shortages are a problem in Norway and will increase in relatively few years. Public opinion must increasingly compete for scarce labour, and we will also have to recruit more from abroad. The left and the government will have a new regime for labour immigration, where recruitment and integration are becoming more responsible for employers. I think this debate has been politically elucidating. It shows where we have the radicals and where we have the systemic forces in this matter. The left is in a radical, innovative policy based on the fact that the freedom of individuals and our common well-being are at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e702	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e705	Oslo has been an exhibition window for civil cooperation, where the Christian People's Party and the Left have worked closely with the Right. Modernisation of the public sector has also been a flagship issue. The front page of the presentation to the government council Norman had a verse of Rudolf Nilsen's poem. I'll quote just a little bit of it, because I think it's more relevant: “Give me the cold and wise... nothing is more like the writing of the true than promises of love.” – It was part of the poem that was perhaps the least pleasant, for it has been in Oslo. Oslo has become a colder city to live in as a result of this modernisation, as a result of this privatisation. Older people get unworthy old age, but poverty has become a growing problem, the municipality does business renting out own homes – because it is more right than thinking about including socially disadvantaged people. Schools are due, youth leisure is lost or made dependent on parents’ ability to pay. The City Council of Oslo is seeking confrontation with its employees, not cooperation and dialogue. This has been active on the left side. Oslo privatizes, but does not streamline. Oslo has become a greedy city for those who need support. Oslo has no warmth of heart, which I thought left really should be concerned about. My question to the representative Skei Grande is therefore: does she think that the experience of Oslo provides a good basis for guidance on the Government's objective of modernising and improving efficiency in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e721	I think I have to encourage the head of state of the Oslo Workers' Party to follow up on what's going on in the city council. It is clear that there is a part that is exposed to competition, for example: the large-scale kitchen business, for which the Workers' Party's municipal board of directors was responsible, but was pressured by the trade union to oppose it. When we started that work in Oslo, it was the first time you discussed quality. It was the first time you discussed what is a good meal in a nursing home. We have gained much better quality in public services, because we have actually made quality rules on what public services should be. It's possible you can call Oslo greedy, and it's possible the schools are due, but as long as the Left has been involved in making budgets in Oslo, we've spent $6 billion on school buildings. While Hanne Harlem was running the schools in Oslo, she spent $19 million. kr. It is not a single leisure offer in Oslo. Before you believe it, you have to point out what it is. When I was a school bureau, we renewed the organization of the schools, with increased decentralization, and less was spent on invoice work and paperwork and more on schoolwork. We moved 180 employees from the central school budget to the schools. There's one insurmountable. It has not been a single protest from any of the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e733	I want to challenge the representative Trine Skei Grande in an area that SV sees as very modern and innovative, and that is the area of equal pay for women and men. We perceive that it is rather old-fashioned to have systems that ensure that women systematically end up in low-paid jobs, in poorly paid jobs. They also have to do a lot of heavy jobs without having opportunities for good pay development, and also jobs that are so heavy that you get heavy load damage. SV has made a proposal today that we regard as quite offensive, where we ‘on the part of the Government, the ability of the public sector to recruit and maintain labour through equal pay and an offensive wage and employer policy’. We believe that equal pay is necessary, and in order for a society to be able to call itself modern, we must have systems that make it possible. Or does the Left believe that a purely market system should be able to provide equal pay for women who are to carry out these jobs, whether or not the jobs are put at a competitive disadvantage? Does Left believe that? If so, can the representative Skei Grande explain how she thinks it should be possible to do so? Or is it such that equal pay for women and men is not an objective for the Left, and therefore is it not subject to any political action by the Left in order to achieve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e745	The left has always been concerned with equal pay, and we have a women's movement behind us that has always helped put it on the agenda. But it's not that the public is the best in that area. In fact, public employees are not women in any way the pay-leading women in Norway today. That means that maybe it's not the government's way of fixing wages that's always been the best. I have a great deal of faith in cooperation with the trade unions, and I have a great deal of faith in dialogue with those elected to trust. The reorganization that I've been in the school establishment, which I referred to before, has shown us how far we can go with that kind of dialogue. I think we have to look at other ways of fixing pay. I think in dialogue with the trade unions we need to look at opportunities to develop this in other ways. I can mention one example: the financial industry is probably the industry in Norway that has been affected by the greatest change, the biggest technology impact. If we compare banks ten years ago with banks today, we see clearly that they are very different. They have had a trade union that has been engaged in dialogue, a trade union that has had no strikers, but also a trade union where people have actually been wage winners. I think we have to look at other ways of raising wages. I'm also challenging the trade unions to join that discussion, but I think we're going to work against equal pay for men and women across society as a whole. It is important both in public and in private, but perhaps it has a little public to learn from the private, because the public has definitely not been the best way to value women's labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e752	It is possible that I heard the error. But I understand that Trine Skei Grande in his post gave me a responsibility that the Center Party had now taken seven-mile steps back into the trenches. I'll give her the opportunity to elaborate on what she's saying there. Is it that we have used words that will strengthen our confidence in the local government and the local self-government? Is it that we want to make greater use of local freedom when it concerns the way the municipalities provide their services? Or is it that we have found reason to demand a regionally elected level and pointed to e.g. the collective responsibility of the county council today, for the further education, which is not at all mentioned in the Council of State's disbursement? Or could it be that I have given honor to the government council Norman because he wants the employment office, social security offices and social work offices to cooperate in a way that is for the benefit of the individual? Because it can't be that we have notified that we are still on the barricades – and not in the trenches – to secure equivalent living conditions in this country, and that we don't believe that there is a market ready to make services better for health or school? The left has removed itself from our common government platform, e.g. where there is a threat to exposure to competition in the care of the elderly. In the past, we've had a deal to get the municipalities out of competition and privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e759	I would like to explain: my starting point is the Center Party's pronounced fear of inequalities between municipalities. You have to be open to the local maritime administration, you just have to decide nothing but what you do in the neighbouring municipality. That similarity I don't always think is the best. I think the politicians you choose are the best ones to find the solutions. Then, of course, there are people who have chosen the wrong politicians. It is still happening, but the consequences of local policy choices have to be taken. We in the Left are concerned about having that freedom. That freedom I thought also the Center Party was concerned about. It was here that I realized that you were more concerned with all the services being equal than with supporting local democracy. It was the great time gap I saw in relation to the statements. We in the Left have strong faith in the local government. We have great faith in finding common solutions. We have great faith in having a strong municipality. But we don't think the actual provision of services must always be in the municipality. In this city, there have always been non-governmental organisations that have run most of the care for the elderly. I do not believe that this has led to any deterioration in the care of the elderly. I think that when the Church's Bymission runs a nursing home, they get many other old ladies to stand up and exercise a care in addition, which the public had never been able to motivate people to do. Finding the threads that enable us to bring in non-governmental organisations, that we can bring in the whole thing around the elderly, is just the locals that can do. Let me give you an example: Oslo has an island called Hudøy, where you have a holiday colony. It's taken over the Church's Bymition. There are doctors who are willing to use their vacation to work. As they borrow a cabin and a sailboat, they are willing to spend their vacation on the island. That means you have a medic 24 hours a day. Do you think anyone would have been willing to do that for the Municipality of Oslo? I don't think so. But it is quite clear that there are some who are willing to use their summer for the Church's City Mission. To trigger that kind of commitment, I think it's best to use local solutions, best to bring volunteers and best to see the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e771	For the Workers' Party, the public welfare offer is the most powerful instrument for translating political values into reality. It's our strongest tool to give people the most basic security, well-being and freedom. And that's our strongest tool to achieve the goal of equal opportunities for all. Therefore, it is also so vital that we constantly ensure that services are geared to the needs and needs of users and that they are flexible, accessible and of high quality. At the same time, it is essential that we constantly ask how we can make the best use of resources, make best use of society's overall resources, and how we can get the most well-being out of what we use in the public sector. We must have the power to transfer resources from sectors with declining needs to those with increasing needs and from administration to services for users. That was also the basis when the Labour Party government launched the largest and most systematic renewal of the public sector that we have probably ever seen here in the country. Free hospital choice is one example of putting users in the centre. But user orientation also presupposes that the administration is getting better at cooperating. Few people have a clear picture that the social security office is state-owned and the social work office is municipal. Our task is to make services as accessible as possible. Therefore, the goal of one-door public service offices and one barrier in all municipalities is an answer to that, while the day-to-day administration was and is another important response to that. We need to make regulation and reporting easier. Hundreds of regulations were removed during the previous government. Hundreds of them removed reporting schemes. That, of course, needs to be continued. ‘Hearing’ is an ‘impossible principle of reporting and control’, as Jørgen Kosmo so eloquently stated in the statement of last year. At the same time, we need to get more well-being for the money. That's why the Stoltenberg government moved 400 police posts from the administration to active police work. That's why we reorganized the equation management so that more people could work on complicated equations and fewer of what they did in the time before we started delivering the tax return on the Internet. That is why we reorganized the university system, with faster training courses and greater opportunity to be a full-time student. It releases significant labour resources. That's why we reorganized Defense to adapt to a new security policy situation. That's why we reorganized the Post, and put eleven health wards together to three, to mention something. Few have said that it was done too little and too slowly. However, I noticed that at the opening of the debate today, the committee leader stated that the renewal work of the Workers' Party was only a small ‘crisis on the road’. Then I have to say that I have expectations of what this government will do in the next 16 months. I rather perceive that the new government is noticing that it will continue the work that the Stoltenberg government put into operation. That's good. But so far we haven't seen any new, big, structural grips, as the previous government did. It is important that the Government continues to focus on this, for example: by following the initiative of the Stoltenberg Government to simplify and merge State supervision. It is also important that the Government follows up – as it has indicated – the arrangements of the Stoltenberg government to add all new state activities outside Oslo. It is important to ensure a good regional distribution of jobs and to ensure the good accessibility of government services to the population of all parts of the country. But it is also a strength for businesses to gain access to motivated labour even outside Oslo. In particular, we need to focus on the possibilities of introducing new activities into places that are particularly adversely affected by public change. Then there is reason to warn against the Government's notice of increased emphasis on private health care and private schools. There is a policy for increasing differences. We should guard against a situation in which the resource-intensive and wealthy develop a quality offer for themselves, while the basis for the offer to people is most weakened. Increased emphasis on price financing will, by its very nature, mean that those with the largest customer base are the strongest. The sum could be a weakening in the districts, where the customer base is smaller. Where Norman warns of new policies, he therefore warns a society with increasing differences between social groups and between districts. That's where the political divisions lie, because in that case, the government weakens the ability to offer equal opportunities to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e786	I noticed that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen had great expectations for the Government – I actually thought there was a little hope there. In this way, it's good to hear that the opposition also has confidence that we're going to get this. But then to the account itself – From word to action. That's actually a pretty exciting statement. I say that even though I belong to one of the government parties. By reading through it and being honest, I think it's a lot new, a lot exciting, a lot that excites the idea – and that's good. It's actually pointed out in some media that this statement is going to get wise. That it tastes of bird, has also been a comment in the media. So what's the essence? Well, the presentation is first of all very strongly consumer-oriented. It has a clearly decentralising profile, it will be responsible, and it recognises, in spite of what the representative Giske was inside here instead, the considerable competence of public sector employees. The statement therefore indicates a new course in relation to what the Workers' Party has done so far. It emphasises that consumers are also individuals and thus different, and emphasises that our country has different areas and that the needs are different. Therefore, the offer will be adapted to the individual’s needs, not standardised through a stream of key regulations that have had a high degree of ‘equality’ as a goal and discharge as a result. Social-democratic equality has little focus on individual individual needs and rights. It's just as little consumer-oriented. Consumers have thus felt that both availability and offers have been low on their part. It has created frustration and dissatisfaction with public services. The presentation, from word to word, gives signals and clear messages about a much more consumer-oriented policy. This shall be done by putting the consumer in the centre. Services shall be adapted to the individual. There must be a necessary diversity, so that there is variation and freedom of choice. This will increase the individual's freedom of choice, but consumers are primarily concerned with their services. How it's organized, they don't care much about anything at all. It's kind of like when I go to the bank. I do not then ask how the bank organizes its services. I am concerned about whether they are available, whether I can carry out the services I am looking for, whether I get paid my bills or take out my money in a simple and tidy way. In fact, the satisfaction of consumers is the very goal – not in itself that the offer is equal. That's not the goal in itself. The aim is that consumers are satisfied, and no one in this Chamber will claim that the Norwegian people are satisfied with all public services? But then it's also time to do something about it! This consumer orientation and the focus on the individual are in stark contrast to what the Workers' Party did when they were in government. When Kosmo in his time said that the employees should have vetoed in the case of public sector conversion measures, what did he have in mind? Well, the system, not the individuals, the consumers out there, for which the services are to be provided. The truth is, when you have such a rule-driven system, you also have a very centralistic system. There is also some of the things in this statement; one will be much more decentralised, by giving decision-making powers to local practitioners. It will give greater opportunities and greater variation, but it will also make jobs in the public much more exciting. There's a significant competence out there. I remember from my time as rapporteur that in our time we got the right idea – in my opinion the very good idea – that we were going to have to deal with curative constructions in one hour. No one can imagine how many counter-conceptions there were, until each one was asked to draw up a list of conditions that prevented us from implementing this measure. Then the employees in the municipality came up with that list. They showed a tremendous creativity in this, and we got it done. The paradox was that it was this house that then suddenly had to change the planning and building law, detailed to such an extent that it was impossible to implement this, which destroyed the whole approach that we had actually been given. Finally, what is important in this context is precisely what I initially tried to say, that this information, this statement, is much more consumer-oriented. Well, it's true, as someone says, that there will be something different about it in Norway. But if the result is that the Norwegian people are better served and more satisfied with the public services, yes, the goal is achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e805	State Council Victor Norman’s statement – Modernisation, efficiency and simplification in the public sector – was very promising and represents an important step in the right direction in the work on the most required modernisation process in the public sector. For too long, Norway has had an approximate Jumbo site in terms of the capacity for public renewal and modernisation. The right of public monopolies to carry out and operate public-funded welfare tasks has long been questioned. This state of public monopoly has resulted in a lack of efficiency and quality in the public sector, and so we see the consequences today, in the form of a state of state of state prosperity that is increasingly characterised by inadequacy and by errors and shortcomings that we cannot live with in the long term. However, the wise presentation of the Councils should mark a turning point in this way. Renewal, modernisation and efficiency of public activities are one of the greatest promises we face as a nation and as politicians, for this is by no means an easy matter to solve just like that overnight. Let me make it clear emphatically that the really great efficiency potential of public activities is not collapsing any police districts here or some road offices or some military camp there. The real potential for efficiency is to create an active competition between a variety of public and private actors to operate the publicly funded welfare production. To this end, we need to stimulate, among other things, a diversity of private hospitals, a diversity of private schools and a diversity of private care establishments, in order to create healthy competition based on quality and price and the right of citizens to choose freely what they prefer: public or private providers. This, of course, also presupposes a shift of the current financing mechanism to a new financing system on the basis of the principle that the money follows the user or the customer. This could revolutionise the welfare society and open up a welfare market with optimal competition and focus on quality, scale and cost levels. The faults and shortcomings of the welfare state are not primarily the result of insufficient money, but the result of the total lack of quality promotion competition on the supplier side. The main handicap of the welfare state is that it has been protected for years from any efficiency-enhancing competition. It has not been long since the Statskonsult and Sandbeck commission concluded that it was 10-30 pst. – or around 40 billion – to save by introducing competition between public and private to operate public welfare services. We must therefore say that now it must approximate the hospital monopoly, the care monopoly and the monopoly school to compete on equal terms with private operators to attract users or customers in a welfare market. It will strengthen the quality and scope of these services. Many public employees should be the first to welcome this small revolution, so now they are given opportunities to improve wages and working conditions in a new large and dynamic labour market in the welfare sector, with a variety of private welfare players who will have to compete to attract their labour. To achieve this, as politicians, we must cut through all resistance and act with resolute will to act. This conversion work must now be initiated in full with full gravity as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible. Here, the freedom and freedom of choice of individuals are at the centre, both the users, the employees and the taxpayers become the winners in this process of conversion which we are debating here today. There is indeed reason for me to be in a kind of hallelujah mood about the content of the statement we are debating today. That's when my time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e822	It is good to hear that the representative is in the mood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e825	It is exciting when even the representative Torbjørn Andersen begins to resort to ‘hallelujam’. This will be an interesting political future. When the political and social commitment among peoples becomes the most weaker – the industry sees the public as bureaucratic, the regulation as a hesitancy, and among many who pay taxes, it is perceived that there is not a reasonable relationship between what we pay in taxes and what we get – is the need for modernisation and simplification clearly in place. Why are we doing this? _Because: We still have people in health queues, and children's caretakers still have individuals with dissatisfaction in the school, quality problems and problems with the motivational user and the services need to be more focused. So, there are challenges that lead us. They must now be apprehended. Efficiency is never a goal in itself, it's a travel hood and a tool. The goal is to improve the areas I just mentioned. There's one of us in the center. Efficiency has gradually become so strongly associated with orientation towards profitability that it is difficult to talk about it without being misunderstood. Effectiveness and modernisation are here, as in other areas, of course, nothing but a question of what is left of it. I would strongly oppose those who are now criticising such an old-fashioned view of modernisation that they believe it is about saving money. There has been a great deal of renewal and conversion in the public sector, but it has been written and distributed even more. We should soon be done with that. Modernisation must therefore not be influenced by symbolism and ad hoc grep. What we need now is overarching action – thinking about the long term. An idea that doesn't tolerate being formulated easily is a sign that it should be rejected, it's a wise man who has said. That the distribution to the Council of State Norman has the name «From word to action» is therefore an offensive – and simple – attitude to work. It's a commitment. We're committed. A vision, a vision of the future, gives hope of a situation from which a person, through political work, can control or control away from, says Ottar Brox, "What we don't want." Working with visions has not always had good conditions in our country. It might be a matter of lack of generosity and getting curious people compared to some of the big questions. Where do we want to go? I am happy the Council of State has taken hold of the visionary and linked it with concrete political action. Changing governments have, under various conditions, had simplification, modernisation, renewal and red tape on the programme. There have been many ‘undercurrencies’ to bring life to the obscurity: the professionalisation of leadership, goal and result management, efficiency, benchmarking and outsourcing appear to be some of the tenor stars. The contents of the good distribution are therefore in several ways a continuation of previously started work. Bondevik I presented a project catalogue of 105 actions for ‘Simplify Norway’. Simplification measures were aimed at individuals, businesses and municipalities. NHO President Leif Frode Onarheim then said that he ‘For the first time, a government sees this area as a priority to address problems in form fields and heavy red tape’. The statistics show that it is also being closed, but it was not passed on by the next government. When I hear the debate today, I can't quite free myself from the fact that things are taken in the worst sense when you say that Norman announces 'increased differences' between groups and districts. Where is the distribution? I thought they could answer as it says. They're not saying a single location. On the contrary, it is said to be equivalency. And just as it is when one says one is so afraid that one should take structural action that destroys the welfare community. Norman's state council has a verse from the revolution's voice on the front page of the statement. I am pleased that he has chosen that verse – it is not all I am equally happy to say so. It says here: ‘Nothing is more like the writing of the true promise of love.’ Olav H. Hauge says it this way: "Read Lu Chi and create a poem.He doesn't say how it should be.Many people had painted an oak earlier.However, Munch oak was painted." Maybe that's what it's all about, that the individual municipal politician, the individual team and the individual association are allowed to think for themselves and make an "eine oak" for service for us human beings?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e890	There is no time to ‘think for yourself’ or any other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e893	Let me begin by saying that it is not a little bold of the Council of State to use a verse by Rudolf Nilsen to mark the front page of a statement that, to those degrees, glorifies privatisation and tenders. I actually don't think that Rudolf Nilsen's heart was right there. I think he, like many of us, would have just invested in a strong public sector, which should be the security everyone should have in everyday life, regardless of the individual's financial ability. The Labour Party wants first of all to provide a better offer for the users, and not, as I understand the Council of State, primarily cheaper for the state. I allow myself to say that I like the bad tone of the Council's presentation. It lacks focus on everyday heroes. I will explain what I mean by ‘the everyday heroes’. Well, it's all those who work in the public sector, those who work in kindergartens, who take responsibility for the growing family and provide care and security for children, who unfortunately too many do not get at home. It's all those who care about the elderly and the sick, lifting heavily and running fast and almost every day going home with a bad conscience because they had to leave lonely nurturing to reach out to all those who are asking for help. Why is quality never asked? We constantly ask politicians questions about money, efficiency and reorganization. Will privatisation of services provide a better offer? Would everyday heroes be given better time for each user to pay for the services? In its statement, the Council of State states that government employees and special employees in the country have a typical life-time perspective. Yes, I ask: what's wrong with a user or patient/client meeting the same case handler he's met before in a social office? Has anyone here in the Chamber experienced having to tell his or her life story to several people once after a time because the first case manager has stopped or is in a meeting? No, continuity is not to be despised. In fact, it is not despised in the private sector either. I guess we all know about some private companies that honor their employees with a gold watch because they've been in the same job for over 25 years. When it is emphasised in the statement that ‘employment, pension and working conditions are changed with a view to reducing the differences between the private and public sectors’, I think it is wrong to take away the employees of the public sector from well-negotiated rights to equalise the public and private sectors. [[must]] Would it not be more correct for private sector employees to have the same rights and be lifted instead of removing the rights negotiated by organisations? For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is that the user is put in the centre and gets the service that each individual needs. That is why we want to put the search light on the working situation of those performing the service. Because if care professionals do not feel secure in the job, the quality of the services on which users depend may be affected. But then they get better services. The Labour Party would very much like to discuss how public services can become even better, but the Labour Party will not participate in a modernisation debate that leads to greater differences between people and districts. More private health services and schools mean that public health and school services are being weakened. Increased competition between municipalities could result in the loss of districts. We're actually a little bit anxious about this. The Labour Party believes that people have to stay and work where they want to. Services have to come to people – and not the other way around, that people have to move to the services. The working party is not against efficiency, but if efficiency means that the everyday heroes – the carers – will run faster and lift heavier, the Workers' Party will not be involved. We do not want to impose additional burdens on employees. The Labour Party believes that the main objective must be to improve the provision of services to the population without exacerbating the situation of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e916	Let me say to the last speaker that I am at least convinced that Rudolf Nilsen's heart was not in the Secretariat or in other central units. It has been said that this document is an ideological manifesto. At least it's not. This is a pragmatic approach to modernisation in the public sector, and I think it is gratifying to note how broad this is about large parts of what we are writing. It is natural that not everyone likes everything, but if we peel off the rhetoric – and there has been some rhetoric in this room today – I find that there is a broad consensus on the objectives, there is a broad consensus on important parts of the toolbox, and not least there is a very broad consensus that the main approach to modernisation must be delegation and decentralisation with greater freedom of action and responsibility for local units. If the representative Giske believes that it is an ideological manifesto, that it is a controversial ideology that we should decentralize, that we should encourage a variety of solutions that are developed locally, if he believes it is ideologically challenging to give individual employees the challenge of developing the public sector themselves and taking initiatives – yes, this is an ideological manifesto, and in that case it is a manifesto of which we are proud. In this context, I would also like to make it clear that in the discussion on equality or equivalency, we are trying to distinguish between the role that we as citizens have and the role that we have as users. As citizens, we are entitled to equal treatment, and there must be an absolute equality principle that applies. As users of public services, we are entitled to be taken seriously as 4.5 million different individuals. Then we have requirements for equivalence, but we need to adapt to our individual needs. And I think that if, in the modernisation of the public sector, we clearly distinguish between the public treatment of the inhabitants as citizens and the treatment of us as individual users, we will discover that very much of the rhetoric about equality versus equivalency is just a rail rhetoric. We are to be treated as individuals in one context and as citizens with demands for completely equal treatment in another context. Many of the comments made during the day indicate that this is a document for privatisation, outsourcing and market management. Now I'm not among those who think these words are shell words, so this is how I take that criticism with great calmness. But I want to make it clear that that's not what's in the statement. The point of the statement is that competitive outsourcing can be a very useful tool to have in the toolbox, that it can be very good to have a pragmatic approach to the division of labour between private and public actors, that markets can be good tools in some contexts – but at the same time, the main principle here is that for the main emphasis of public services, what happens in the municipal sector, municipalities are the ones to decide which tools are to be used. If you find in a municipality that they don’t want to compete, they don’t have any faith in the market, they have much better faith in a hard-working approach to municipal services – yes, it’s completely possible to choose it. There are no indications from us that they are going to put out competition, that they are going to use the market. The local authorities shall identify the solutions which they consider to be the most sensible. If it turns out that the solution in Sorum is better than the solution to the competition, I am actually willing to assess it against the results. And if in ten years' time we discover that the solution to hard work was better than the solution to the competition, I will personally try to meet each win – and also every defeat – with the same invulnerable smile. It has been said that the follow-up to this statement needs to be clarified. I will do that, but I want to make it clear that the statement should have a name, it should actually be «From our words to the actions of others». The follow-up – the concreteisation – does not come from the Ministry of Labour and Administration. It comes to the individual sectors where it's going to be done, and we've notified that something is being done in the school sector, something is being done in the employment, social security, social services sectors, and something is being done in the entire municipal sector. The relevant state councils will come back with proposals for the concrete follow-up. The specific follow-up is to be done in the municipalities, and then we can read about it in the paper – I'm sorry to say so. And then comes the concrete follow-up to a series of cross-sectoral projects, which Stortinget will be briefed on along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e935	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e938	I was a little uncertain about what we just witnessed – it was almost an abdication statement. I think the Minister for Change must have a slightly more offensive attitude than he should be in charge of the words, and others should be in charge of the action. Then I think it might slow down the conversion. A combination I think is the best. The presentation is not very specific, as it does not refer to the changes that have been made in the past. It may in itself be okay in such an overall review that it becomes the most wool. But wool shall spin thread, and cloth shall be woven. That's why it doesn't matter, so to speak, which wool is presented here. The most central phrase in the statement in my view is one that is on page 4 of the printed version: ‘An additional cost of public expenditure therefore costs much more than one krona, and the larger the public sector becomes, the higher the cost of making it grow even more.’ In other words, a public resource use distorts social resources in an unfavourable way. If you accept this premise – and Victor D. Norman has written articles earlier where he has suggested that it might cost 4-5 kroner to use one public crown – then the answer is privatisation. That's the logical consequence of that theory. The reasoning, however, does not last. It's not socio-economically substantiated in theory. It is not empirically substantiated either. If what Norman said in the statement was right, for example, a reduction of DKK 100 billion in public expenditure will result in an increase of DKK 400 to 500 billion in Norwegian GDP. Why, then, are the countries with the largest share — in Western economies — of the economy going through public budgets, which at the same time have the largest GDP per capita? population, low inflation, a profitable business and a good, well-developed welfare sector? Norway, Sweden and Denmark should, according to this theory, be among the countries that made it the worst economical. It's not a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e950	I am pleased to give the representative references to the great scientific literature on the so-called'marginal cost of public funds', but I don't think I'm going to use the Parliament's pulpit to teach the representative social economy. The important thing to be aware of is that there is a very big difference between whether having a public sector is an advantage for a country – and it is clear that it is an advantage that we have a large, well-functioning public sector – and whether an extra krone in public expenditure is financed by taxes, costs zero or one krone, or more. I believe that both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway can supplement the representative with information in this regard. As for the more general question, I have to say that I am concerned about the representative Giske's ability to read. It says in the introduction that we have to be aware that an additional crown in public expenditure costs a lot. It is also very clear in the statement that there are few areas, if any, where the value of better services is greater than in the case of public services. That's the basic problem we're facing. We spend a lot of resources in the public sector, and it costs a lot more. On the other hand, there are a few places where we need to do more. The solution to that dilemma is not privatisation. It would be that the public ran away from its responsibility, that we abdicated, that we said we should give up the broad commitment to the welfare state that we have in Norway. What is the solution to this dilemma is to make the public sector more efficient. There's no area where efficiency will throw more of itself, precisely because of this dilemma that we're talking about. So I would recommend the representative, Giske, to reread the whole introduction and try to understand what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e961	Of course, the Progress Party is pleased with the presentation by the Council of State. This is good progress party policy [[latter outbreak from the saddle]] But there'll be enough praise in this context. I can admit that we could probably think of a little more action than what appears in the statement. If the Council of State intends to get all trade unions involved before anything happens in concrete terms, and to get all the municipalities to join the team, I'm afraid we have to wait a very long time before we see results. And we don't have time to wait. The public sector is in poor condition, and therefore urgent so that we can get a better offer for older people, sick people, children and young people. We need a better use of each public crown, so that several users get the offer they are legally entitled to. It has to be done, and it has to be done now. Now the Council of State just said that he couldn't be concrete, but some perspectives in time must have the Council of State as well. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: When – and then I mean quite concretely in time – can we expect the first step to be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e972	If the Council of State has a wish to get out of the closet, now is the time!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e975	Governments are very well off in a value-conservative cabinet and have no desire to step out of this! It is very nice that the Progress Party is excited about too much of what is in the presentation. It shows that we can agree very much, even though we initially have a fundamentally different view of both the values and the purposes of the public sector. Let me also say – and that goes to the previous question too – that I have no aversion to taking responsibility for modernisation and making sure that it is progress, but very much of what is called action, unfortunately, has to come in areas other than what I am responsible for. I would very much like to be Minister of Education and Research as well as Minister of Labour and Administration, for that is what I had to do if I were to do something with the school. I'm afraid it must be the State Council Clement who has to do something with the school. Similarly, I would like to be a municipal minister, but we already have a municipal minister, so it's Erna Solberg who has to do something about it, etc. A great deal of the implementation that needs to be done is now being worked with the other sectoral departments. The results come continuously beyond this year and later years. But in the same way as it was not the Kosmo State Council that carried out the hospital reform or the quality reform in higher education, but rather some government councils that, as far as I remember, called Tønne and Giske, so it is not Norman who is to represent most of the concrete implementation of these programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e986	Is the President right when, under this notion, he has a desire to simplify the government structure? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e989	I can challenge the Council of State in one of those areas where he can actually show some action. Can he philosophize a little about the total cost principle, which is now being proposed, and which is a very exciting way of thinking, for example. in relation to Aetat, and in relation to providing the unemployed with skills and opportunities for work training? Five consecutive years, the Statistical Central Bureau has shown that this actually works. Can the Council of State philosophize a little? It will be exciting to see how this works, and how to calculate it – for example: The hourly price of an unemployed person compared to a Council of State? It might have been interesting to know. But the point here is: doesn't the Council of State think that this 'in the end' is more about political priorities and choices in relation to how we want to focus on different areas of society than about some type of calculation in which to count on the policy solution? We have it on the environmental side, too, and we're not opposed to it, but I actually believe that it's the will to take environmental risks or to be the leader is the tongue on the scale when you make the political choices. And then finally, the freedom of choice and the fact that the money follows the user is a principle that the Council of State stands for. I'm probably not as learned in social economy as the Council of State is, but I've read a little bit now. One of the prerequisites for such principles to function is that there is no market failure – and that there is overcapacity in the system. Then my question is, who is going to finance these hospitals that are going to be empty waiting for me to have a special wish? Or if I want my child in the nearest school because it's the best, and there's no room because all the other parents have also chosen it, who's going to sit with this overcapacity and pay for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e999	The President will recommend the representative to stay in Norway, especially when the Council of State is called Norman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1002	Thank you for that, but that name comes from England. On the question of user costs, which I think is very good, I just want to make it clear that what we're saying is that we want total cost calculations to be carried out, including user costs, to make the costs visible, to get the bill on the table. That doesn't mean that that's what's going to make a difference in every context, to put it like this. There is a demand for cost-benefit calculations on all road projects in Norway. It has actually not prevented the construction of a tunnel in Lærdal. The visibility of costs may not always have implications for the decisions taken. Regarding the question of whether the money should follow the users, about freedom of choice and some other things, I would like to clarify again what is in the statement. It is not stated that we should implement the principle that the money should follow the users. It does not say that we should implement the principle that there should be full freedom of choice. It says we must have greater freedom of choice. It says that we should have greater use of schemes where the money follows the users, and that is equivalent wording. This is a little bit important, because it has to do with direction versus how far you're going. What we're saying is, it's time we scratched out of the ditch that the users don't have freedom of choice and that the money doesn't follow the users. But we have not said that we should fall into the ditch on the other side. Let's stay on the road, and then we can discuss how wide or narrow it is, but at first we say there are several areas where we think it's decent that the money follows the users. There are some areas where it's not appropriate, where the problems are so complex that we have to have other arrangements. The introduction of freedom of choice in more areas than it is today does not mean that freedom of choice must be granted in all areas at all. Last point: who will make sure that there is capacity in the places where people want to choose? The answer is that it is exactly the same who make sure that there is capacity in the bread shops that has the best bread. Those who do a good job in an arrangement where the money follows the users will receive so much income that they can expand the capacity. The system actually works in other parts of society. There is no reason to believe that leaders of released public entities will be somewhat less good at adapting capacity than in other parts of society where the main principle is that the money follows users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1013	An in-depth study is needed as there are several schemes in place where the money follows the user. It's in a context. It's said that it's like a phase of greater competition between public authorities and between public and private. It is also said in a context where there are more private provision in health and education. Let it be said: the centre wants a more dignified care for the elderly, better quality in school and a strengthened childcare facility. We want it in the whole country where this offer is not good enough today. We are incessantly committed to strengthening the voluntary sector and their ability to provide valuable supplements. But who is it, when it comes to the matter, this freedom of choice that the Council of State is talking about, should actually be in force? He also says that the municipalities have a choice. Let's then take a municipality that today has a geography that makes the crossroads important to keep young people safe in its own community, that small hospitals are important to ensure where the option of exploiting economies of scale is decommissioning. Do you have any municipalities that wouldn't follow the user's money? Would it not be so that the result is that there are too few means to keep these schools going? Solberg County Council already has less money for the smaller municipalities. What about the large municipalities? If someone is going to withdraw their elephants from school, if someone is going to move on to a private offer in the health care sector, what is left of the freedom of choice for those municipalities to maintain a good public offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1020	I'm glad to get this opportunity to clarify a very important point right in relation to the relationship with the local government sector. What we're saying is that there should be increased use of freedom of choice, more indications that the money follows the users, applies to the state, where our principle is delegation. When it comes to the municipal sector, we say that we want to decentralize responsibility and authority. This means that we do not want to be the ones who decide which arrangements the municipalities should implement. We do not intend to take the lead that the municipalities should put in place schemes where the money follows the users. We think it's a good idea to try it, but we think the municipalities should decide for themselves. In concrete terms, what I think will happen in a lot of contexts is that some smaller municipalities, in cooperation with neighbouring municipalities, would say that now we can imagine introducing a scheme where maybe parents in small circles, in particular, rather than getting one school offer, could be allowed to get school offers in the neighbouring municipality if that school is closest, based on a principle that the money follows the user. This is generally the case in the municipal sector. Those of us, and fortunately both the representative Kleppa and I, who believe that not all solutions are to create terribly large units, those of us who believe in a variety of municipal sizes and a variety of solutions, must at the same time be open to us finding some unconventional ways to solve the service provision in small municipalities. Solutions that involve more competition between municipalities, greater freedom of choice for residents to choose the offer in the neighbouring municipality and schemes that support it, I think are means that even small municipalities can be able to claim well in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1025	First, I want to be allowed to apologize for the fact that I laughed a little inappropriately – this to prevent the Prime Minister from writing me a new letter. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1030	If it doesn't get worse than that, we can live with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1033	Thank you, President. In my article I suggested that it is important that employees have safe working conditions. There may well be people who react to the fact that the search light is precisely directed at the situation of employees. But does the Council of State see that it is important that those who work in what I call comfort and support professions have security in their situation in order to provide even better service to users? So a little bit to this with the flow and the cancellation protection, which is also mentioned in the statement. That's how many people need help. Those who live at home need often meet a lot of home helpers. Does the Council of State see that this could be a problem if one goes to the degrees of protection against dismissal and thus increases the possibility of more people becoming the ones who provide help? So finally, can the Council of State guarantee that the self-payment does not increase for the individual user with the new scheme? Or is it that the Council of State will increase the financial burden on municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1044	Just as little as guarantees have been given under employee party governments that user payments will not increase, I will give some guarantees about what will happen to self-interests and other forms of user payments in the years to come. With regard to the question of the relationship with the employees, as we say in the statement, it is quite clear that the employees are a resource. Almost the entire competence with which we are to develop the public sector is in the minds and hands of individual employees. And we have to motivate them. We have to let them go. We have to give them the challenge of getting involved in shaping a better offer. This means that we also need to take employee organisations very seriously on board and bring them into negotiations. That is what we want. We've invited you to do that. But what we are saying must be a clear premise for negotiations related to public employees is what has been the long tradition of Norwegian trade union movement, which means that Norway and Sweden have done so much better than many other countries, namely that we have had organisations that have said that we should be on the rights of employees, but we must always give priority to efficiency and conversion. All organisations that are willing to discuss with us with the starting point that you're too efficient and you're going to have a very good dialogue with, and then I think it's going to go well. Then we have said that in this dialogue it is important that we look at all aspects of pay, employment, employment and pension conditions. Let me say it in a slightly different way: «The public sector must be able to compete effectively for the labour force. The potential to reward innovation and creativity needs to be better exploited. The State's pay and negotiation system should therefore be reviewed». I think that's very well said. It's a quote from the long-term Stoltenberg government program.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1058	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1063	Already three months after the accession of the new government, the Stortinget has today the opportunity to discuss the most promising, offensive and revolutionary plans for the modernisation, efficiency and renewal of the public sector that some government councils have ever presented. Where former Kosmo State Council took the bet and the land on the ball, Norman has just begun on a jump that so far draws to end up far down the hill. If County Council Norman were to be able to implement half of what he's been doing, it would also involve a revolution in how the public sector works and works. The actual implementation of the hover in the jump and the quality of the impact will determine which styles will ultimately be achieved by the Council of State. However, this promises very well, and I really look forward to the continuation. The resistance, sewing and complaining of these plans and visions were very predictable. For the regulatory parties, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, this appears to be dangerous and threatening plans on a number of points, because this will reduce the ability of these parties to interfere in people's everyday lives, the extent to which decisions and organisation are left to users and employees themselves: each school should gain more power and take more responsibility, users should have a place to address, and authority delegated to local bodies. We want to show trust to the employees and local democracy. That is exactly why it was very interesting that the new director of the local central association of municipalities – the municipality of Norway – Olav Ulleren, former central party politician, mentioned Norman's plans in very commendable terms. The fact that the Nations also followed up in the leadership position the other day should be a serious crossroads of thought for the museum guards in the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1072	Conversion in the public sector should aim to streamline and simplify state and municipal activities. This had been planned by the Stoltenberg government with smoking and changes in municipalities, the state and state enterprises without people being cancelled or losing their rights. On the contrary, more public employees, especially in the provision of services, were considered. Now, the Bondevik government says that the same, or perhaps more correctly, fewer than the 700,000 public employees, have to provide even more and jump even faster. Everyone asked posts says there is a need for more employees, and we know that we need more employees in the public sector in the provision of services. But now it has to be solved with privatisation and outsourced competition. At the same time, pay and pension schemes shall be amended and the protection against dismissals reduced. In my view, this is simply a discrimination against women. We know that today there are six out of ten dismissals in the state that hit women, and 90 pst. of those who receive a waiting wage, women are over 50 years of age. We know where in our working life we have most women, and when the council talks about accepting less secure jobs in public, there are again women who are the losers. Is it right, then, to deprive them of their acquired rights? I understand that the Council of State must say that this is not a social democratic reform; there will be enough public servants to discover it. How will the Council of State explain that this provides motivation and better services? I am very pleased that the Bondevik II government is following up the work of the Stoltenberg government to move jobs out of Oslo. But the Council of State makes it clear that this is not for district purposes. Do you believe what the Christian People's Party believes about such statements? The Stoltenberg government had a major aim of moving jobs out of Oslo, yes, in fact the exceptions to not relocating jobs had to be justified specifically. I hope that the Bondevik government will also follow that principle. I'm afraid the districts will be the losers in the welfare fight. When we then know that state transfers to municipal food funds and the shipping subsidies on petrol and diesel have been removed, while we have huge reductions in the SND funds, I see it through this statement that the Government will work to reduce the number of municipalities and even greater centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1082	‘Minister of Labour and Administration Victor D. Norman’s vision for the public sector is going to get wise’, writes Today’s Business on 25 January this year. I understand. The approach of the cooperative management to the modernisation debate is: from word to action. It is also understandable when you see what came from the Stoltenberg government: a modernisation project that was: from empty words to beautiful promises. Modernisation, efficiency and simplification in the public sector have one objective, namely better services for users. After following the debate today, I think it's in place to mention it one more time. Our modernisation reforms give individual schools more power and responsibility for social security, work and social services users one place to contact the common labour market between the public and private sectors, giving more delegation of powers to local bodies to public regulations a sunset principle allowing them to choose different combinations of public and private solutions within the pension system This is precisely because services need to be better, simpler and more adapted to the individual user. The paradox is that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are defending today's system, a system that makes it only the strong people who can buy out of health cows and choose private supplements. It's the opposite of what the Right and the rest of the Cooperation Government wants. We want everyone to be able to participate in private and public solutions, where they choose what is best for the individual. Oddvard Nilsen said it quite well: it is a system of ‘equality’ as a goal, and discharge as a result’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1116	I would like to take from the Council of State's concern about the lack of heads and hands, which I have done before here today. He states in his statement that it is this deficiency ‘which is the real limitation of public service provision’. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. The main challenge for the public sector is recruitment. Young people today do not choose typical women's girls, because they have low pay, low status, high sick leave, high work pressure and high wear and tear. The Labour Inspectorate was in several hospitals last year and concluded that the basic staff was too poor. This results in a high level of sick leave and a high number of unsatisfied persons. Around the municipality of Norway, there is now widespread use of job breaks that do not provide social security rights, and this provides a qualitatively poor service, because users have to deal with a large number of employees. The high level of sick leave and the manning crisis mean that municipalities and counties are now increasingly using expensive temporary employment solutions that serve public services. Private temporary employment agencies now have a lucrative public sector market. An unaccompanied nurse's position, for example: costs between 80 000 and 100000 kroner more than a fixed position. These are the funds that should have been used in the provision of services. There are still large differences between women and men in pay levels. Where the women's share is high, the pay is bad. In its statement, the Council of State states that it is particularly important that we achieve harmonisation of pay conditions in order to reduce differences between the private and public sectors, and that this must be negotiated with employees and their organisations. Norway’s Employers’ Association for Public Relations, NATO, in its consultation opinion on changes to the Equality Act, which is to be dealt with in the United Kingdom in April, states that it is not equal pay but market value that is an important parameter for determining wages and salaries. This is completely across what the Council of State says. Several employers’ associations are negative to equal pay, although this is across the EU Court of Justice. The main challenges are more heads and hands, good pay and working conditions, recruitment to the services we want to provide, and the quality of the services we provide. Competitive outsourcing, impaired protection against dismissal and poorer pension conditions in the public sector are not the way to improve the quality of the public sector. I believe that the SV's proposal for equal pay in this year's wage-fixing and better pay and working conditions is a much better and much more offensive instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1127	The representative Martin Engeset called the presentation revolutionary. It reminded me of the Indian who, having lived in Norway for a few months, said he had a new understanding of the word ‘crisis’. Over the last few years, one dimension of the debate on the public sector has disappeared from the political change of words, namely how far the responsibility of municipalities, county councils and the state to secure welfare services should go. There seems no longer to be any political disagreement about the responsibility for everyone having the same right and access to the basic welfare services. It's a responsibility for the community. And that's a victory for the line the Workers' Party has stood for. The political debate is now much more closely linked to financial instruments, organisation and the extent to which private suppliers can and should be used in areas such as health and care. For this reason, the presentation by the Minister of Administration is of particular interest in two areas. It is stated in the statement: ‘The seriousness of the responsibilities assumed by the public and the socio-economic costs of public resource use indicate a review and clarification of the limits of public responsibility.’;» It's a right melody that's to recognize. However, the clarification of these limits is not urgent in the presentation nor in this debate. It might be interesting to know when and how the Council of State intends to follow this up and in which welfare areas such a demarcation should be set. Is it in health, education, care or social services? The other area is wanted to open up larger private offerings, including: in the health and education sectors. Connected to the desire for greater competition between businesses as a tool to promote quality and development of service provision, this should also be the subject of a debate on resource use. In other areas of society with strong competition for customers, there is also a far greater supply than we need overall. This overcapacity also has a socio-economic cost that needs to be included in the assessments, or in the total cost calculations, that the Government will introduce into the public sector in order to get the most out of each krona. How are we going to create a similar dynamic in areas where there is a shortage of professionals and skills? How are we to combine quality-enhancing competition in health care and care for the elderly while ensuring that it is the needs and not the ability to pay that ensure a good offer for all of us? How, in such a system, are we to ensure the best possible use of scarce resources, which in today's Norway is not money, but competence and people? These are important issues. If the government has given up an old Right-Feasant that those who can pay for themselves will have the opportunity to secure more and better services, then it's joyous, but then the issues I just mentioned are a very important part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1147	If Victor D. Norman had submitted this statement as a student at the Norwegian School of Commerce, he would probably have got the top score 9 for vision, but hardly for content – of course, unless he fixed the task himself. I'll say why. A very good principle is used in this statement, namely total cost calculations. That's great. One shall consider, not in isolation, the expenditure on public budgets, but also the costs, where appropriate the revenue, of individuals or society as a whole. The simplest example is, for example: the costs of non-maintenance in the Municipality of Oslo. If they had been set up for the costs of maintenance, there would have been much more money spent on public maintenance. Had a view of the total cost of the municipality of Oslo setting up the rentals on municipal dwellings in order to obtain more state housing support, but at the same time would have to throw out tenants who would then have to take in the shelters, which cost a lot, much more, a spent more public money on public housing. Take the government's own example of school centralization. The costs for children, teachers and parents in terms of time and transport must be included in the assessment when decisions are taken. But with all due respect, the few local authorities today are centralizing schools because it is tricked into a total cost assessment. On the contrary, they do so because they lack operational resources, because in Norway the government parties, together with the Progress Party, do not give so much money to the public sector. They have less faith in the municipal spending of money than they have in the power that the government wants to transmit through this message. As economist Norman knows, the transfer of money is the transfer of power. That's why I think, if this can be a break to convince the Right People that it's a good idea to transfer more money to the municipalities, that this statement has a mission. Another thing that I think is very important in relation to this with the total cost principle is that it must also apply in cases where private individuals compete with public authorities for tenders. Today, for example. so that a private provider of asylum recipients does not count on all the costs incurred by the municipality when submitting its tender to the UDI because the municipality is responsible for health services. The council must have one thing, and that's that he has the youth overcoming when he takes the words of Nordahl Grieg in his mouth. Grieg would hardly – and never – make Norman's words his.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1162	The President must correct a manifest misunderstanding: this is about Rudolf Nilsen. The President will also allow himself to note that, to the best of his knowledge, it is only in the discipline of art that separate characters are given for content and execution. The President assumes that the representative Holmås, based on the knowledge of where the Norwegian School of Commerce is located, will know that this is an exercise the climate rarely gives rise to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1167	Earlier today, the representative Gitmark was up in the pulpit and said that the Workers’ Party ‘defenses today’s system’. If the representative of Gitmark has not misunderstood, it must be because he is new here in the house, or that he has direct misleading statements. It was Stoltenberg, as everyone knows, who took the initiative to modernise the public sector. The difference between the Stoltenberg government and the current government is that this government says that it is more expensive to use labour in the public sector than in the private sector. One krone used in the public sector, has a higher cost than one krone, says the Council of State. It might be interesting to know how many unknown factors the government then uses in its calculation. After reading the statement, I find reason to ask: does the Council of State see that costs can also be counted in human values? That's what the Council of State is talking about. It seems that the care sector is going to be a store, and therefore it needs to be saved in the public sector. State councils have used Kristiansand in the media as an example of how it should be done – the municipality that has elderly uprisings, poor schools and poor finances, but that has, after all, been able to cope with less transfers if one compares with services and other municipalities. I'm afraid that this play is a starting point for social dumping of Velferds-Norway. At the same time, the Government has notified impairments in government employee pension schemes, impairment of employment protection rules in the Work Environment Act and deterioration of working time rules. One simply has to reorganise the public sector. One shall drive the Norwegian society forward as a store, where REMA and RIMI tanks shall be in the driver’s seat. I am calling for the Government's motivation to respect the rights and interests of employees in the work to be done now, but I do not expect that initiative. Instead of defending the government's policy, the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party should actually get freezes down his back when he gets hallelujar up from the Progress Party. I fear that instead of Hallelujah this will soon end up in a Sodom and Gomorrah.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1176	For its part, the President will assume that the Christian People's Party is inclined to show enthusiasm for hallelujarop wherever they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1179	Here comes an article from one of those who shouts excitedly. The need for modernisation in the public sector is obvious to many of its inhabitants. The need to improve the efficiency of the public sector has been exacerbated by the urgent need for many citizens of the country. The need for simplification in the public sector is too much of the country's population provocative. Over the years, many of the citizens of the country who have gathered around a clear demand for modernisation, efficiency and simplification in the public sector have, for 25 years, trusted the Progress Party – the interest and focus of other political parties has been partly undetectable, partly present to a limited extent and with limited involvement. What we are now being presented is good progress party policy – policies for which the Progress Party has been an avid voice party, and policies for which the Progress Party has often been a lonely voice party. For too long, the public sector has been a monopoly sector in which both the order and the supplier have been public. For too long, the public sector has been spared critical demands for just modernisation, efficiency and simplification. Norway has a large public sector. In too many cases, in fact, the use of resources is not very high compared to the results. The hospital sector is one of many examples: we spend a lot of money and have long waiting lists. Other countries use relatively less, and there the population hardly knows what waiting lists are. Overall, this statement is described as: From word to action. The Progress Party welcomes the presentation. It comes in our opinion overtime; this important work was to be carried out a long time ago. The party of progress looks forward to follow-up by the Government, which shows that words actually become action. The Progress Party underlines that there is just action to be taken, action to demonstrate both legislative changes and in principle clean-up in what should be the task of the State and how such tasks can be carried out in the best possible way for the inhabitants. And for the Advancement Party, this is the most important thing. Of course, for the Progress Party, it is not an objective that we should have a large, heavy and powerful public sector, but that we should have good services for the nation's population, and that as a nation we manage and use public money in a way that is good for the inhabitants, and that the public also emphasises service and quality. Good governance and good services require that our large public sector now needs to get out of sleep and be renewed through modernisation, efficiency and simplification. We are now eagerly waiting for the action and can promise active support for good actions for the benefit of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1200	This debate has made it clear that there are a number of things there is a broad consensus about in the Stortinget. We agree that one of the main objectives of the transitions we are going to do is to get a good and equivalent offer to the users. We agree that it is important to use resources in the public sector in a good enough way. That is why this is a little bit influenced by a shadow boxing, because the concrete, new measures are not described. What's concrete is basically what's started in the past, and of course the Workers' Party is also fully committed to because we've started it to a large extent. This applies to both the sectors being reformed, such as the health sector or the education sector, and also to many of the instruments used with greater freedom and responsibility locally, service offices, electronic management, simplified legislation, etc. That's why it might be a little bit more ideological that becomes the issue of conflict, and also what becomes most interesting to debate while we wait for the concrete reforms to come to the table. Now several speakers from the Right have taken up my reading skills. I understand that not being able to read means not agreeing with what the Right says. It makes me a little worried about the intensive reading exercise that is now going to be conducted in primary school in the future, but I hope that's not what's going to be the guide. State Council Norman uses it to bake and sell bread as an example that the best bread bakers get most customers and expand their business. Yes, now it's the same in private business that, first of all, those who are most popular – at least my breadmaker gets it – are sold out very early, one comes and is going to buy bread, and there's no more. Of course, you can't do school or health care; you have to make sure that the offer is there when you need it. Another point in private business is that the best goods are often so expensive that some of Norway’s population cannot afford to buy them. Nor can we have it in terms of education, health and care. Therefore, there are some significant differences in the public service provision of basic welfare goods and the private business that need to be considered when renewing the public sector. If that's what the State Council Norman says in his statement, that an extra krona used in the public sector has efficiency effects in the economy of perhaps up to four to five kronor, then it has to be that Norway, which has used many more extra kronor than some other countries, has to be one of the countries with the worst economy. But the fact is that Norway, Sweden and Denmark, which have economies where a very large part of the economy goes through public budgets, not for public consumption, but for public redistribution, are actually some of the world's strongest economies. So the empire does not speak to the benefit of Norman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1211	The Progress Party has expressed its sympathy and support for the presentation in different contexts, and also here today. But when State Council Norman in a reply to the Advancement Party earlier today says that he does not see that the Advancement Party and the Right have the same goal, and that they do not share the same view of value, then I become a little worried. Is it so that the Government now has objectives that have not been revealed by the presentation? The aim of the Progress Party is clear: it is an efficient, rational public sector that must ensure and deliver quality of good services to all citizens of this country regardless of the municipality in which one might live, and not the case today. And if the government and government council Norman don't have the same goal, I'd like to have the views of the government and the government on it. And also in terms of value-seeing: I can't see that it is possible to have any other value-seeking in the public sector than that we guarantee good services to the elderly, the sick and those who are entitled to school. At least that's our vision. If the government has a different view, I'd like an answer to that from the government council Norman. I also hear again, particularly from the representative Giske, and also from representatives of the Socialist Left Party, that the worst thing must be that the Progress Party now has more influence on the public sector. Then I will refer to the nations today, where the title is «The Battle of Difference Norway», and it says: ‘Increased social differences. A tougher society. District policy in the past. Such keywords now characterise Norway at the turn of the millennium.’ And on the other hand, ‘Difference Norway is opposite the sum of a number of conscious choices.’ Well, all of these choices have been made. And who has taken them? Well, they're the ones who've been in government, and that's what the Chinese and the Workers' Party have been doing for ten years. What the nation here is saying is that the Workers' Party has led the country and the districts into a mess, so that we now want a new course. I can't see that neither the Socialist Left Party nor the Workers' Party have any concrete proposals that Norway is changing its course towards what District Norway wants, namely a society in which everyone is given services that they are entitled to, unlike the Workers' Party, to provide different services depending on where you live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1229	Just to clarify a few things right away: when I talked about differences in goals and values between the Right Party and the Advance Party, there was no specific modernisation, but was related to a question of whether I am a 'cup-fr-s'. I'm not. And then the second: I'm a little disappointed that the president in connection with the representative Holmås' reply did not point out that at Norway's School of Business you have no students, but students. That's what they say. Of the more substantive: there are two things I want to comment on that has been up in the debate several times, and also have come up as suggestions. One is the question of the relocation of state institutions, whether it should only be anchored in purely efficiency considerations, or whether regional policy considerations should also be addressed. What is stated in the statement, and as we have said, is that with regard to the location of supervisory authorities, the heavy arguments for deportation are purely prudential. And that's what we're talking about. But it also states that in the case of other state institutions, we are also on the move for regional policy reasons. In this respect, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the proposal made by the representative, Mr Enoxen, to ask the Government to submit a plan. I don't think it makes sense that it is already done in the context of the revised national budget, but in the case of example. supervision, we have announced that there will be a case for the Storting in 2002. The other thing I would like to comment a little bit is this with working conditions for government employees. Here is a proposal from Karin Andersen: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure the ability of the public sector to recruit and maintain labour through equal pay and an offensive wage and employer policy.’ Personally, I have no problems with this proposal. We need a more offensive wage and employer policy in the public sector. I think it's a proposal that might be a good reason to look into the issue of the design of a new personnel policy. In this respect, I would just like to clarify very clearly: we have not arranged for public sector employees to lose their rights or for public sector employees to have a lower overall supply of labour, wages, employment and pension conditions than they currently have. But what we have said is that we believe that the whole package of employment, pay and pension conditions needs to be adapted to the reality that the public sector will face in the future. Then we need a review of the whole system. To put it this way, I don't think public servants, for example. have been served by provisions on a waiting pay scheme which allows people to be parked on waiting pay for up to 17 years. I don't think the individual employee has earned that, and I don't think the public sector has earned that either. Here we have to have a complete review. And let me -- to help the representative Holmås -- quote Nordahl Grieg. I think the employees and their organisations should go into this discussion during the slogan, «Go against the unknown, dissuade that answer».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1250	The president chose to use the word ‘students’ about the students at the Norwegian School of Business in the best possible sense and assumed that the representative Holmås thought was to suggest that you learn as long as you have students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1253	All Norwegian citizens come in contact with the public sector. It's big. And a lot of people get help and care. It's true that there's a lot of everyday heroes out there. But many – too many, I thought – have a tough meeting with the public sector. And it upsets the perpetrator to meet a stiff-legged, regular bureaucracy, either municipal or one of our ‘vesena’. I feel that most things have been said in this debate. But a everyday example, I still want to do it, and it's not unique. I have a friend. He has six children between the ages of 4 and 22, owning a garden and running a forest. Only two guards were left in that municipality. My friend had financial difficulties and wanted to sell the old house to get on her legs. The government said no; on a garden there would be two storeys. To fix it, he wanted to build a new house. The oldest child would take up a loan if he could build on his favorite site. No, it was for an incomprehensible reason. Then my friend wanted to sell some plots. The market was big, and mark out as well. No, then he had to pay the entire control plan. My friend was near bankruptcy. Result: bankruptcy, the woman has left him, the children are unhappy, the society has got two self-supporters, and it's just that a garden is driven in that municipality. This is ‘molbo’. We need a simpler Norway – a modernisation of public services. And we really need a law of sunset. It is very important that we now close to simplifying and modernising the public sector. Users should no longer experience being sent as wasteballs from office to office. Instead of A4, select individual customisation and efficient resource use – for the benefit of users and the total economy. And municipalities should be given greater responsibility and power to adapt schools, kindergartens, home help and technical services – ‘you name it’ – what is best for the network of the municipality it is in. State institutions must be moved out. The Christian People's Party thought this was smart. Inner Hardanger doesn't need and doesn't want the same code and the same "conditions" as one in Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1269	I don't want the statements of the KS director to be suspended in the air as an example of unsemite inside the Center Party, as they have been used today. Let me stress that from the Center Party's side, we want to give the municipalities greater trust. We want there to be a bigger room for local solutions. We have noticed that the KS-director has not yet said so much about the consistency between the tasks and resources in the municipal sector. We expect him to come back to this. The centre game should also be a good player to ensure greater consistency between the tasks that are expected to be solved by the municipalities and the resources available. Per. We didn't think the Government was following this well enough. It has been strange to listen to the Christian People's Party and the Left's behavior here today. The Christian People's Party's chief spokesman could not answer questions about the relationship with the county council, why the council had not named the county council in its distribution. He referred to a government council that did not provide any clarification in relation to a popular, regional level as a framework for important services across municipalities, whether we are talking about continuing schooling, culture or regional development. And then the parliamentary leader of the Left Party blames for the position when it involves voluntary involvement as a complement to public services. So it's a party that's been together with the Center Party to present a big message that has the title "Care 2000". I personally know it well, because I was responsible for it. It has a chapter on voluntary engagement with the Church's Bymission, the Salvation Army, the Gospel Center, etc. And let's be clear: the center part has not changed its position. On the contrary, we have committed ourselves to providing an important supplement to the voluntary sector with its experience. But what I don't understand is this strong commitment from the Left's side for international companies to come in and compete with the municipalities in areas where we think the municipalities themselves should have full responsibility. So at the end of the state council when it comes to this warning that the money is going to follow the user: is it that he has now withdrawn something from the way this has been perceived when it concerns the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1282	After the intervention of the Council of State, the debate became even more interesting than it was before the intervention of the Council of State. An example that the Council of State used where cost-benefit assessments have been carried out, but where no decision was prevented, was the construction of a tunnel to Lærdal. There, cost-benefit assessments were carried out, but this did not prevent the type of decision that resulted in tunnel construction in an area where cost-benefit assessments may not have been positive. And then I want to go back to the article that Vice-Chancellor Norman wrote in ‘Horizon’, where it's just the kind of decision that Vice-Chancellor Norman thinks will disappear in a more market-based system, where decisions are to be taken by the political bodies. My first question to the Council of State will be: does the Council of State stand firm on the assessments he makes in this article in relation to the consequences of the suspension of competitive outsourcing and privatisation, i.e. what is described and that is parallel to what is in this statement a bit on the way? That's the first question that it would be interesting to get clarity on. The second is that when the Council of State says that the money should follow the user in a number of areas – in terms of state areas, not municipal areas, where the municipalities themselves will decide this – I could imagine getting some examples of areas where the Council of State believes that this scheme can be extended to areas where the money is to be more closely followed by the user, and areas where it is not appropriate to do so. It is a highly relevant question. So to a theme that the representative Lånke could not explain to a visible degree, namely the future of the county municipality as a regional level of government, which is not mentioned in one word in the statement. Is it an accident at work that until those degrees have been ignored, we actually have three levels of government, which we have made big decisions that we should have? So to the last question, which is really also related to this, the money is going to follow the user. I have great respect for local self-government, and at the risk of contradicting my principles that we should go very far, some municipalities might actually decide that the money should follow the user. Let's do Oslo as an example. The government has opened up larger sections of private schools, the municipality decides whether the money should follow the user, and those who have a certain deposit of their own money in addition to those you get from the municipality to send their children to a good Montessori school will get a good school. But how will the Government ensure that the Municipality of Oslo is actually able to ensure a good public school for those who cannot afford to co-finance their own money?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1301	The next speaker is State Council – former Vice-Chancellor – Victor D. Norman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1304	First of all, I just want to make it clear that the principals of the Norwegian School of Commerce do not have professional opinions. But Professor Victor D. Norman wrote an article that was certainly very interesting, and where there were very many exciting things, but that does not oblige governments that this person had to end up in later. I have explained the Government's view of modernisation in the public sector. The government is standing by everything in the account. When Professor Victor D. Norman is finished as a state councillor, of course, he knows everything he's written. But we're now talking about what's presented as a teamwork from the Government, and that's what we're discussing here now. I actually asked for the word in connection with another matter. It was to clarify my opinion on the proposal from Karin Andersen. I think it's an excellent proposal, but then I assume that the word 'equal pay' is about equal pay between men and women, and not about a more general principle of equal pay – just so it's said. And if there are any ambiguities here, I think it speaks for the proposal to be submitted to the Government and not dealt with in the Chamber. Let me also record two other things. One is the question of why the county is not mentioned. It's mentioned. Everything about the municipalities applies to both the primary and county municipalities – done with it. The government's view of the county is known. The representative of Enoxsen may also find out that Professor Norman and others have previously had different views on the county council than the government's view, but the government's view of the county council is clear and evident from the Sem declaration. The representative, Mr Enoxen, also asked for examples of ways in which money could accompany users in the provision of public services. I think a very good example, which we are now working on, is money related to qualification measures in the labour market. There is no reason for it to be tied up to one service provider. As stated in the statement, we are interested in doing more in this qualification work, and I think jobseekers can often get a better offer if there are more players who are allowed to compete for the opportunity to work with the qualification of people for life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1327	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1342	On 15 November 2001, representatives Trond Giske and Vidar Bjørnstad presented a Document No. 8-proposal for the creation of a national knowledge base. The reason for the proposal was that the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, on 22 June 2001, launched a tender procedure for a two-year probationary system in which the State was to acquire access to a larger knowledge base for the library and education sectors. The tenders were evaluated by an evaluation committee chaired by Professor Jon Bing. After an overall assessment, the contracting State concluded that one would not proceed with any of the tenders in question. The reasons for this are given in letters from the Department to the Church, Education and Research Committee dated 30 November. The letter is attached to the matter, and I will not elaborate on this further. At the same time as the rejection, which was announced to tenderers on 8 November, mentioned in the Government's addition to the 2002 State Budget, the Council of State made it clear that one would continue to work to establish national knowledge bases in close and active dialogue with the tenderers and any other actors. As can be seen from the Ministry’s letter, a wide-ranging meeting has also been organised between the departments concerned and private and public institutions and individuals where current issues have been discussed in relation to the case. This meeting was held on 18 December. The Committee broadly agrees that the establishment of digital national knowledge bases is important in order to ensure our common knowledge and cultural heritage, and that this is about preserving our common national memory. Knowledge bases are not new, but new techniques make other forms of availability necessary. In a modern society, a diversity of sources of knowledge is best served. It would therefore be right to talk about knowledge bases, not just one base, and with today's technology, it must be a public task to facilitate the optimal availability and exploitation of the knowledge sources and bases. The majority of the Committee – all except the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen – point to the need for knowledge bases and the need for national knowledge bases to be as broad and deep as possible and to be able to extend over time. The Committee outlines in its configuration how this can be built up by many bases linked to a common entry portal. The role of the State in this, such as: may be the establishment of an entry portal, the Committee considers that it is best to be provided by a body governed, for example, by the National Library or by another appropriate institution. I also refer to the majority comments of the Committee. In the Committee's work, it has been important to highlight the importance of this work being carried out. It is important that knowledge bases are digitised, maintained and further developed. Furthermore, it is important that a system of making knowledge bases available to the public, in particular to schools and libraries, is rapidly established. The Committee therefore considers that work on the establishment of national knowledge bases, including: negotiating agreements with rightholders on the rights of use of the bases of public institutions must be a priority task which must be carried out within a relatively short time frame. The Committee also points out that the information base of the Great Norwegian Lexicon is no longer maintained or further developed. This fact also makes it necessary to give priority to work. The Committee uses the term ‘relatively short time frame’ without any time being specified. It is therefore necessary to stress the importance of a high priority for this case. The Committee therefore also asks the Ministry to return to the Stortinget with the matter in its own notice or by other appropriate means. The minority in the Committee – the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen – have an alternative proposal, which I believe they themselves will justify. Finally, a little bit about the Right attitude. For our part, we would like to stress the importance of giving this matter a high priority, and that the work continues in line with the department's own progress plan and in line with the leaders in the position. From the Right, we are very pleased that we are now talking about national knowledge bases and not just one national knowledge base. This gives greater scope to the matter, while making the role of the state clearer and clearer. For the Right, it is important to ensure easy and quick access to knowledge bases for public institutions such as schools and libraries, as well as for individuals. The scheme currently outlined could ensure this. From the Right we have great faith that the Council of State will ensure the necessary and rapid progress in the matter in line with the leaders in the position. Finally, I would like to commend the Committee on Construction and the willingness to come up with common wording and common positions. It is very gratifying that such a broad majority is united on the position, and I would recommend with this the position as it exists from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1375	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the statement on the position of the committee majority and also for his positive contribution to the work on the setting. As co-rapporteur for Document No. 8:23 I believe that we have achieved a good result, where we have both lifted our eyes on the original proposal and tightened our time perspective in relation to the need for active action. And there has been a necessary review by the Committee to provide clearer guidance for the follow-up of the Government in this area. In the Council's assessment of the draft document, I got the impression of a somewhat passive attitude, which ended with broader assessments without a time frame. The most important thing was to point out the danger of public costs and problems with the role of the State. The matter was – I think – more or less parked in the investigation panels. I'm glad that the government parties here in the hall have gone a step further, because the setting has obviously greater ambitions. I would particularly like to highlight four main points: firstly, that national knowledge bases are important to ensure our common knowledge and cultural heritage; secondly, that they are important to the future knowledge society; thirdly, that the State and the Government have a responsibility and an active position to establish national knowledge bases; and fourthly, that access to these knowledge sources must be ensured for example. schools and libraries with the necessary financial responsibilities. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's statement on the majority voting. The background for our document proposal was related to the development of a national knowledge base based on existing lexicon bases. An important consideration is to make common sources of knowledge available to all, among others. the education sector. The majority of the Committee has provided a broader perspective on the establishment of national knowledge bases. Of course, I agree with that. Consequently, the basis for the round of tenders for the previous year is a stage covered. But I have also reported that the committee that was to evaluate the tenders pointed out that several key issues were not resolved, and that the various tenders had their strengths and weaknesses. But we are equally concerned about keeping up-to-date and accessible lexicon bases online, and there is no doubt that the metadata and the amount of information in the Great Norwegian Lexicon can be an important element. The majority of the Committee then also mentions this in a separate section, indicating that this base is no longer maintained or further developed, and that the continuation of lexicon bases must be a central task in the knowledge society of the future. It is no coincidence that the majority of the Committee emphasises that the establishment of national knowledge bases must therefore be a priority task which must be carried out within a relatively short time frame. Here, too, the majority ask the Ministry to ensure access to up-to-date lexicon bases for use in e.g. schools and libraries. In the context of a unanimous attitude of the family, cultural and administrative committees to which the majority refer, a person shall not read much between the lines in order to understand the intention of the majority. In a free interpretation, I would like to state that it would not be in line with the position if the department let this information base and possibly others sail their own seas because today's online market does not provide sufficient revenue. This is a partial solution in the creation of national knowledge bases to ensure a base of up-to-date and reliable information and to ensure its access, inter alia. the education system. Ensuring the right of use and access to up-to-date lexicon bases is, in my opinion, buying information services in line with the written word. However, the setting is not a detailed recipe for the procedure or a blank authorisation for providers.We do not want to operate landfill management, but we leave the department to fulfill the clear intention in the setting in this area. We expect progress within a relatively short time frame, as the majority of the committee says. When the Council of State in the Newspaper says that the setting is in line with the Government's signals, I could immediately have interpreted it negatively and wondered if the Council of State has read the setting. But I can also choose to interpret it positively, as the Council of State wants to give signals there is a majority for here in the Chamber. I would again like to express satisfaction with the Committee's position and the desire for broad cooperation to establish national knowledge bases that will take care of both our knowledge and cultural heritage and be useful in our future knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1401	In this respect, I would like to take up the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and ask for this to be done against the committee's proposal for a vote. We have a slightly different view than the majority of the committee. We propose that the test procedure, where the Ministry has conducted a tendering procedure, be actually implemented. Extensive work has been done on this project. Our view is that it's actually important to get started, and that it'll give us valuable experience of having a trial plan implemented. At the same time, it is important, in our view, that the time spent during the trial period is also used for further processing of the project. The point of view of the Progress Party is that both the pilot project and further project work should aim at a solution that ensures the availability of libraries, schools, school students and students as well as the general population of a national and online knowledge base. We are concerned that this should include the continuation of the traditional Norwegian encyclopaedia and other actors who have and maintain knowledge bases of national importance and ensure that access to such knowledge takes place in Norwegian. The Party also stresses that the direct involvement of the State in a permanent solution is unclear and needs to be investigated. As far as our own proposal is concerned, the Progress Party will require a continuous evaluation of the pilot scheme and project and an evaluation report, with any proposals, will be submitted to the Stortinget. I want to add a couple more things. We have a time frame of two years that includes an evaluation. The Progress Party records that the Workers' Party, which took an initiative in this matter through a Document No. The 8's, and that went hard in the run-up, jumps relatively short. The lot of progress is of the opinion that the test system for which it has been prepared can actually be carried out today. Otherwise, I would like to stress what was said by the previous speaker, that we require an active follow-up from the Government. When you are in a minority, you have to be careful with both active follow-up and careful follow-up. This applies in several areas and more cases than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1418	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1421	Let me first congratulate the rapporteur on the matter. He has captured the input of the different fractions, and this has given a good majority position. It may be bold to use the word visionary, but at least I dare say that this setting is forward-looking. The majority draw up the lines for what should be in a national knowledge base, and we also try to define what should be public responsibility. I feel confident that through this setting, we will clarify the role of the state and what other actors will be responsible for. The point of departure for the matter has been explained by the rapporteur, with the situation for Great Norwegian Lexicon. The majority chose a broader approach. As I said, we have given clear guidance on what should be public responsibility. We're going to have a national knowledge base, not in the form of a traditional lexicon that's digitized, but as a public infrastructure. That's really what we're talking about. Public responsibility is three-thirds in many ways. Firstly, the public shall provide an access portal, as the rapporteur of the matter has explained. This portal shall link different bases, free of charge to users, and also bases for which payment will be made – commercial bases. The public shall build the portal and develop – I feel secure – metadata and indexes within this portal. Secondly, the public's task would be to make bases that are commercial, free of charge for certain user groups, such as schools and universities. The public must therefore conclude agreements with commercial bases that will lie within the national knowledge base and pay compensation for the use of specific user groups, such as schools, universities and possibly other relevant users. Thirdly, through a neutral body, such as the National Library and Others, public approval of the bases to be included in the national base must be part of this national construction work within this national portal. It is important, because I know that there are many bases located on the web, and it is important that there is some form of procedure for the approval of which different bases are to be linked to this public, national knowledge base, these access portals that are currently being established. It will be the three tasks of the public, namely infrastructure, access portal, agreements and participation in determining the bases to be available within the national knowledge base. The majority position of the Committee has not ended with a rescue action for a particular lexicon, it is important to underline. However, it is important to underline what was the starting point, namely that Great Norwegian Lexicon must somehow be preserved in the near future. Big Norwegian Lexicon is a commercial encyclopaedia. The owners have been making pretty good money on it for many years, and they have now come into a situation where the paper lexicon market is likely to be worse. The majority recognize that there is a lot of knowledge in this base. Large parts of our national memory are within this base. Therefore, it has to be preserved in some way. Large Norwegian Lexicon has also created a system that is likely to form the basis for the national knowledge base. When, for example: For Keyword Registers and Metadata, I believe that what is found in the Great Norwegian Lexicon could be a good starting point for a work in relation to the gateway to the National Knowledge Base. Therefore, the public interest is that the base of the Great Norwegian Lexicon is taken care of. In addition, it is likely that public authorities will also be interested in this base being free of charge for current users when we establish the national knowledge base. I feel reasonably sure that when we establish this gateway, it will be natural that the knowledge base of Great Norse Lexicon is available free of charge to certain user groups, such as schools and universities, and that it will be a responsibility for the public to facilitate it. For this reason, there are strong arguments that in this case the public and the owners should find out how to safeguard and develop this base in the future. I expect that the Council of State, based on what is in the majority position, will follow this up in a good way and come back to the Stortinget with information, as we have asked, so that we can take a broader debate on the basis of what will then be presented. It is important that we be able to keep up a good drive in this, because it is important that we get this in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1442	Lexicon publications were once a flourishing piece of work in Norway. But this is no longer the case, and the debate is now about how Norway should be secured a common broad knowledge base in the future. Such a knowledge base is about our national identity, about our ability to orient ourselves in our own culture and in our own language. We Nordics have long searched for actual knowledge in the lexicon, but new technology has greatly affected the lexicon industry. The mid-1990s CD-ROM wave led to the offering of lexicons to the audience at the same price as a music CD. So we need to integrate knowledge and technology so that the development of the IT community does not lead to the disappearance of the lexicon. It is therefore important that the Government has emphasised the importance of ensuring the common Norwegian information base in the IT community. Sources of general knowledge in Norwegian as well as knowledge of Norway and Norwegian affairs must therefore be considered in a broader perspective. The aim is to provide knowledge on a wide multimedia platform with a heavy impact on sound and images. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the ministry believes it is important to ensure access to large Norwegian knowledge bases for educational institutions and libraries. Yes, it is important for the whole of Norway! There has been a positive development in the Committee on this very matter, and I thank the rapporteur for that. The result has been that we are now going to get not only one national knowledge base, but more! We need to organize the knowledge bases in a broad way. In addition, it is important to assess the technological and content opportunities and challenges. The evaluation committee’s reports show that there are many issues that have not been adequately assessed through the competitive tendering process. Further work will be linked to interministerial IT policy cooperation eNorway and efforts to provide Norwegian electronic content on the network. It has also been indicated that there should be a close dialogue between private and public actors in the field, including those involved in the bidding process. In the education sector, the issue will be considered in the context of the experience gained in the framework of the Government's significant commitment to digital learning materials and the School network, and within the cultural field, the issue will be assessed in particular in the context of the further development of the cultural network Norway. The challenge in the further work is to ensure functional solutions with quality assured Norwegian content. It must be organised in such a way that it is easy to identify for the different user groups. At the same time, rules on public acquisitions, State aid and competition rules must be taken into account. The Christian People's Party believes that the Council of States will find the most appropriate and technologically most future-oriented solution in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1463	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive work in the Committee. National knowledge base, or national digital knowledge base, has a history that we've been referred to before. I believe that the Government is now getting a good document for the further work on establishing a national digital knowledge base that helps to secure and preserve our national knowledge and identity. A new time also offers new opportunities, and the digital everyday life has been here for a long time. The availability of information through Internet services is enormous and the problem is not, in fact, to obtain information, but the problem is often to assess the information available. And here, a national knowledge base is a very central tool to ensure the quality of the information collected. The central party therefore considers that it is essential that a national digital knowledge base has ‘a rootstock of reliable and verifiable knowledge’ as it stands in the setting. In this way, we can ensure that the bases become a good and quality-proof offer, among other things. for use in schools for students. The old lexicon's time is probably over, but it's not that long since we bought our first lexicon on payoff and put it in the living room. We're not going to cry about that time, because today we're not actually talking about lexicons, but we're talking – as we've heard before – about a multimedia platform with access portals and links. Live images and sound shall actually constitute the main weight of the substance which was previously only rewritten. The continuation and further development of lexicon bases in Norwegian and with references to Norwegian history and social life will be an important task, where the state will be a contributor and an organizer. The Centre Party will also stress the importance of ensuring equality between our two target forms in a future national digital knowledge base. And then I think about both text content and applicant systems, because it's actually about identity. The centre party believes that this matter is urgent, as the committee also stresses. I actually think that the government will work quickly and thoroughly, so that there will be a continuity in the work that is actually going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1478	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1494	The Coastal Party will fight for the best possible access to Norwegian exports on the world market and, of course, on the European market. At the same time, we will do everything in our power to ensure that cooperation agreements with other countries do not result in the loss of our national control over natural resources, key businesses and the labour market. If Norway goes ahead with a good example in this regard, we will be able to help create conditions for international trade agreements that do not undermine the ability of each country to have its own resources. This will increase their ability to withstand the negative effects of globalisation. The coastal party believes that the existing trade agreement of 4 January 1960 provides a good basis for regulating trade between the parties. This agreement is not governed by supranational bodies and important decisions must be unanimous. The Coastal Party considers that the EFTA Agreement should be maintained primarily as a trade agreement, but with the possibility of including cooperation in other restricted areas. There may be research, exchange of professional personnel, development of industrial projects, etc. In this way, the organisation of Norway could act as a good alternative to, for example: EEA. Further development of EFTA would be unproblematic if it remained within the above limits. However, without obtaining a clear mandate from Stortinget, the Government and the Government have negotiated a revised agreement which also provides for wide-ranging EEA adaptations. This means that the Government is trying to deprive Stortinget of the opportunity to determine the premises for negotiations on an international agreement of great importance to Norway. We cannot characterize this as acceptable from the Coastal Party. The Coastal Party therefore proposes that the Stortinget return the case to the Government and asks that the 1960 EFTA Agreement be renegotiated on a new basis. In this context, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision sends the case back to the Government, which is required to open new negotiations with a view to maintaining the EFTA Convention as a trade agreement without the extensive adaptation to the EEA rules currently proposed. These relate in particular to investments, public acquisitions, the free movement of capital and the free movement of persons.» In order to take the explanation of vote immediately: if the Stortinge rejects our return proposal and the present deposit proposal is promoted, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1510	The representative has taken up the proposal he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1513	Just a short comment, because it's part of the debate on these agreements that could lead to the kind of misunderstanding that one heard here. Let me therefore say that the core of what was now said by the Coastal Party is in the EEA Agreement. What happens to the EFTA Agreement is that it is upgraded to improve it in accordance with the EEA Agreement and that Switzerland is included in it. If one were to follow what is being expressed by the Coastal Party, and which might indirectly be implied in a comment in the vote, then the logic would be to propose to cancel the EEA Agreement – because it is the core of this. Thus, there is no point in discussing this in relation to the EFTA Agreement, because the EFTA Agreement is a consequence of the EEA Agreement, only one in practice includes Switzerland in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1518	The installation from Swensen was very juicy, to say it carefully. As far as I was aware, he accused the previous government of going beyond its mandate. It is clear that this should at least be commented on. When this is an agreement that has been concluded by the previous government, it may be funny that I should defend it, but I have to say that I hope and believe that what Swensen said at this point was not quite serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1523	It must be clear that the Coastal Party has always opposed the EEA Agreement and its adjustments. That is why I am aware of the things I have said in this matter. I see this as a strong harmonisation of the EFTA Agreement in relation to EEA legislation. The EFTA Agreement could be a free trade alternative to the EEA Agreement, which the Coastal Party is opposed to, so we fully support that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1528	Just a short note. SV has had the case rapporteurship in this matter, but the case rapporteur in question is abroad at the moment. As we have understood this matter, Norway has pressed for some liberalisations in the field of trade in services and investment in relation to the negotiations with Switzerland to be implemented, while Switzerland has opposed them. These are fundamental issues in negotiations between Norway and other countries regarding this type of agreement, which we have wanted to address on a more principleal basis. That's why I and Bjørn Jacobsen have put in a Document No. Eight proposals on what should be the starting point for this type of debate. The dilemma I think you get in if you do what the Coastal Party suggests, is that you negotiate better on Switzerland's behalf than Switzerland does on its own. This is a negotiated agreement which is recommended to the Swiss Parliament by those who have negotiated on their behalf, and then it is a little strange for us to try it out. But we've put in a document number to get this up on a more basic basis. Eight proposals to be examined by Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1457]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1553	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1569	The case officer here is from the Labour Party, and is presumed to be in the same foreign country as the previous case spokesman. I should like to make a few comments on this option. What is being discussed here is the way the Storting is going to deal with WTO issues. The content of the WTO process is not up to date, but the way in which Size should handle it. Here, both the previous government and the current one have determined that one should carry out a larger distribution work on globalisation. Rightly, there may be a little different wording on the globalisation project that the Government is pursuing, but the point is that there will be a pool of knowledge and information and proposals on what is happening around the WTO and the whole process of globalisation. The fact that the devices may be slightly different is that the point is that this should end up in a document that goes to the Storting, where there is a possibility to discuss the WTO and international trade and the consequences for Norway based on the knowledge acquired through this distribution work. In addition, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also stated that one should have close contact with the Storting on WTO work. Therefore, there will probably be more foreign minister outbursts and opportunities for the Storting to discuss the concrete rounds of WTO negotiations, both in plenary and to some extent in other bodies in the Stortinget, such as the Foreign Affairs Committee. I just want to focus on one point in that context, i.e. that there is an advantage if the most possible of these debates can be held as plenary debates, unless there is very little special interest in bringing the debates before the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. The proposalers have a significant point of view that it is important that such debates take place in plenary and in public, so that there is no reason to think that there are conditions that are kept away from public opinion, when there is actually no reason to do so. In other words, I think that the essentials of the presentation from Marit Arnstad and Åslaug Haga should have been taken care of in what the plurals have said here, and what the Government has put forward, and on that basis, of course, I would recommend the Committee's position on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1580	As we all know very well, a new wide-ranging round of negotiations has been decided in the WTO. Negotiations will take place over several years and could have far-reaching consequences for Norwegian society in areas such as: agriculture, health, culture and investment. Negotiations will determine whether it is possible to maintain, for example: a small-scale agriculture in Norway, if we can maintain a national cultural policy, if we can decide how to organise services in the public sector, just to give some examples. Negotiations will also relate to the opportunities that international society will have for combating poverty and environmental problems. The majority of the population don't want an in-depth debate on these questions. This despite the fact that the negotiations will be able to provide important framework conditions for the political space that we will have for years to come. It therefore surprises the centre party that the Storting will not engage more strongly in these matters. The new round of negotiations has been discussed in broad circles in Norway and internationally, among others. the absence of evaluations of the significance of previous rounds of negotiations for individual countries and for groups of countries. There is every reason to believe that the forthcoming round of negotiations will also be controversial on a number of points precisely because it will affect areas of vital importance for individual countries. The centre party believes that it would be inconsequential if we ended up with more debate on the WTO negotiations in non-governmental organisations and in the public rather than a choice in relation to the Storting. The majority of the population believe, as Blankenborg has stated, that it is possible to discuss the WTO in the context of the treatment of what is well a big message about globalisation. But, as Blankenborg also said, it is unclear what kind of document this will be. And it is certainly possible if we get a document on globalisation – as I suppose we are doing – to discuss the WTO in that context, but there will be many issues in a very comprehensive debate, and one will certainly not go down in detail in relation to what the different parts of WTO legislation means for different areas of society in Norway. Those who have tried to get involved in WTO legislation will know that it is extremely detailed and inaccessible, and the rudeness is often hidden in the details. The centre party notes that the majority of the population does not want to debate. We're sorry about that. We believe that there is evidence of a lack of understanding of the complexity and importance of the negotiations you are about to enter into.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1595	I will allow myself to think that the statement made by the representative Haga that the great majority did not want a debate, was a matter of urgency and, indeed, a matter of time. That's not what's in the plural's comments. And of course, all the issues raised by the representative Haga can be included in the debate we get in connection with the globalisation message. Now the Foreign Minister himself can comment on it, but as far as I understand it, this message will be able to come in the course of the year – in good time before it begins to end the process that is currently underway in relation to the WTO. This began with an explanation of how the international market forces work and how to control and control our own development in relation to it, and it is the distribution work that is being carried out now. It will then focus on the opportunities and challenges of globalisation and, in this context, the work of the WTO is central. There is an important and necessary debate about this – of course it is. And there's a debate out there in society, as the representative Haga says. But it's also a point to put that debate into context, because that's what the whole new globalization situation is kind of challenging us and giving us opportunities for, which actually makes us the other people think it's important to include all the issues when we first discuss this. It is a matter of being able to see the WTO from a broad perspective. That's why we said we didn't want an own message on the WTO agreement and negotiations for Norwegian society. The potential here is to facilitate economic growth and progress in all countries, not least in developing countries. 142 WTO member countries are developing countries, and it is clear that if we organise this work well, there are enormous possibilities for them to progress. And after the empire that's ahead, it's trade and the kind of agreements that have actually led these countries to a great extent. We need international cooperation in a world that is becoming increasingly vulnerable. We also need to make sure that we in Norway get work for everyone, further development of business, fair distribution and sustainable development. In fact, it is obvious that we should consider what was said about a small-scale agriculture and everything else that Haga had with him. But it would in some way be strange if it was the case that all the countries that are now active in the WTO process felt that the problems were so big – because I heard nothing but the problem in the Hagas representative's posts compared to what the WTO represents. It's quite obvious that there's a problem in a range of areas, including for us, but the sum is that it's an important process. The government party wants to be with and debate it, but we also want to see it in conjunction with the international development in total and in relation to the mission that the government has given to both the previous and the current government. I therefore like to meet the representative Haga in a debate on this where we have a common position on the issue of caring for Norwegian society in the city and in the country, but we are also going to help the third world to come up with living conditions that are more similar to ours than they are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1615	I just want to make a few comments, because how the Storting wants to deal with WTO issues and globalisation is, of course, the Storting's own responsibility, and we follow that loyally. I just want to say that the track that the majority add up to in this message, the government seems to be an excellent track. But once I've taken the floor, there's still a few things I want to say. One is that the myth of not discussing globalisation and the WTO must not get caught up. The fact that no one gets involved in the debate should not be confused with the fact that it is not a debate. I just want to remind you that the Sem Declaration, on which this government is based, is very clear on a part of the important things that are about governance. But it also asks an important question: Given that globalisation has come to be – because I think it is – what kind of grip do we take nationally to be rusted? It's some of the most important things the government says, and we've always invited that away to debate about. The fact that it is not being followed up is insofar as the responsibility of individual representatives is concerned. But that it is not a debate, and that the Government and the majority do not want a debate, I would definitely say that is not right, precisely because the Sem declaration is so clear on this. With regard to WTO negotiations specifically, I would like to remind you that the Storting has, after all, given its acceptance to the scheme set up by the Government. I hope we don't get a debate now that makes you start to doubt what you've done here. We now have a mission that we're going to go on. The Doha negotiations were successful, and now one goes on. It is very important that we still report back to Stortinget when you reach the top points in the negotiations. When they will come, it is not possible to say at this stage. But I want to say that, of course, the government is always going to have a close contact with the Storting at that point. But what might be more central in this Document No. The 8 proposal is not what you do in the future, but an evaluation of the legal rules that are already there. It's a little bit of a story because now you have to change these rules. But it is a debate that we have always had and that we have wanted to have, and it is a debate that it would be natural to address in the context of the communication on globalisation, as the majority supports. But as I said, it must not be a feeling that you do not want to debate. You've been doing that all along. There have been debates, and there have been many opportunities in the general debates to address this issue properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1626	I asked to speak again, mainly in the light of the comments of the representative Lilletun, because Lilletun insinuates that the centre party is only concerned with the problems associated with the WTO, and that we also approach the WTO in a relatively narrow national interest perspective. This is wrong. The centre party is definitely also concerned with the global perspective. And in my view, that is precisely what is the main challenge of how the WTO is to develop further – whether it is going to be a trade regime that is actually good for the poorest countries, which is actually good for those groups that are marginalised. So there's no doubt that the Center Party wants to have the global perspective in this process. But it is also the case that we are going into a demanding negotiation process. And it's a negotiation process where we're going to keep the global perspective and argue from what we – from our point of view – believe will serve the world's environment and the world's poor, but it's also a process in which we're going to defend national interests. So there's two sides to this. I feel that in Norway we are largely adhering to the very general debate, a general debate on whether globalisation is good or whether globalisation is bad. It might be interesting enough to have that as a perspective. I am of those who believe that globalisation brings with it much good, but we need to control it, and we need more debate on that. But globalisation has come to be, and we have to deal with a globalized world. In the debate on the negotiations now to take place, we must also be very aware of what our national interests are in the area by region. I feel that there is very little debate on that, and I think that the Stortinge had been very good at having an open debate on that perspective as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1635	I'll be very brief. I just want to say that I am very pleased that the last article by Haga's representative expressed something quite different than the one that both the proposal and the first post of Haga's representative presented, where the problems were largely superfluous. But now there was also another perspective. Then I actually thought this little round here was useful, and then we look forward to the big debate after the big message has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1642	I honestly think there's a little bit of confusion here, so let me just clarify two points. I've read the minority so that you want to have a debate not on the things that are coming, but on the existing rules. At least it's in the setting. If that's not the point, I just want to say that I think there is a broad consensus that we need to have an ongoing debate on the challenges we face. When I took the floor, it was because I got the impression that perhaps a sort of rematch was made on the negotiation that Stortinget gave to the Government before the Doha negotiations. But I just want to say clearly that I'm assuming that you don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31.ana.ud2237e1649	The debate on case No. 5 is over. The President shall record the immediate expiry of the agenda for the morning sitting. Purpose of case No. 6 is an inter-pelling debate which, according to the Rules of Procedure, may last up to 1 hour, the President is unable to propose an extension of the morning meeting. So we cancel the meeting. The evening meeting will begin at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
