ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e18	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e45	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e52	Document No 8:70 by Jan Simonsen, representative of the Government, to ensure that Norwegian municipalities are not obliged to receive asylum seekers against their will, is justified by the fact that the representative believes that Norwegian asylum policy involves a significant intervention in the municipal self-government. The Committee points out that it is the State responsible for the reception and temporary accommodation of asylum seekers and that there is a national housing committee in which the municipal sector is represented, dealing with these matters. The Committee also points out that the municipalities have no direct right of objection in respect of such establishments. However, the Committee may understand that some municipalities are overrun when reception is established. There have been some examples showing that municipalities feel frustrated in some way and that there may be evidence that there has been a poor dialogue between government and municipal authorities. No one in the Committee, except the Progress Party, will change the current system, and it is therefore not acceptable. The Progress Party believes that it is important to see the conflicts that arise in the municipal sector and will see the whole reception system in the context. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the Government be asked to ensure that Norwegian municipalities do not be required to receive asylum seekers against their will. In addition, the Progress Party proposes that the Storting should ask the Government to remove the 15-month humanitarian residence rule, without exception. As regards Document No: 8:83, which overlaps with the previous proposal, but here the majority of the Committee points out that a whole range of measures have already been put in place. The Committee is very concerned here with the financial burdens imposed on municipalities in the establishment of asylum recipients and points out that the State should be financially responsible for the financial burdens that local authorities may have. The Committee also agrees that processes between the UDI and the municipalities should be improved and therefore supports the proposal of the proposer. The progress party goes a little further here than the committee. We point out that the variation in the need for reception places is great. It also does so in its entirety, but the Progress Party believes that these variations can be avoided by improving the management of asylum migration itself. Since Bondevik I took up government offices in 1997, there has been a dramatic increase in asylum immigration to Norway. It also points to an overall committee. For this reason, the Progress Party is committed to seeking solutions to significantly reduce the asylum flow to Norway. The Progress Party proposes to ask the Government to consider giving the municipalities final approval responsibility for the establishment of asylum recipients. In addition to having a better dialogue with municipalities, it should be possible to create a system in which municipalities can better control this kind of establishment. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals in the vote. I would also like to present proposal No. 4 on behalf of Lodve Solholm, Harald T. Nesvik and myself that «The Grand Government is asking the Government to stop the establishment of asylum-seekers in Sæbø».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e75	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e78	Very many asylum seekers have come here in the first few months of this year. Although it now appears that fewer people are coming, there is a very great need to establish new asylum facilities around the country. The Labour Party understands that many municipalities do not want new receptions to be created in their municipality. However, it is difficult to give municipalities a general veto in the situation we are currently in. Norway has international obligations in relation to the reception and temporary accommodation of asylum seekers. Having said that, the Workers' Party believes that it is necessary that the process to and must take place before a reception is established in a municipality, be carried out in cooperation with the municipality concerned. UDI must not overrun the municipalities so that the municipalities have nothing to say at such an establishment. There are, after all, many tasks that each municipality has set up for a new reception is set up to solve. I would like to give an example of the establishment of reception that the Workers' Party believes may be unfortunate. It's a little bit built on Sunnmaere called Sæbeø. There's only 90 people living there, mostly older. It's 2.7 miles to the nearest neighbor, who's Ørsta. In these days, a private individual has bought the old nursing home and wants to establish asylum reception there, a reception that will accommodate 100 people, i.e. more than those who live in the countryside. I understand that people in the village react – because they have done that for good. Pressing through a reception in this small community against the wishes of the municipality and most inhabitants may not be the way to go, even though UDI has the right to do so. But to decide that you should have an exception for someone, for whom there are specific proposals in Stortingen, I don't think it's the way to go either. The working party also expects that the UDI now has the capacity to handle the many asylum cases much faster than before, so that all those who do not receive a residence permit are sent out again and do not take up their place in reception. The launch of the High Speed Court is important. It was alarming to hear the State Council at Dørum in Stortinget yesterday, where he confirmed that it is now approx. 4000 waiting to be sent out. Then it is not surprising that there is a need for many new receptions. This must be sorted by the Government immediately. The Central Party proposes in its proposal that the municipalities be fully compensated for the additional costs of setting up reception. Transitional arrangements ensuring compensation for the initial period following any closure shall also be taken into account. The working party is afraid it may be difficult to define what such compensation should contain. We have recorded that some municipalities have expressed dissatisfaction with the expenditure incurred in the municipality in connection with the state receipts. If it turns out that the current rates do not cover the costs incurred by the municipalities, consideration should be given to raising the rates. This can also be done by the State purchasing the services in question in the municipality or in private, so that no municipality is exposed to unforeseen expenditure by being the host municipality of an asylum recipient.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e95	All asylum seekers who are granted residence in the country must have a place to live. It is a reality. As a result, asylum seekers who have received a residence permit have to reside in a municipality. It's worth noting the process that we actually have in connection with the settlement. The country is responsible for reception and temporary accommodation, but the number to be settled in each country is determined in a national housing committee where the local government sector is represented. This is also a relatively new system that has proved to work well. Municipalities have no veto rights and cannot refuse to accept asylum seekers. In the opinion of the Right, this must continue to be the starting point, if we are to make it possible to get asylum seekers into active society as quickly as possible. And that's actually the key prerequisite for successful integration. It is a fact that the housing issue occupies many at the municipal level and that some municipalities have probably felt overrun when asylum seekers are established. We have, as we know, a wide range of municipalities in this country, from very small to up to the capital level. The prerequisite for successful integration is that municipalities are positive to the settlement that is taking place. A good dialogue between the State authorities and the municipalities and the counties is therefore crucial. It is equally necessary that the UDI authorities take into account the circumstances of each municipality and see the settlement of asylum seekers in relation to the size and assumptions of the municipalities. It has been said many times here today that Norway has committed itself internationally to receiving asylum seekers and refugees, so there is nothing in the current situation that suggests that the issue of housing is becoming less important in the future. Those granted a residence permit shall reside in a good dialogue between the UDI and the States and municipalities concerned. It has to be a general rule. Although most in the political environment are relatively united in terms of integration policy, I must admit that I am somewhat surprised at the acute concern of the Labour Party and the party's suggestion that something needs to be done. It is obvious to ask why not the Workers' Party did this when they put themselves in government. We have had a lot of influxes of asylum seekers for several years. Bad procedural procedures have led to unmanageable cows, which in turn has resulted in far more than necessary humanitarian stays because they have had to wait too long for their applications to be dealt with. In addition, we have not been able to repatriate asylum seekers who have been denied their applications. It's still a big challenge. According to the police, they have no capacity or resources. Wages and salaries are an obstacle factor. My question is then: why can't we let other groups in society take care of this task, so that we can get ahead on sending asylum seekers who don't have the right to be here? There are many resource persons with a relevant background of experience, not least in the Defence. I note that the Progress Party has today presented a proposal asking the Government to assess the possibilities of using the Defence Resources. This proposal should be able to be assessed and supported. But back to the settlement: The government, in cooperation with the UDI, has taken a number of measures to improve the routines and to speed up settlements in the municipalities. This has been duly mentioned earlier today, so in the form of keywords I now just mention fragmentation of the asylum institution in the asylum centre and waiting transit, with short reception and rapid return of the asylum recipient exposed to rapid return; low private settlement attempts, which must also be evaluated; In terms of information and communication with the municipalities and the counties, I think there is still potential for improvement. The government and UDI are working to improve the processes of setting up receptions. Nevertheless, it is that one never gets good enough. We therefore support the proposal of the Central Party in Document No. 8:83 point 1. There is no disagreement that the State should cover the financial expenditure of the municipalities. But another discussion is where the boundaries are to go, and which offers are to be made in each municipality. For example, how many cultural offerings should be offered? Are you going to get started? It must be up to the municipal self-government to assess the service provision within the financial framework provided by the state. The proposal for full economic coverage is unexplained and therefore cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e133	If we start with the beginning, it's like people are on the run in the world, and Norway has taken on the job of accepting people who are on the run. It's a national obligation to accept the 15,000 refugees who arrived last year, and we need a way to do it. Then there are the questions: is it right that municipalities should be able to refuse to accept asylum seekers who are obliged by Norway to accept? No, not if that results in us failing to meet our international obligations. But is it reasonable for municipalities to have long-term planning of necessary public services in relation to asylum recipients, such as kindergartens, schools and health services? Yeah, definitely. And is it reasonable that municipalities that want to operate receive are allowed to develop skills in this area in order to get some long-term work? Yes. Is that how it works today? No, no, no. Then we're into what's at the core, and there's two problems. One, as is known, is that the number of asylum seekers fluctuates from year to year. We therefore have a strong need to have municipalities that are prepared on short notice to rebuild reception, and that, when necessary, or when the need decreases, can build them up again, but still be on the alert. Then I would like to refer to the proposals that SV has previously made about parishes, which can have just such a function. The second problem is tender, and I would like to read it in front of the majority of the committee – including the Progress Party – when dealing with the asylum and refugee notification. They said, ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Advance Party, shall require all reception operations to be tendered.’; In this context, there will be more transparent and better decision-making processes, which will also be a safeguard against allegations of unequal treatment and unfair allocation practices. The reason why I mention this is that at the moment you decide to put all the operations of asylum-seekers on the market, there are two consequences. One is that asylum-seekers can no longer be controlled against those who are just competent, who are just willing to operate these receptions. You say the only thing that has to be determined is the price. And that's the way it is now – and it's especially for the Progress Party – that in many places that are not so central, which are not close to densely populated, it'll be cheaper to hire abandoned military camps. It's cheaper to get a room in Nordkjosbotn than near the Drammen. So there will be places that are far from people, where the community will have more and stronger aspirations to get an asylum reception, and where, in the first place, it might not be the smartest thing to put an asylum reception. The second aspect is that there are problems in ensuring that those who work there have proper skills. You will get a quick recruitment when you are suddenly told in a municipality that in two weeks there will be an asylum reception nearby. Then we come to the last point: is it reasonable for municipalities to bear the costs of their national obligations in relation to asylum recipients? No, that's not it! It is reasonable that the extra costs that small places receive — such as additional health costs, such as extra costs for kindergartens, etc. – the debit shall be covered by the State. And that's not happening today. That is why I would like to address the proposal that the Senterpartiet and SV agree on in the Innst. S. No 133. Then I'll say one thing at the end. It concerns a proposal that has been distributed, and to which Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa comes back. The situation of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers has been raised for a long time, most recently in the context of the budget last autumn, and earlier in the context of the asylum notification. We have said that it is right that single minor asylum seekers should be taken care of by child protection, and we have said that it is right that they should have a proper follow-up and a proper offer. Time and again it has been promised from ministers and from others on the government team that they will get a real offer. Still, we're going to have a look-up, like this. what was in the newspaper today, suggesting that there is still a high need to monitor the situation of single minor asylum seekers. If they had been alone in Norway and were 15 years old, they would have received a real offer from child protection in all other circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e155	Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e158	Representative for Storting Jan Simonsen's Document No. Eight proposals are not accepted by the majority of the Committee. For the Christian People's Party, two important principles have been established once we have reached that conclusion. Firstly, Norway is bound by the Refugee Convention. As a nation, we must accept and process applications for asylum. For the Christian People's Party, the very question of human rights, human vision and human dignity is crucial in such matters. Secondly, this is a national and no municipal obligation. It must therefore be a state responsibility. It is therefore not possible to grant a veto on these questions to the municipalities. When we are to receive asylum seekers, it is important that the process is good. The Council of State has then also, by letter to the Committee, explained how the process is now being implemented. It is important that UDI alerts when considering establishing a place of business — in advance of the establishment of such a business. It is important to inform the local press population where establishment is to take place. But it's wrong if this is the information the municipalities get, and they have to read their own local media in order to be informed. When tenders are submitted, it is important that the obligation to inform the municipality is followed up. If the municipality applies, it is of course aware of the situation. It is important that it be notified when decisions are taken. This is largely about the potential for improvement in dialogue and in close cooperation. Both in Document No. 8:70 and in Document No 8:83 it points to bad examples. It is pointed out that in Kommune-Norway it is felt to be overrun, and it is clear that this is unfortunate. In Document No: 8:83, from the representatives of Meltveit Kleppa and the Skjellaa, to improve the processes of setting up asylum recipients, that is precisely what they are addressing. So there are several examples of bad processes that have been highlighted in both of these Document Nos. The eight proposals. According to the document, KS believes that several municipalities have had the same experience as the municipality of Sokndal. Even I know the experience of a municipality south of my municipality of residence, Harstad, where people had arranged housing and equipment, and then suddenly there was no use for those places anyway. The municipality had done its job, but the places were not used. This, of course, is unfortunate. The majority, all except the Advance Party, is stated in Document No. 8:83 satisfied that today's settlement system is designed so that the State cannot oblige the municipalities to settle refugees. So this happens voluntarily. Voluntary activities were a central theme of a previous debate today. The majority realise that the State of the UDI is responsible for a sufficient number of reception places for asylum seekers at all times, and the majority emphasises what I have been involved in, namely the good dialogue. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore natural to conclude about the representatives of Meltveit Kleppa and the proposals of the Skjellaa: ‘The Government requests the review of established practices for the establishment of refugee receptions with a view to better preparatory processes between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the relevant municipalities.’ [[UDI]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e180	The centre party is very pleased with the full support of the Committee to request the Government to review the practice of setting up refugee receptions with a view to better preparatory processes between the UDI and the municipalities. Only SV supports the proposal of the Centre Party for full financial compensation for additional costs of such establishment, including transitional arrangements ensuring compensation for the first time after closure. We're assuming that the state can't order the municipalities to busge refugees. We assume that the reception of refugees and asylum seekers is a national task – there must always be some reception on standby. But when it is today that no approval from the municipality is required for the creation of a private reception, it means that a municipality can experience challenges such as: classification in the base school in the middle of a school year, greater need for health services, child protection measures, interpreting services and any Norwegian education for adults in a newly created reception. Municipalities are obliged to provide services to residents in receptions of asylum. That's what we think it has to be, but the more important it is with a much better preparatory dialogue between the municipalities and the UDI than today. We took this proposal on the basis of the Sokndal Municipality, which had had careful discussions in the Presidency and in other bodies and had agreed that the municipality was unable to facilitate reception. Causes include: that they already lacked the necessary professional skills both in the school and in the health sector. So they got a message on January 21st, despite a co-conspirator's decision that they couldn't do this, that there would be a reception on February 1st. There is no doubt that UDI has additional challenges at a time when asylum seekers are strongly infused, and challenges will not be reduced if optimal information and dialogue are not put in place. KS has reported that several municipalities have been in the same situation as Sokndal. Since this proposal was made, several individual municipalities have also approached me. The local authorities see that a veto can be difficult. I share that assessment, and I don't support Jan Simonsen's proposal. However, it is quite clear that a practice that, in many cases today, is not a starting point for the dialogue that should be established between local communities and reception. So when it comes to the economic aspects, both the practical and the economic conditions of the municipalities can contribute to a no. There may be undercapacity within child-resistance services, there may be a lack of manpower and building capacity in schools and kindergartens, or difficulties in recruiting current professional personnel. And we all know that many municipalities already have a tight community economy. And although the Committee will not go so far as to include transitional arrangements, I am pleased with the strong comment on page 3 of the opinion that the State should initially bear all the costs of setting up reception. Therefore, procurement has resulted in reception being open or switched off at short notice. The local authorities may then find themselves in a situation where they have done their best to get enough staff, and suddenly they do not need them, and they have to take their own costs. As a result, I believe that both the municipalities and the Council of State now have to follow closely on such transitional costs. So the situation for single minor asylum seekers. Yeah, it's bad that the United Nations Children's Committee comes with the message they're doing. But it is also bad with all the messages that come from support contacts and others about how single minor asylum seekers actually do it in Norway nowadays. I'll come back to it in a three-minute post. At this stage, I would like to make a proposal that the Stortinget asks the Government to take immediate action to ensure better follow-up for single minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e195	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e199	For me, it is sometimes a cross-thinking that, as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I have many requests to establish jobs around Norway. And when you want to do that in the immigration and foreign affairs field, it's not exactly applause that comes when you actually get them established. It's a cross of thought. I understand that there are major problems related to this, but I am pleased that the broad majority of the committee agrees that we cannot give the municipalities veto in these matters. First of all, it would be hopeless in terms of pace, and I think we would have created a lot of bad and difficult debates out in Municipality-Norway if we had given them this right. In fact, I think that in a number of communities, it's the state that takes responsibility, and then we'll get to grips with it sometimes. So we have so many arrivals at the moment that we have set up a new asylum reception every week for a period of time. There is a great pressure on the UDI to find adequate accommodation solutions, and it also presents challenges for municipalities that are host municipalities for reception or who choose to operate them themselves. Regardless of the solution, municipalities will have tasks or responsibilities related to residents in reception. Therefore, it is important that we have a good relationship with Kommune-Norway. It requires additional efforts in several areas. Government schemes providing compensation to municipalities with reception are intended to cover the costs incurred by municipalities in this context. At regular intervals, the amount has been assessed, not later than 2000, when negotiations were held and what was actually the level of coverage. Reception of asylum seekers is a challenge, and it would be good if all parties agreed to both establishment and termination of reception, so that it can be done in the best possible way. There is now a competitive reception, and I believe this is right in relation to the decision-making process. These requirements include, inter alia: a requirement for written notification by the local authority when a tenderer submits a tender. In addition, any providers are required to inform the municipality concerned that the offer of reception operations has been sent to the UDI and that prior to the establishment of the reception, the contact, dialogue and cooperation between the UDI, the municipality and the operator are provided. I believe that we can do better in these areas. The majority ask us for a review, which I agree with, and I can then confirm that there is a process that UDI is already involved in, because you have a work going on reviewing the procedures for this. It is not only the Municipal Committee in Stortinget that gets contact and letters, it also does the Council of State, and we see some examples that things could have been better, even though we sometimes feel that there may be some misunderstandings. I also agree with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in what they have written about the importance of having ‘some reception with longer term in order to ensure a core competence’. It is an essential element of it as a majority of the Stortinget said in connection with St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001. During May, the UDI will provide an assessment of how to establish long-term agreements for the operation of reception, with the aim of building up and maintaining and further developing the competence of operators and reception staff. I also want to link some comments to what has happened with the system itself and the procedures. In the context of the suspension of the establishment and operation of reception, UDI has established procedures – called a procurement protocol. A propulsion plan is drawn up to which any operators must deal. The plan includes both the date of advertising, the time limit for notifying its interest and any questions. It is also in this system that we have made contact with the municipality, where we will ensure that we can get time for good contact. But we have an assessment of how this could develop better in the future. It is wrong for municipalities to find out that receiving them is being informed by the local press. I understand that they react negatively, and that is not the way it should be. I want to say one thing about one of the problems we have today. According to the last status I saw, we have approx. 16 000 residents. So many of us have almost never had before, even during the top of the Kosovo and Bosnia crises. There are two problems: getting them to both ends. One is to get them returned. Yes, we are working hard to do that. But I have to draw attention to the fact that a labour conflict like the one we have currently linked to the police is not that easy to ignore. So the police themselves have chosen to have some sort of slow-moving action, because they now disagree with a code that they have actually signed, a code that has been in place for over two years, and which they have declared to be in disagreement with, except the negotiating system itself. That makes us get an extra big need for the moment, but I hope we can solve the problem relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e216	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e219	Let me first thank the Committee for dealing with my proposal in a proper, serious and thorough manner. I noticed that a joint committee showed an understanding of the problem. They write: ‘The Committee can therefore understand that some municipalities feel overwhelmed by the establishment of asylum-seekers, which in some cases involve relatively many asylum-seekers in some municipalities’. The Committee also acknowledges that it sees the problem of the establishment of reception where municipalities oppose this. However, the majority of the committee clearly believes that there is no way out — it may be necessary. I myself am convinced that we will not get into a situation where so many municipalities are negative that they make it impossible to fulfil our national obligations. Until such a situation arises, at least asylum reception should be avoided in negative municipalities. The proposals I have put forward earlier today on a tightening up of asylum policy, with simpler and faster dealing with obvious issues, will greatly reduce the number of asylum seekers to Norway, thus reducing the problem of finding suitable places to place asylum seekers. I have registered that the Progress Party has taken up my proposal in the Committee and in the Chamber, and I am of course pleased about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e233	Unfortunately, there are many municipalities that feel redundant, and there are many small community communities that also feel overwhelmed when one goes to the creation of asylum recipients. One of these municipalities is Ørsta municipality on Sunnmøre, where the small village of Sæbø, with approx. 80 permanent asylum seekers, perhaps now receive an asylum reception with 100 asylum seekers. There is an old-age home to be used, an old-age home that was built for 30–40 inhabitants in its time, and now has to accommodate 100 people there. This means that the building is not owned. The representative Heikki Holmås talked about offer. I would assume that when you put this on offer, there is something called the offer document, and that in these offer documents, there is not only price. There must be standard requirements, requirements for some services, schooling, for example, which may be relevant, and local requirements must be imposed. That's why I have to say that I'm very surprised by UDI. The municipality has said no, they do not want any reception at Sæbø, but the municipality has not said no to a reception in Ørsta Municipality. When they, as far as I know, have not said no to it, I think this is going to overrun and create unnecessary conflicts. That's why I want to ask the Council of State, and that's what's the idea behind the proposal that I'm a part of, whether she can go in and look at this again and make the UDI realize that it's – excuse me the expression – madness to place an asylum reception in this tiny village. And I'm assuming that the Council of State has family ties to Sunnmare, and she also knows the place of Sæbø, so she knows well what kind of construction we're talking about. It would be a pity for both the municipality and asylum seekers if they were to be in such a small place, and there might be conflict. So I want to ask the Council of State to possibly go in and look at this. We will then be able to assess whether we should turn this proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e240	These are exactly the cases that Solholm's representative addressed in his statement now, which creates conflicts. That's why it's a little bit surprising that we don't have any more confidence in the municipalities themselves making that kind of decisions. In the case of refugees, municipalities have the right to decide. I am not afraid – but it seems that the other parties are – that if we allow the municipalities to have decision-making rights here, that is to say, that all municipalities across the country say no to asylum recipients. I don't believe anything in it. I actually think that the municipalities will evaluate it the same way as when they consider accepting refugees. But it will mean that in those municipalities where there are small resources, low skills, there is no labour force, and where it is not possible to establish any labour force, there will be a burden on municipalities. In fact, I think that SV might be able to fulfill their dream of joint municipal councils. Then we would have to establish it, and I think some municipalities are ready to do that. To the Christian People's Party: this is not about breaking human rights or conventions. It is simply about having the same asylum reception system as we have for refugees. We cannot claim that we are violating any human rights or conventions because if the municipalities have the right to decide to accept refugees. That's what the Christian People's Party indirectly says. So that's what the Right Representative was into. I understand that in a way, we must be more coercive in establishing asylum recipients, if that is right and if I understand the representative from the Right, that they are basing their future on accepting 15 000 to 20 000 asylum seekers this year. Because that's what the representative from the Right says when she starts saying that we have a lot of asylum immigration now, but that might be a little bit compared to what we can expect in the future. I then understand that we may need to use coercion against the municipalities to establish more and more asylum recipients. But the Progress Party has an intention that at least the Government follows up what it itself says in relation to tightening up asylum immigration. Although they do not agree with the proposals of the Progress Party, at least indirectly from the Government – and the Council of State says itself – it is said that they should tighten up so that the increase we are now seeing will not be so great in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e249	It is obvious that it is crucial that single minor asylum seekers get a good start and follow-up in Norway. Many of them have traumatic events behind them, there are experiences that one should go through, they're as simple as it can be. When the refugee message was processed last year, the search light was seen on the situation for this particular group. In St.meld. No 17 for 2000–01, a number of measures, including a better protection system, increased use of foster homes in preference to asylum recipients, were to be implemented in a number of areas with strong staffing that could better deal with many of the problems facing children and young people. Some of us thought that every minor asylum seeker should be a concern for child protection. I am strengthened in the belief that this is the case, and all asylum recipients who have single minor asylum seekers should have had the status of a child protection institution, in order to automatically ensure a better follow-up. It may seem that when the offer model is introduced, the search light has been so one-sided in costs that instead of getting the better, this group has actually been followed up worse. I'm surprised when I hear about – most recently yesterday – an example that tells about 15-year-olds who get paid money in their hands. They're gonna have to chew for food and clothes. They do not receive the follow-up and through-work they need both in relation to learning how to bow, in relation to coping with schooling and leisure time and in relation to the passing of experiences. So this report came today from the United Nations Children's Committee, and it reinforces the need for immediate action. It may well be that some of the items collected there are improved. Let's hope so! However, according to the single examples that several of us are reporting, there is a need for immediate action. And I want as intimately as I can, ask the Storting to join that proposal, so that the Council of State can follow this up quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e258	It's quite right that it's not just the price we focus on when it comes to receptions, of course a quality standard is specified, which requirements a reception should meet. That's not all that goes on physical things. I think I should openly admit that we in Norway today have many physically poor buildings that are used for asylum recipients, buildings that we would not normally use for that. But there's something we're doing in an emergency situation. When we build up as fast as we've done, we use facilities that otherwise wouldn't necessarily have been used for this. This is due, inter alia, to: also that there was a lot of criticism when we put many of the asylum seekers at high mountain hotels – far away from people – and had a very high standard, but not so good contact. I don't think it's right that it's just in small places we see it's conflict. When I see where there are conflicts related to establishment, it's also in central places, it's in many different places. There may be poor treatment in the process of setting up reception, but it may in itself be a local political debate related to what does not always have the colors and hues that we want it to have. It may be a bit of a matter of fear of alienation and fear of crime associated with asylum recipients. That's why it's important to have a process. When it comes to Sæbø, it is quite right, as Lodve Solholm said, that I have family ties to the place, in the form that my parents-in-law's relatives come from the area and know it well. I fully agree that there is a small place to place an asylum reception. However, I would like to stress that once we have given UDI the authority to establish receipt, and a tender has been made, part of the tender situation is that if you do not follow up the tenders you have received, you will be entitled to compensation. I would therefore not like to say here from the Chair that I can instruct the UDI to say that they should not establish a reception on Sæbø. I guess that's going to be a very good reception. I will promise the representative, Solholm, that I will go in and look at the question. But when we make commercial agreements that someone is going to operate, it's clear that we have limitations on what we do in terms of changing that question. Then to single minor asylum seekers. Yes, I still fully agree that we need to strengthen the work of lone minor asylum seekers. I don't think it's a semblance to make it a child protection issue. In fact, I have seen many young people in the care of children who are both in operation and have major social problems. I don't think that's the answer. The answer is that no matter who is responsible for the municipality, we need better quality. That is why we are working on measures to improve this. We've started working with SOS children's cities, where they're investigating a housing model that gives a closer follow-up. We have strengthened the staffing of some of the sections for the lone minors around, especially those for the young. Action has been taken in the case of single minors, but there is still a job to be done to follow up the measures such as: was recorded in St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001, and some of that, we are moving fairly quickly into an action plan that we are working on, related to youth and integration into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e269	It seems necessary to take a little round on a comment that came from Per Sandberg in relation to the fact that I had mentioned the number 15 000 in my post. The 15 000 refer to the number that came here in 2001. What I didn't say was that of that, 40 pst. asylum seekers with manifestly groundless asylum applications and shall be sent out promptly. In addition, there is also a certain number of asylum seekers with groundless applications who are likely to be rejected and who will also have to return. We are probably down to 7 000-8 000 asylum seekers to be settled. There are many, and there are still major challenges. Today's situation is challenging, and it doesn't seem to be an immediate solution to it. When we believe that this should be the responsibility of the State and that it should not be voluntary for the municipalities, it is because it is so important to make asylum seekers live in the municipalities, so that they are quickly integrated. It's about training. We've been talking all day about how important it is to get Norwegian knowledge and social skills, about how important it is to get out of work, be among colleagues and learn Norwegian in that way, get kids into kindergarten and school, so that they live in an inclusive environment, and get both adults and children into cultural activities in the local environment. These assumptions are best met by the fact that the State continues to take this job. And there is nothing in the world situation today that suggests that we are going to face a smaller number of asylum seekers, as far as I can see. I have good faith that with the work our government is doing in this field, with the tighter organization and the improved routines, with the contact and action in relation to foreign stations and police, we are gradually able to handle this better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e278	It is possible that I was a little unclear in my comment to the Right Representative. We're all aware that the number of people who stay varies from 35 pst. to 50 pst. But when the representative from the Right in a way suggests that there were only 6,000 people who stayed in 2001, I would like to briefly refer to the UDI report: Last year there were 5,906 people who were protected, 18,486 people were given a work permit, and 12,095 people were granted a residence permit on the basis of family reunification. So the number from last year on those who settled in Norway is almost 20,000. And it's clear that if we look at the prognosis this year that the asylum flow is 18 000 – in the media today it was said 20 000 – and if you're going to count that 40 pst. Of these, it is quick to calculate the number of people who are subsequently allowed to stay in Norway. My point is that I see that there are major conflicts around the municipalities when you have to establish receptions and housing for all these people who are staying. All of us must realize that the more people who are to be settled in the municipalities, the more resources and competences the municipalities need – that must be a logical explanation. I guess no one can be an opponent of realizing that. That's what was my point. Then it is clear, as I said in my previous post, that after Bondevik I took over in 1997, there were less than 3,000 asylum seekers in Norway. Since then, the curve has gone straight to the weather. This was because the first Bondevik I declaration in its time, in 1997, was that the doors should be opened and that immigration policy should be liberalised. That's what we see the result of now, the advertisement that Bondevik had at the time, and that the new government, with the Right in the head, is now continuing. That is a logical explanation that we have the great influx of asylum into Norway, while the other countries around us are tightening up, of course. And then Schengen has contributed to a large part of this too, but I don't think that's the whole explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e290	Magnhild Melting Band Kleppa has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e294	In a letter from KS to the Council of State in January, it was written that the establishment of asylum recipients is a work in which a person should be wary of putting out competition. They indicate that all the tasks are imposed on the municipalities, and they say that they should have the possibility of driving the asylum recipient. There will also be a more efficient use of resources. If the municipalities themselves do not want to operate, better cooperation between the UDI as an operator and the municipalities must be ensured and full coverage of the costs of the residents of the asylum facility must be ensured. Now the Storting provides support for better processes today. It also states that the State should initially bear all the costs. I want to encourage the Council of State to look at the very launching of competition, i.e. the principle of supply, in order to ensure better processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e301	I thought the Council of State in many ways gave a positive answer, and it gave me hope that we might be able to make sense. I see that the Council of State has a point in terms of supply and, where appropriate, liability. But I'm overconfident that when the council says she is willing to look at the matter again, take a new conversation with the UDI, and that one then takes a little consideration of both the villagers and what the municipality has said, I have good faith in it. Furthermore, I also registered that the Labour Party has supported the intention of the proposal that an asylum-seeker should not be established on Sæbø. So, at least so far a large minority wants the Council of State to look at this. And, as I said, I take it so positively that we make our proposal no. 4 on transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e310	Then the representative, Mr Solholm, made the proposed proposal, No. 4, turn to a transmission proposal, and the wording will be changed to: ‘The Order of the Government’, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e313	Just two brief comments, one to Per Sandberg's representative. It is often tempting to look for domestic explanations of why things happen. I want to say that if it was the Norwegian rules and the Norwegian political debate that were the basis of the great influx we had in that particular period, you might be able to control it a little bit against what has happened in other countries. I mentioned earlier today that in France, the number of asylum seekers in the same period has increased from just over 10 000 to 100 000. And it's not because they treat them neatly or that they have very good arrangements or things like that. There's also a great movement of people, and they have a long trial period. So even if you're going to look for Norwegian policy explanations about things, it might be part of the big movements that make us get the big inflow. I hope that there will be less unrest in our neighbourhoods in the future. It will be the biggest contribution to bringing down the asylum arrivals to Norway, and at the same time we will be sent the clear signal to all those who do not have a reason to escape from their country, that living in Norway on an asylum reception is not something you can do for a year or two, and then come back to your home country, and you have had it quite well during this period and have really just traveled for the purpose of the trip. I think we might be a little bit more open that things have their explanations outside of our little spirit, and not least outside our little policy discussion in these areas, more than in relation to the different games between the parties. The second point is the relationship with the tendering legislation. I believe it is right that we put the establishment of reception on offer. I think it is important that we work on further developing the regulatory framework and the framework around it, that we have experience, for example. as regards the requirements for which contact we should have with the municipalities. But I think we would have got exactly the same job from the municipalities if we had not used a tender, but we used the old offer system that was before. In fact, in the previous rounds where asylum recipients were also established, the then municipal ministers were criticised because things went too fast. The municipalities did not get involved in the processes. So this is a familiar problem from every time you've built up reception. Another well - known problem is that every time you build them down, the criticism comes from the same places that you build them down, because then you lose jobs that have been intruded to some places. I think this has something to do with pace and process more than it has to do with the tender system. And the pace and process come from that when there first comes a stream of asylum seekers, they're going to live somewhere. There are no other areas in this country that are not a municipality than the foreign embassies. All other land in Norway is part of a municipality. And that means that asylum recipients must be located in a Norwegian municipality. I do not fully understand where I would place them if I were to wait for the municipalities to say yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e330	Is it such that Heikki Holmås asked for the word? - Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e333	I actually thought I had been drawn before, so I asked for the word. I asked for the word for three reasons. Firstly, I would like to comment on this with the quality that was taken up by Lodve Solholm. We had a comment in the Committee on Quality – by strengthening the supervision of asylum recipients, it is precisely ensured that the asylum recipients operating are of good quality. And that is important, both in the context of the entire tendering procedure and it is not least important for the people who are going to live in the reception. It wasn't the Progress Party. They didn't think that was important then, but we think it's great that they think it's important now. The second thing I wanted to point out is about tenders. In the context of the notification and the major work on the conversion of the public sector, there is one thing Norman has had as his mantra, and that is with total cost assessments. The whole point of a total cost assessment is to look at the total cost of a reorganisation. When you reorganize the state to say OK, okay, now we're going to go away from an offer scheme to the municipalities when it comes to e.g. asylum recipients, and look at how much this offer actually costs the State – how much does this offer cost us now, because UDI really? – of course you also have to count on the costs incurred by the municipality. In some places where it may be cheap to operate the reception itself, it may be expensive for the municipality to provide a proper health care, kindergarten, interpreting services and all this other stuff that Meltvej Kleppa brought up earlier, while elsewhere, where it may be a little more expensive to run and you can't get into a bidding competition, you can still have a saving for society as a whole, and for the public as a whole, because the other services are cheaper. I would therefore like to ask: has the Council of State been given a proper total cost scheme to ensure that we have good decisions in relation to these tenders? In the end, I just want to say one thing, because I totally agree with what the Council said about things happening in the rest of the world, that counts. So now the biggest increase in the number of asylum seekers who actually stayed in Norway after the Bondevik I government came as a result of the war in Kosovo, and it is hardly due to Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e342	I just want to answer the question of total cost assessment. We have not made any special assessment of the total costs related to the tender question. We have to remember that we are going from a system where it was also offered by private providers. It's been a while since the municipalities were running. It was in connection with the war in Bosnia that many municipalities ran some asylum receptions, and then they were built. During the next conversion phase, there have been either commercial operators or non-governmental organisations, i.e. large organisations, who have run reception in Norway. One has gone from a situation where one had the opportunity to offer a tender, but not specified one. In fact, what was important for the bulk of the population last year was that there should be a bid with a transactional system related to it; it should not just be so that you could get offers from different actors. Municipalities have never had a right to veto municipal costs. In 2000, a review of the average cost of establishing and operating a reception in one year was carried out. The level of costs was then compared to the technical calculations. That's the calculation system that we now have in terms of what we're going to cover. We have to adjust for that at regular intervals, but it can be individual municipalities that have greater problems with this, I see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[See page 2351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e362	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. This really means that if everyone takes full advantage of this, we're going to have a three-hour period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e375	Let me just begin by saying that the committee has entered into a gentleman's agreement, and we're probably going to bother the state council only with lines, if it can help a little bit at all. Yes, then it is final time to debate the evaluation of the cash support. This evaluation was notified by the Bondevik I Government in the introduction of the cash support reform. Cash support was introduced on 1 August 1998. This has probably been the most debated case, and the cash support money is well those who soon have a record of being used up, over and over again, for all the good purposes of the world, by its opponents. The evaluation was presented by the previous government and is a so-called superior that the Cooperation Government was allowed to remain in Stortinget. We in the Christian People's Party were excited when the previous government came up with this evaluation. Would the Workers' Party take a rematch? The resistance was great. Would one take seriously that this was a reform that had come to be, and thus make changes on some points that at least we had received feedback on? We were, as I said, excited, and when the Workers' Party and the then State Council, Bekkemelm Orheim, just sat quietly and didn't do anything, the wonder was great. The evaluation that came to Stortinget was a message without a single change. When we know that this has been the case that the opponents have spent the most energy against, it didn't matter less. The hope that the opponents would be responsible and really go into the evaluation did not come to pass. The wonder about this might not have been the same. As I said, this evaluation was ordered by us who were champions in order for young children’s parents to make their own choices right from the start. The reason is that this case is not a matter of principle in itself. We in the Christian People's Party are very concerned that when we introduce such a new order, it is important to see whether it works as intended. Unintentional effects may also arise during the experience of the reform, which should lead to adjustments. The evaluation is based on several reports: the Statistical Centre has carried out two broad surveys, in 1998 and 1999, among families with pre-school children on child care, working hours, work relations, work sharing at home, attitudes to different welfare measures for families with young children and planned adaptation to a possible cash support scheme. The Norwegian Research Council has organised the implementation of the evaluation. They were to focus in their review on the following areas: impact on the labour market, on gender equality, on the kindergarten sector and on children with special needs, including the situation of minorities. In addition, there have been many projects that have gone into special areas to identify the impact and impact of the cash support. I can mention a few examples of particularly interested people: ‘A drop, but in what sea?’ by Hanne Cecilie Kavli, who looks at the impact on kindergarten use among ethnic minorities. Sten-Erik Clausen has conducted a study entitled Cash Support among Child Restraints. In the text of the message, the President may find all these projects listed. An evaluation is to check whether the purpose of a reform is met. I can immediately say that before we have a full coverage of the needs of kindergartens, the goal of the Christian People's Party with the cash support is not met, namely the freedom to choose the form of care for your own children. It is very easy to see that the evaluation shows that this is a very successful reform, measured against the purpose of the reform. Let me say as state councillor Laila Davøy said yesterday at a kindergarten conference: we do not give up until we have full needs in the kindergarten sector, because then the Christian People's Party's purpose with the cash support will be fully fulfilled. Cash support has been successful. None of the horror images that were painted in the opposition's political discussion have become reality. I'm glad. It's not because I could possibly hope on behalf of my own party, but because I get an incredible amount of feedback that those who use the scheme are very happy to have had the opportunity to take some of their own steps in their own everyday life. I will now review the changes that the Committee has taken a decision on. I mentioned earlier that the evaluation should focus on children with special needs, including the situation of minorities. After today's previous debates on the topic, we know that this is an important topic. We in the Christian People's Party got an early indication that in the teaching of some Norwegian training courses with their own childcare services, there was a certain ‘drop-out’ of women. The reason was that they had to withdraw from the cash support. It was an unintended and unfortunate effect of the reform. That's why this was one thing that we wanted to look at. Norwegian training is an important factor in an integration process. Perhaps Norwegian mother training is particularly important. They can be important in the integration process of children. In addition, a meeting with a possible childcare service may be a way for minority women to become acquainted with and provide security for the possible further use of such a service if the family so wishes. That's why it was important to us in the Christian People's Party and the Right and happy that we, together with other parties – all except the Advance Party – got a majority in order to find a solution to this issue. The Committee does not detail how this is to be done in practice, but asks the Ministry to find an appropriate mechanism. There is no change in the use of kindergarten by minorities compared to self-care of own children in the evaluation. The introduction of cash support has not led to the withdrawal of older siblings from kindergarten due to the use of cash support for smaller siblings. It is important for me to stress that for our new countrymen, in line with everyone else, there is a need to be able and have the right to choose their own care solutions. This freedom of choice is important for all young children’s parents. A majority of the Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party have also addressed the issue of residence in kindergarten and the proportion of cash support paid. Let me just briefly refer to, because it's complicated to go into the details of this: we just want to establish that a cash support day is going to be a kindergarten day. Those who know the issue will understand what the committee means by these words. But now I come to a point that I think it is sad that we have not yet received a majority vote. This applies to the situation of adoptive parents. I am pleased with the signals I have received that it does not mean that everyone has concluded negatively, but that one will decide on the matter when it comes to Stortinget. We want it to be an opportunity for adoptive parents to use a two-year period of cash support. Their children come to Norway later than the children who are born here. The adoption associations stressed during the Committee’s consultation that additional cash support was needed. They will limit it to two years and that it will be under pre-school age. We hope that the Storting will decide on the matter when it is on the table. I remember the intense debate about mothers versus fathers before and after the introduction of cash support. Someone tried to say – and I choose to say well-meaning: Here, Dagrund, you are tricked by the gray men in dark dresses. This was part of their secret plan to keep us women from social participation. It is possible that they were used to supposing that women were easily deceived, but I can assure the President and all other external advisers that I am neither tricked nor easily deceived. There must be more than one gray man in dark dress to influence me. My attitude is, in addition to supporting the principle of equal transfers, an answer to the challenges my peers are struggling with, namely the ability to find flexible, self-chosen solutions. Parents won't hurt their own children. They cross their children's needs very high. For a good part, this was an answer that gave good opportunities for your own choice. It is an important matter for us to get more fathers to make use of the scheme. On average, there were 4 pst during the evaluation. which used the scheme, but I think it is interesting that the study showed that Oslo was an exception. There it was 8 pst. used by the scheme, i.e. a double. In the past, the trend in changes in family patterns has often occurred first in the capital and is spreading to others in the districts. That's not all I think it's positive to be influenced by the capital, but this flow is welcome. [[The President coughs.]] After falling into the world of detail, I will now conclude by taking a summary overview: I record that the evaluation does not show that there is a need for the major changes in the cash support. The evaluation shows that the objectives of the scheme – more time, greater freedom of choice and justice in transfers to families with young children – have been set. I am glad that with this we can see that our project, to give young children's parents freedom of choice, is successful. I therefore recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e420	The President must first be sorry for the coughing. The president hopes it wasn't too disturbing. Secondly, the President must say that it was good that the representative did not refer to ‘a gray man in grey’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e425	The purpose of the cash support scheme was to give small children’s parents more time to their children, to contribute to greater freedom of choice and to the equality of state transfers. That's what's been evaluated. The evaluation has looked at the impact of the scheme on employment, employment and gender equality and has looked at the impact on the kindergarten sector and on vulnerable children. In addition, the economic allocation effects of the cash support have been analysed. A main conclusion is that cash support has had little effect on parents’ behaviour in relation to choice of care and participation. In conclusion, the Research Council writes: ‘One of the most interesting questions to answer is precisely why the effects of such a scheme have become so much less than assumed in advance.’ For Mother, there has been a little more time for the children — a place between one and two hours a week — but the fathers do not spend any more time with the children. In relation to freedom of choice, the scheme has given greater freedom of action to those who do not require kindergarten space, less to those who demand it. Nevertheless, there are no more people who choose to just be home with their children. It is difficult to see that the scheme has been remedied by the family's attitude that kindergarten is, if possible, the first choice when supervising the child outside the home. The principle of equality – in relation to equal state transfers – is fulfilled. One might say to some extent that the cash support has an economic distribution profile, in the sense that the families receiving cash support have on average less income than the families using kindergarten. But in the long term, a semented gender role pattern could lead to greater economic differences. This may apply both to families with children after the early stages and, for example, to children. in the case of women who do not work out in relation to their working life, with entitlements such as sick pay and pension points, in the same way as those who work. Cash support is not part of the Labour Party's family policy. The evaluation has shown that the scheme has not led to substantial changes in the adaptations of small children’s families. The family policy of the Labour Party is based on the need to organise good care for children, while at the same time enabling parents to combine parental and professional roles through equal parenthood and active public organisation. We want parental rights in terms of leave and access to flexibility in work, especially in the period when children are small. Furthermore, we want a labour market policy where reward systems and culture in the workplace do not counteract parenthood and family life, a labour policy that emphasises the ability of men to increase their participation in relation to children and families, and a childcare policy that focuses on full needs and cheaper childcare for those who need it. Last but not least: we want a gender equality policy that promotes equal opportunities for women and men to take advantage of their education, which gives both sexes the same conditions for lifelong learning, for development and transition in working life. In this way, the aim is to enable the greatest possible number of families to combine both parents' professional life with family life in a good way, both for children and parents. Cash support is in violation of the Labour Party's policy in this area. The cash support seems to have contributed to the emergency stop in the nursery for the children of cash support age. Lack of childcare facilities also results in a lack of the best prevention measures available to the public to vulnerable children in this age group. It should be a matter of great concern to the rapporteur, because it concerns the Labour Party. For these children, kindergarten is actually the only place they feel secure. When the government of Stoltenberg presented the results of the evaluation, no changes were proposed to the scheme. But I would like to stress that even if you did not, we will not rule out that the Workers' Party will come back to any changes in the cash support in budgetary terms. I understand what the rapporteur says, that there is a need for some tension in the Christian People's Party, and if the Workers' Party can help to give the Christian People's Party some tension in everyday life, we would like to do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e452	After all, the cash support has given more freedom of choice, and it has given more time back to the family. One to two hours more time for children and parents you like to flirt with, but I think it's actually quite a lot. As regards women and retirement, I would like to remind the employee party representative of the pension scheme for mothers who are at home with children. They have the opportunity to earn three pension points a year, which corresponds to an annual income of approximately EUR 10 million. NOK 200,000. This scheme is valid until the child is seven years old. Having said that, I would like to stress that for the Right, it is important that a family policy is put in place that gives all parents real freedom to choose care solutions for their children. Therefore, we believe that cash support is a valuable contribution, and it is worth noting that 76.6 pst. by children aged one to three years in this country have been subject to the cash support scheme. We can see that it is a popular system. In the period from 1998, when cash support was introduced, until spring 2001, a broad evaluation of this scheme has been carried out. This big message we are dealing with today is a result. The cash support evaluation available shows that almost two thirds of the children of those receiving cash support are mainly cared for by one of the parents. One-third of those who work at home with cash support said that there was cash support that enabled this choice to be realised. This underlines, inter alia: the left-hand horror vision of cash support has not enabled. Cash support gives freedom of choice and flexibility and makes everyday life easier for a lot of people. A prerequisite for increased freedom of choice and equal opportunities for young children’s parents is that families of children have the financial resources to choose the form of care, while offering more and more affordable childcare facilities. One of the projects in the evaluation was to have an impact on gender equality. It is interesting to note that the cash support has not led to major changes in parental employment adjustments, and several mothers have not been particularly home on a full-time basis. This means that the scheme in isolation has had little impact on gender equality development, as the Research Council’s evaluation report also concludes. With regard to the evaluation of the impact of cash support on integration policy objectives, I think it is important to stress that in a multicultural and modern society, we need to ensure that we have future-oriented care solutions for all parents and children. However, it is not to be overlooked that minority women who have small children and who need childcare to participate in Norwegian training have a problem with today’s cash support scheme. During the committee hearings, it was found that there was a lack of Norwegian training courses for minority women with children of cash-assisted age. This unfortunate effect of cash support wants the cooperation parties to do something about it. It is therefore gratifying that a majority in the Committee is in favour of the Ministry looking at a system that may be appropriate to address this issue. With regard to the impact of cash support on minority children, we have shown that parents with a minority background chose different supervisory arrangements for their children before the introduction of the cash support scheme. We know that the threshold for selecting kindergarten for many of these was high, and there are different reasons for that. One reason is that when one of the parents is at home, they have less need of child care. Another reason is that they have little understanding that preschool services have educational value. And not least, there is little differentiated kindergarten provision. We know that 80 pst. of kindergarten places are full-time places, and this means that the choice for many parents will be either to have children at home all day or to send them to a full-day nursery. In such a situation, the choice for many parents, not least those with a minority background, is to have children at home. So here you just need a more differentiated kindergarten offer. Studies from Oslo, where approx. 40 pst. in children with a minority background, these children usually start in kindergarten only between 4 and 5 years of age. This confirms that our assumption that an introduction of cash support for 1- and 2-year-olds would have a small impact on kindergarten demand in families with a minority background was correct. To facilitate the combination of kindergarten and cash support, the Stortinget decided in 1999 to divide the cash support into five instalments, based on the five days of the week. Up to and including 8 hours in kindergarten would be up to 80 pst. cash support. Up to 16 hours had to be 60 pst. etc. But it turns out this hasn't worked completely. This is due, inter alia, to: kindergartens with an opening time from 8 to 17 define kindergarten day to 9 hours, and not 8. Thus, one day in the nursery leads to the loss of cash support for two days. We believe that this is unfair. A kindergarten day shall be equal to a cash support day. We therefore assume that the department will make an improvement in being able to combine part-time work in kindergarten with cash support. I would like to make it clear that for the Right there is no choice between cash support or kindergarten. In contrast to the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, we want both parts, so that young children's parents have different care options to choose from. We will bet on continued kindergarten expansion. I refer to the co-operation administration's great effort in this area, and among other things. the new financing model for kindergartens with which the Minister for Family Affairs is currently working, which means that all funds are collected in a pot which then goes directly to the individual nursery, regardless of whether it is a private or public nursery. This will help to ensure a level playing field for municipal and private kindergartens, a more diverse offer in line with the different needs of families, and not least more kindergartens and lower parental payments in the long term. I think this will help meet the needs of a lot of parents. But the advantage of a cash support scheme in addition will be that the nursery queue becomes real, by giving everyone who wants other solutions the financial opportunity to choose. Finally, I would like to remind you that we politicians should not force children's families into A4 solutions. Our task should be to give parents the opportunity to arrange their everyday life in the way that best suits their family. We view cash support as an important step towards a society where one puts parents and children in the centre, where parents make choices, and they can tailor the measures that best suit them, based on their everyday life and life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e482	It is very gratifying to see that the intention of the cash support has been fulfilled. In fact, cash support has enabled a number of families to make real choices in relation to having more time with their children. Now the Progress Party would really go a lot further and give parents this freedom of choice until the children started school. Unfortunately, the time is not ripe for this yet among the other parties, but it will come in a while, when the process of maturation has had time to work, as we have seen with a number of other proposals the Progress Party has promoted over the years. Back to the cash support. The Labour Party repeatedly stresses that this is not part of their family policy and therefore manages to withdraw what may be negative from the evaluation. When they use the argument that the cash support affects the mothers' behaviour in relation to the working life, but not the fathers' behaviour, and that this is negative, I get quite provoked. In fact, no one else has made these choices than the parents themselves, and maybe it's the way mothers need and want to be more with their children for the second and third years. It is, as I said, the parents' own choice, and I believe that the Workers' Party should also respect the individual's choice. Regardless of who spends the most time with the child, the child benefits from this scheme. It is quite typical that the Workers' Party still believes that all children have the best in kindergarten, where unity and solidarity are taught from the lead stage. It seems that the Workers' Party has completely forgotten that all children are individuals, and that perhaps for some children it is to be surrounded by its own family, where individual qualities can be developed in safe forms, the best basis for a good adult life. The progress party has faith in the family, and that parents make the best choices for their children. But as soon as we talk about cash support, for the Workers' Party, it's a threat to equal pay, equality and adult development. I thought in my naivety that the cash support was available for the children, for their development and to create a safe foundation for these on the parental premises and not on the politicians. So to this with immigrant women who are not allowed to complete their Norwegian training because there will be withdrawals of the cash support from child care. This is a completely different issue for the Progress Party and a completely different one. Clearly, it is important that immigrant women teach Norwegian, but as we see it, this should be done by introducing compulsory Norwegian education as soon as an immigrant has been allowed to stay in Norway, and that is to a large extent on the stairs and comes to voting later today. That a special group should receive special treatment in the case of cash support, the Progress Party considers very unfortunate. It can also be understood that as soon as this becomes a practice, a number of others will be on the barricades, for example. unemployed and single dependants taking courses imposed by Aetat. For the Progress Party, it is important that the cash support and the subscriptions to it be practised in the same way, regardless of where you come from, and the price at which you participate. So now I can refer to the debate earlier today, as it looks as if this issue falls away by itself through the introduction of an introduction price support once you have been given a stay in Norway. Nor does it surprise us that different ethnic groups choose different supervisory arrangements for their children. Those who are startled by the fact that far more parents with ethnic minority backgrounds than ethnic Nordics prioritize being at home with their children are the ones who have forgotten that we are talking about different cultures. In fact, in very many countries it is still a main task for many women to take care of their families. And I'm ashamed to confess that I think this is all right. What makes some parties think it's a punishment to be at home and take care of their children? What's so terrible about that? The reality of these parties' view of being at home is that they at the same time condemn what their own mothers and grandmothers did. I assume that it is the woman's own choice, and that not everyone is of the opinion that the only rewarding thing is to be out and make money. In fact, you do an incredibly important socio-economic job by being at home with your children, or at least spending more time with your children, regardless of whether you are Norwegian or have a migrant background. With these words, I would also like to say that we agree to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e501	The evaluation of the cash support was notified by the introduction of the cash support, and the purpose of the evaluation was to see whether the cash support has worked as intended. I would like to point out that SV voted against the cash support scheme, and I think we have a completely different view of whether it has been successful or not, than previous speakers. The evaluation has taken into account the impact on employment and the labour market, gender equality, the childcare sector, children with special needs and distribution effects. Most people who receive cash support receive full support. The statistics for 2000 show that this applies to 85 pst. by cash-aided children. It's just 15 pst. that receive partial cash support. I noticed that the cash support has given an hour and a half more time between parents and children. This applies as an average to all those receiving cash support, including those who were already at home. SV believes that the intention of the cash support has not been achieved. When the Progress Party says that children get to be with their family, this particular evaluation shows that there is only 6 pst. of the mothers who are at home full-time, and 11 pst. has reduced working time. 85 pst. receive full support – 6 pst. is home full-time. The cash support has led to a negative trend in equality between mothers and fathers of young children, the participation of young children’s parents in work and the use of kindergartens. We are concerned that mothers in particular employed in the health and social sector are working less. The health and social sectors, the school sector and the nursery sector are sectors with a high shortage of skilled labour. It is also a feature of the development that cash support leads to more part-time and less full-time work for women. This does not appear to be a desirable development, as it enumerates women as low-paid, poorly linked to working life and poorer opportunities to earn equivalent pensions as men. The survey shows that the mothers have adapted their work in the form of reduced working hours. It has been claimed that there is an unused care potential among fathers. The cash support does not mobilise for this. What I have experience, which has worked with families in the start-up phase, is that dad works overtime to get the economy to stretch to. It becomes like in my own childhood, where Mother was at home, while Dad worked twice and was absent. The Socialist Left Party believes that our proposal with a maximum price in kindergarten of NOK 1500, the statutory entitlement to kindergarten and the six-hour trial gives greater freedom of choice, and it also gives both parents more time with children. Providing both parents with more time with children is also an important instrument in the development of gender equality, and the gender equality law is due to be discussed later today. I have recorded that the arguments against the maximum price at kindergarten of NOK 1500 are that the demand for nursery places will increase, and that we need to expand kindergarten places before we can give parents a maximum price in kindergarten. This increase has taken place by 2003 at the latest. There are today long waiting lists in some municipalities, while other municipalities have full coverage. We are not going to achieve the goal of full child care coverage by 2003, even with cash support, but this cannot be used as an argument against a kindergarten price that will allow parents who do not have the money to choose what is perhaps the best solution for their child and for them. I've never heard this political argument before in my entire political life, and I've been a politician for quite a while. For example, no one says that no one can get sick home because we don't have coverage for everyone, or that no one can get cheap housing because we don't have enough cheap homes for anyone who wants it. Cash support was introduced overnight without considering all the negative consequences, such as: that women in nursing care, which we then need in this country, lose NOK 6 500 to work in the care of the elderly when they choose to have their child in the nursery. The maximum pediatric price cannot be argued against when talking about freedom of choice, integration and the importance of Norwegian knowledge. This is a good tool for many families with children and their children, and a good labour market measure to recruit women for work, on which this society depends. Today, cash support is largely used for the payment of the day-old’s mother and other childcare arrangements. This is very unfair for those who choose kindergarten because they think it is the best babysitting service for their child. If one then, as I said, has a children's garden space of NOK 3 500, which is the price in many municipalities, a NOK 6 500 is lost on working in a low-paid job where the staff shortage is high. I believe this is one of the most negative consequences of introducing the cash support. Cash support also means that vulnerable children and children with a minority background do not receive childcare services because many parents cannot afford not to receive cash support. Kindergarten services provide care to these children alongside their parents and an integration advantage in the Norwegian community. It is also important when we know that those children who have a kindergarten offer get better Norwegian knowledge. This also applies to Norwegian children. Norwegian training is an important factor in the integration process and no arrangements must be made to prevent minority women with young children from taking Norwegian education. There is a clear trend towards this today, because when the children are on childcare while the woman is being taught, cash support is being drawn. The meeting with a childcare service may also be a way to become familiar with the functioning of such a service and may provide security for the possible further use of a kindergarten. This unintended adverse effect of the cash support must be resolved by the Ministry. Even before the introduction of cash support, studies showed that different ethnic groups chose different childcare arrangements for their children. The threshold for minority groups to choose kindergarten for their children is much higher. This has also shown the use of cash support. The proportion of cash beneficiaries is much higher among parents with ethnic minority backgrounds than among parents who are ethnic Nordics. Of course, this is unfortunate when we know that Norwegian pediatrics skills are far better than Norwegian pediatrics. As I have said several times, Norwegian knowledge is important for successful integration, and here is also one of the serious consequences of the cash support. The government's aim is primarily to develop a policy where kindergarten plays an important role as the learning venue, not least in terms of language. I am pleased that the signals in the statement that the development of kindergarten use in families with a minority background must be followed closely in the future. SV has proposed in the 2001 budget that we wish to liquidate the cash support, and we will do the same in the revised budget and next year's budget, because we believe that the intention has not been achieved and that there are many unfortunate consequences. We hope that the other parties in this room will eventually also realize that the maximum price of kindergartens and more flexible working hours for young children's parents, which give both parents the opportunity to be equally together with their children, is for the benefit of families and children, and gives them greater freedom of choice. It is a problem that Dad often has to work more when living with cash support. This is completely incorrect in a gender perspective, and less opportunities for father access and care. In the event of a break-up, this can be negative for father and support under the fact that women are currently receiving more care for the child. I believe that SV's policy of cash support liquidation, the maximum price in kindergarten, more flexible working hours, legal space for kindergarten and full child care provides more freedom of choice and more equality for mother and father as regards the possibility of child care. This, I think, is an important and correct development. We have a lot of life breaks in Norway, and the trend is clear. Fathers with care for children are getting fewer. And the cash support has been involved in sedentating this because it is the mother who reduces her working time, besides that she is also the one who largely takes out the entire leave after birth. This gives women and men different starting points for relationships with children, and it is unfortunate for both parents and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e535	The cash support evaluation shows that the cash support has largely worked after the intention we had when introducing the scheme. Parents have become a more important part of the supervision of one- and two-year-olds in 1999 than in the previous year. For the centre party, it is important that the cash support is targeted, so that it becomes a real possibility for young children’s parents to have more time with their children. However, it is also important that grandchildren have a real opportunity to choose if they want a nursery place for the child, or if they want more time with the child. In my opinion, today’s young children’s parents do not have a real choice as long as there is no full needs coverage in the kindergarten sector. And there's a huge shortage of children's seats. It may also be seen that there is a link between supply or, more precisely, a lack of provision in a nursery place and the use of cash support. Statistics show that the countries with the lowest child care coverage for children between one and three years of age also have the largest use of cash support. As an example, it can be shown that the three counties have less than 30 pst. childcare provision for children aged 1 to 2 years, also peaks the use of cash support. For me, this is a cause for concern, and it's alarming when we talk about freedom of choice for young children's parents. According to the Centre Party’s view, the most important task is now to provide full needs coverage in the kindergarten sector. Only then can we talk about full freedom of choice for young children's parents when it comes to choice of form of care. Flexible childcare facilities are very important, both for children and for parents. The fact that the Ministry now provides for a better adjustment of cash support for the use of part-time space in the nursery is positive, and it will benefit users. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance that open kindergartens can have for example. families with a migrant background, in view of Norwegian training. The centre party supports stimulation of this kind of kindergarten. We also support that the legislation should not contribute to the closure of Norwegian training courses by minority women for economic reasons. I have confidence that the department here will find arrangements that will prevent this. The centre party contributed to the introduction of the current cash support model. But I also want to stress that you have a real choice, you have to have a real choice. And it has one barely as long as one is missing several thousand babysitting places. I would therefore warn against escalating the cash support. Full needs coverage when it comes to kindergarten development, must now be job no.1!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e550	When a reader evaluates the cash support, it is tempting for some of us to start by saying: What did we say! But I think we should let the evaluation speak for itself. The evaluation shows that the scheme has so far not resulted in substantial changes in the adaptations of small children’s families. The effects that can be observed do not necessarily point in the right direction. What was the overall aim of the cash support, namely to make sure that parents had more time with their children, is little to be achieved. I think that with the sum of money used, there would have been other and better ways to achieve that goal. The Labour Party believes that our job as politicians is to provide good care for the children, while at the same time enabling parents to combine the role of parent and work by means of equal parenthood and active public organisation. International and Norwegian experience shows us that an active public policy is needed to achieve this. Families take on the basis of what they think is the best thing for the child to organize their daily life. We have seen that a large majority of parents prefer kindergarten when they think that the child has come to an age where supervision outside the family for a few hours a day is a good thing. It varies between families at what age they want such a supplement to family care, but for many this happens once between the child's one-and-two-year-old. Then combined care solutions, parents and kindergarten are the most sought after. The figures for kindergarten development since the cash support was introduced are not a pleasant reading for parents who still say they will choose kindergarten space for their children if they had had the opportunity to do so, but not least there is little pleasant reading for us politicians who have had high ambitions on behalf of the children and kindergarten. When the cash support was introduced, we knew here in the hall that there were ten thousand children's playgrounds missing so that all parents would have the real choice for which the government parties spoke so hotly. There is little help in making a real choice between taking cash support or not taking cash support if the nursery does not exist, or if the nursery is so expensive that you cannot afford it. When state councillor Valgerd Svarstad Haugland then asked the municipalities to wait and look at the effects of the cash support, the whole expansion stopped. You might say that it is the most visible effect of the cash support. Hopefully, the investment in kindergartens introduced by the Stoltenberg government into the 2002 State budget will lead to increased expansion and lower prices. We had promised that we would reach full child care coverage by the year 2000, but the change in government we received in 1997, the cash support system we received, and the policy of the Bondevik government made it impossible to achieve that goal. As we have seen from the evaluation results, the families perceive the cash support as a mother scheme, and the adaptation that has taken place is taking place on these premises despite a gender-neutral design. This leads to increased disparities between the professional activity of mothers and fathers. The changes are small, but it can be argued that they could accumulate over the life cycle as a whole and counteract what has been achieved in terms of gender equality in working and social life. Three pension points are of little help when those pension funds are so small that the current scheme still makes you the minimum pensioner when you go into retirement. We still have one for the sex-shared labour market. Workplaces have an interest in adapting to the gender they consider to be the main emphasis of their workers and will thus often offer conditions that indirectly counter to non-traditional choices. Similarly, in the case of tasks other than childcare, the division of labour in the home will be affected by women as primary managers when they are at home, and fathers will have to take primary responsibility as dependants. A majority of the Stortinget consisting of five parties has entered into an agreement on the cash support. We'll take note of that. We believe, in principle, that it is wrong to base a public support scheme on the fact that a public welfare offer is not used. Following the Workers' Party's assessment, the funds currently used for cash support could finance a better offer to children and to young children's parents than the cash support scheme does, and give parents a real choice as to what they would do. In the end, the working party does not regard the cash support as sacred, and even if we do not now agree to liquidation or changes in the arrangement, we will continue to reserve the right to make any changes in the cash support in the later budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e576	The cash support scheme was introduced in the autumn of 1998 and has been in full operation since January 1999, when both one-year-olds and two-year-olds were entitled to cash support. In the three years, 1999, 2000 and 2001, as many as three quarters of the one- and two-year-olds received cash support each year. The high number of people who choose and receive cash support shows that this is a reform that is important for very many families with young children. The objectives of more time, greater freedom of choice and more justice were met. Cash support has come to stay. I think it is a pleasure to note that there is still a majority of the cash support in Stortinget. We need kindergartens, but families also need the freedom to choose other solutions. Cash support helps meet a variety of needs. But freedom of choice is not good enough until everyone who wants it can get a full or part-time seat in the kindergarten at an affordable price, as several speakers have also pointed out. We are actively working for this. When cash support was introduced, many were sceptical about the unintended and unfortunate effects the scheme could have. A broad evaluation of the scheme was therefore initiated. The central statistical agency conducted two large surveys in young children’s parents, before and after the introduction of cash support. Under the auspices of the Norwegian Research Council, a number of research projects were launched to determine the impact of cash support on equality, the labour market, kindergartens in the districts and for children with special needs. The results of the evaluation show that the cash support has not had the unfortunate effects of any fear. Many major headlines in the fight against cash support proved not to be messed up in reality. The studies have shown that as many as two thirds of the children receiving cash support are mainly cared for by parents. Parents have also had more time with their children. On average, all one- and two-year-olds have had almost two and a half hours more with their parents per year. the week before the introduction of the cash support. But then it's also taken into account the ones that were already at home. This is no small gain when time is such a scarce resource. I believe that this shows that the cash support has fulfilled the intention to give parents a greater opportunity to care for and to get together with their own children. Many were concerned that children's protection, who would have benefited greatly from being in kindergarten, would instead be kept at home. I am particularly pleased that the evaluation has shown that there was no basis for this scepticism as regards the effects on children with child protection. Before the cash support was introduced, it was about 40 pst. by child-restraint children who had kindergarten as an aid measure, and this has not changed since the introduction of the cash support. A recent follow-up study confirms the same. Although I am generally satisfied with the cash support, the arrangement can be improved on some points. I very much agree with several comments made by the Committee. Many people who have part-time space in kindergarten get a lower amount of cash support than they think is right. For example, those who have kindergarten space three days a week expect to receive 40 pst. cash support. Most for instead 20 pst. I want to work to make it easier to combine part-time space in kindergarten with partial cash support. Making this happen will require a change in the Cash Support Act, and it may therefore take some time. Today, too, there are not enough part-time seats in kindergartens for those who want to do so, and we must therefore also work to increase the part-time provision. Immigrant participation in society is an important objective. Being Norwegian is a prerequisite for being able to participate. Some women have their children in kindergarten while they are in Norwegian courses, and they therefore do not receive cash support. I see that it is a problem if several people choose to skip the Norwegian course in order not to lose the cash support, and we are working to find a solution to this. Several departments have to work together here. I also understand that many families who adopt small children want a lot of time with the child to give it the best possible security, even if the child is three years old. This will require a change to the Cash Support Act and will need to be further investigated. Cash support covers a need. You don't have to have the same need to enjoy that more needs are being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e603	I would so much like to wish that we had an ideal society where mother and father were kind to their children, that women had a real freedom of choice, and that parents could give the good care that children are entitled to. We should all want to do that. It's not like that, actually. Not all children feel good and have parents who really care for them. I'll ask the Council of State to say a little bit about whether she's worried about these children, who need security and who can't get it at home, but who would actually need some adults to take care of them. Unfortunately, very many of these children have parents who receive cash support instead of leaving their children safe in a nursery. The council said that it was real freedom of choice only when it had become full child care coverage, and that the government is actively working for this. I am happy to hear that, because it is sad to record that the expansion of the kindergartens was stopped abruptly when we introduced the cash support. I wonder how the Council of State thinks we're going to reach full child care coverage within the time that the Storting actually decided. So it sounds provocative. I had an example of an hour and a half more a week. So it's going to be a time with the kids in almost 13 minutes per. day(s) The councils had two and a half hours. It'll be almost 22 minutes. Is the Council satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e612	The representative of the Fall points to a major problem for many children in Norwegian society. It's actually so that not all parents are as kind as their children. Not all children are well. We have a lot of vulnerable children. However, I am happy to note that the cash support as such has not – as I also said in my post – led to changes in kindergarten use for children who are considered to have a special need for nursery facilities. That would happen, probably a lot of us have been worried about. In the case of children with a minority background, children with child protection and children with disabilities, there is no decline in use after the introduction of the cash support. We are also now conducting a new study under the direction of the Statistical Central Bureau, which will provide us with new figures by 2003. There are also important numbers, and the numbers are getting even better when the cash support has been longer. So to the question of how to get full babysitting. Obviously, it's a big challenge, and it's been the last 15 years for different governments. What we have found in this government as the biggest problem has been the lack of the right tools. There has been a great shortage of kindergarten places for the young children in recent years, and we have known about this. Nevertheless, we are not clear – and here I think we may all have to take a responsibility – to find the good tools. The representative is familiar with the Bondevik government's new financing model for kindergartens, which we want to introduce quickly. We think that might be the best tool right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e623	I was in my post saying that one of the negative consequences was that, for example. women in the care profession, who we need in the care of the elderly, etc., lose 6 500 kroner to work and to have their child in the nursery instead of being at home and receiving cash support. Does the Council of State think this is fair? Many of these women actually need to work because we have a housing market that is so expensive that the NOK 3000 to NOK 4000 they have left net, they need to get the economy to go together. I can't believe this can be freedom of choice. Nor can I understand how to defend not to lower the nursery prices, so there are opportunities for these families to choose. Another thing: how will you look at the recruitment bit of a part of the important professions, such as: babysitting and assistants in kindergartens, who earn less than NOK 200000?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e630	It is true that, after the 1998–1999 figures, the mothers have reduced their weekly working hours by one and a half hours. But what I also want to point out is that one does not find more mothers without a work relationship at all as a result of the cash support. This means that some of them have fallen into job breaks, but they still work. Sometimes when we have a debate about the cash support, it would be thought that the cash support was forced on someone. But it won't be. The cash support is a choice the parents take themselves. That has also been the point of the cash support. Although we know that the answer may be that there are many people who choose it because they do not have children's gardening space, there are also other care solutions that many parents choose after receiving cash support, for example. Mother-in-law. I think that when it comes to women and equality and work, there are probably a lot of reasons why there might be women who choose to be at home with cash support, if the family wants you to be home with the children. It's about equal pay and lack of it. Many of us have probably been married to men who serve very well, and in fact, if you choose to be at home with the children, it is often the woman – unfortunately also in these days – who has to be at home for the sake of the family economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e639	State councils are once again talking about price financing and that it is now going directly to the kindergartens and not, as today's system is, to the municipalities. In today's edition of Kommunal Report, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik opens the door for childcare money to go to the municipalities, and ‘not directly from the state to the kindergartens, as the rapporteurs have feared’. This is according to Municipal Report a model outlined by KS. In my opinion, such a scheme will speed up the development of kindergartens by a player with the spokespersons – the municipalities responsible for kindergartens. That's what I mean, and that means the Center Party, is incredibly important. My question to the Council of State is this: does the Council of State support what is coming from the Prime Minister here now? Does the Council of State Davøy also mean that the model outlined by the KS is the road to go, or will the Council of State continue to go in order to finance a single price that will go directly to the kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e650	As far as I remember, it is also stated in the Municipal Report that the Government has not yet concluded on the model itself; it will be presented in the revised national budget. How the money is to be transferred to kindergartens technically, we have not yet taken a decision. Today, the state subsidy goes through the statesmen, and then it goes to the municipality for further payments. So today it's up to the municipalities if they want to spend their own money on the private kindergartens. But the state subsidy should go unabated to the private and municipal kindergartens. Whether we are going to have the same scheme even after a new introduction, we have not yet taken a decision, but the point of the new funding model is that the money is going to the kindergarten. The money we spend on kindergartens is going to kindergartens. And that's exactly what has been the problem today, because the municipalities have been very free to spend money on kindergartens or not. Unfortunately, that is why we have so low babysitting today. We just haven't had the good tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e659	The Christian People’s Party believes that the cash support ‘is a very successful reform’. That's what the representative Dagrun Eriksen said in his opening post. It was supposed to be lacking that the Christian People's Party should say something else – the party that is the mother of the cash support. I say mother, because this is a lot about mother and children. I would like to ask the Christian People's Party and the Council of State if there are no concerns regarding the continuation of the cash support in its current form, when the evaluation confirms only 10 – 15 minutes more concurrence time per. the day with the children – although there is some disagreement in the Christian People's Party, some have said 1 1⁄2 hours per. week, and someone has said two and a half. There we have some disagreement in which I believe the Christian People's Party must clear up. Was it a real wish that only Mom should be at home, and was it a wish from the Christian People's Party that many of the children should not even be with Mom, but with a random day mother? And is it true that you get money for a service you don't use?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e666	I also want to establish, like others from the Christian People's Party, that cash support is a successful reform because it gives more freedom of choice to parents. There are also a lot of people living in municipalities where you have full child care coverage today, who choose the cash support. We have well over 100 municipalities today with full child care coverage, i.e. they have babysitting according to the needs of their parents. Cash support is also paid in these municipalities. It tells me it's a good reform. So I don't have any concerns about continuing the cash support in the form it has, but we're going to make some adjustments. Actually, time's running out. I reread the odelstungsproposition yesterday, and 2 and 1/2 hours is at least the number that says there-- I don't remember exactly the side number. It is clear that it is desirable that even fathers are much more at home with the children. So should I. From this point of view, it was gratifying to hear that in the metropolitan city of Oslo you are seeing a trend where fathers also choose to be at home with their children to a greater extent. We want that too, but as I tried to say in a previous post, there are also other relationships than the cash support that might make it a mother who still has to be the one at home, or that one chooses that it is the mother who is at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e675	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e678	When the cash support scheme was in consultation with the introduction in 1997, it was announced that it would be evaluated from the outset. This work was done and was presented by the government of Stoltenberg. The Labour Party Government has done a thorough job with the evaluation, and what is now known about the consequences of the cash support in different areas has not changed the Workers' Party's resistance to it. We still believe that the cash support violates the basics of the family policy that the Workers' Party stands for. The aim of the Labour Party is to organise good care for children in its family policy, while at the same time making it easier for parents to combine being parents with caring for a job. It is wrong to base a public support scheme on the fact that a public offer is not used. The Workers' Party still wants better leave arrangements with a focus on fathers' rights, and we want, of course, a faster day-care facility than the Government of Bondevik has now signaled. We know that the cash support has created uncertainty in the municipalities and almost stopped planned nursery facilities. Of course, with reductions in the parental payment that all parties want, but with different time perspectives, there will be even greater demand for kindergartens. Whether the parents who today do not want to apply because of the struggle for places, or if several of those who receive cash support choose to apply for a place, remains to be seen. But one thing is certain: if parents have real choice, then the offer of kindergartens must be present. The evaluation also tells us that the intention that parents should have more time with the children has not had the effect that some parties argued for. As long as the scheme is not linked to the fact that father or mother will be at home, we still get approx. 15 minutes more time per day. day to children. It is also worrying that children with a minority background, who so absolutely need to be in kindergarten, are taken out in order for their parents to get this money. These children need to learn the Norwegian language as early as possible to deal with a tough childhood later. The working party believes that almost NOK 3 billion used for the cash support scheme should have been used for other and better actions aimed at children and young people. The cash support has not had a good effect on the work on equality. It may appear that the cash support only affects the behaviour of the mothers in relation to the working life. It turns out it's mainly the mothers who are at home with the children. With this scheme, it was hoped that Dad too would find this attractive, but the cash support has not led to fathers working with small children working less than before. It may be premature to conclude that only mother’s behaviour is affected by cash support, but it is important to be aware of this, so that gender equality objectives are not countered and gender roles nominated. But what has worried me most about the introduction of cash support are the problems and consequences for children with special needs. Fortunately, the families most in need of kindergarten continue to accept this offer from child protection. This childcare facility is preventive child-restraint work and absolutely necessary. With this evaluation of the cash support, we in the Workers' Party cannot see that this is the right way to distribute taxpayers' money. We believe that changes in today's system will be right at some point, and we will, of course, work out models for better ways to spend this money on the benefit of children, young people and parents. For the time being, we note that there is a majority of the cash support scheme in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e705	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing: see page 2352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e721	It is relatively rare for the Foreign Affairs Committee to deal with educational policy issues, but this case has a slightly special history. In Norway’s capital, we have had a French school and a German school for quite many years. These schools have originally been an offer to parents who are respectively French-speaking or German-speaking and who, for various reasons, are staying in Norway for a short or longer time. That is why these schools have also had financial support from the country in question. In recent years, the trend has been more and more towards Norwegian parents making use of these school services, and the reason for this is today. We live in a world where internationalisation is a prominent feature. It is very easy to understand that Norwegian parents can find that it is a good offer to their child that, in addition to the knowledge that all Norwegian schoolchildren will acquire in the basic schooling, they also gain inside confidentiality with the language and culture of another country that such a school offer provides. There is also reason to stress that from the perspective of Norwegian society, this is a gain. Clearly, it is in the interests of Norwegian society that there is a growing proportion of Norwegian children who through their school have gained such familiarity with the language and culture of another country. The French school has had considerable financial problems in recent years and has therefore applied for support under the law on private schools. This matter has taken quite a while in the Norwegian system. This is related to the fact that we have a private school law that imposes two requirements on schools to be approved for support under the private school law. They must be either a religious or life-seeking alternative – it is not this school – or they must be a so-called pedagogical alternative. The Ministry of Education has had major problems interpreting the law to the point that this school comes under the pedagogical option criterion, despite the fact that the school has a marked different structure than the public Norwegian school. In addition, it should be believed that providing training in a different language is a pedagogical alternative to the Norwegian public school. After a long time, a bilateral agreement has finally been negotiated between the French State and the Norwegian State, which meets the need for financial support from the French school in Oslo. It is gratifying that there is an overall committee that is behind and recommends that this agreement be approved, and at the same time specifies that in future matters of this kind should be common educational policy issues, and that it is not reasonable to go such a long and heavy road as an intergovernmental agreement to solve as simple problems as this. For this reason, a joint committee has also pointed out that when the Government comes to the Stortinget with a notified proposal for changes to the law on private schools, the criteria should be designed in such a way that unnecessary problems of interpretation do not arise in the future in order to meet the needs of this case. For this reason, a joint committee has stressed that the agreement to which it gives its agreement should not be understood as being cut off from the school during the next five years for which the agreement applies, to reapply for support under the private school law if this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e734	This is a matter that stems from the time of the Stoltenberg government, and I am pleased that it is now finding its solution. The fact that the case took a disproportionately long time is because neither the department nor the government, it was because the French school has used time to assess how this was to be resolved, and it has also taken time to get an agreement. It is very good if changes in the private school law can lead to the conclusion of these types of agreements without having to go to Stortinget, that practical and good solutions can be found. However, in the same way that the French State provides limited or no support for Norwegian education or schools in France, we also have to ask questions about which schools we should support in Norway. If we had followed the original right-wing arrangement in this case, Norwegian students had received a worse offer than they now have, because now we also get a scheme for Norwegian apprentices in France that offers more opportunities for international experience. It is very nice that Norwegian students can also go to this type of school and learn French, learn French, learn languages, but we must have a system that also ensures that we give everyone an opportunity to learn French and German, these basic languages, also in public schools. As I said, I am very pleased that this matter is now finding its solution, and that any changes in the private school law allow us to make this kind of agreement with other countries on the exchange of students and the exchange of support that will allow far more students and apprentices to gain international experience and the opportunity to learn language and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e743	The President understands that everything is fine. - No, it wasn't quite good. No salary has asked for the floor. - It was an attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e746	It was an honest attempt, sir. President! Almost everything's good. However, I find reason to point out that the content of the post that was now held by the former Minister of Education Giske is actually something quite different from what a unanimous committee has said in the position. I must also be allowed to remind you that I raised this matter as an interpellation in the time when Giske was Minister of Education, and his goodwill was then, to say it carefully, very limited. For his answer it was thought that it might be good that some Norwegian students go to a school like the French School, but they now have the best of going to the general Norwegian Joint School, and therefore he did not consider this to be a priority task. What the Committee has said is not to conclude agreements of this kind in the future. What the Committee has said is that if you get a private school law that has clear criteria, for example. in line with Swedish legislation, schools of this kind will be a category of independent schools which, of course, fall within the public support schemes. It's necessary to clarify. And it was a pleasure for me that the Workers' Party in the Foreign Affairs Committee too joined this principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e757	Trond Giske. “Now, soon, both representatives have spoken twice, so it will be stopped by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e760	That is exactly what I suspected the rapporteur of the case in his first post. If the representative of the Wage believes that the Workers' Party has changed its private school policy through this appointment from the Foreign Affairs Committee, he is mistaken. The policy we have in the field of private school is firm and fully in line with the interpretation we have of the position of this committee. Just so it's clarified in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e767	No salary has asked for the word again. He is the author of the case and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he must have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e770	Privileges are available for use, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e775	Not always.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e778	Let me just to ensure that no doubt is left, allow the representative to read what is written in the unanimous vote of the Committee: ‘The Committee would point out that the present agreement provides the French School with a relatively modest operating grant. The Committee assumes that the agreement does not prevent the French school from applying for approval under this law.» That is a new and revised version of the Private School Act. I hope that there is still communication in the Workers' Party between the different committee fractions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e792	Trond Giske had the word twice and gets the word for a greeting note. To be honest, the President cannot see the value of a continuing debate on this issue tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e795	The premise that this agreement does not prevent the French school from applying for approval under the Private School Act was already in the agreement of the Ministry of Education with the French School and the French State, or the Embassy, when we were in government. Of course, you can apply for approval under the private school law. That doesn't necessarily mean you get that application.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e800	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e816	Inge Wohnung – Vice-Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e819	It is perhaps more right to say that the Vice-President of the Court of Justice, because, in the light of the fact that the rapporteur is not present in the Grand Duchy today, I have promised her, for the sake of order, to present the position of the Committee. I will make it very brief by pointing out that what the committee says in the setting – all except SV, which is behind Document No. The 8-proposal, which naturally addresses its own proposal, is that the Constitution § 26 is very clear on the division of roles between the Government and the Stortinge when it comes to these kinds of issues. In addition, we point out that there is a tradition that, in all cases of scale, the Government provides the Stortinget in an appropriate form a preliminary explanation for which main lines the Government wants to base, and thus the Storting also has the opportunity to make views on this. When the Committee finds no reason to support the proposal, it is because we believe that the state of things is as it should be in this area. There is no need to improve machines that work by changing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e826	From the SV side, we have a lot of understanding of the case-speaker's argument as it appears in the committee's setting. We think it has been done well for all the possibilities that the Stortinget has to be informed in advance of negotiations on trade and investment agreements. We still think that our proposals could be a good addition to these already existing schemes. The background to our proposal is that the Stortinget treats trade agreements negotiated, for example. between EFTA countries and third countries. Last spring, an agreement between EFTA and Mexico was discussed, in the autumn of 2001 Stortinget dealt with an agreement between the Kingdom of Jordan and EFTA, in January we discussed a negotiated agreement on the revision of the EFTA Agreement, etc. When dealing with these matters, Stortinget has been very little involved in pre-empting these negotiations. When the agreements have already been negotiated, it is difficult for the Storting to decide on significant changes to them, one only has to decide for or against. It is therefore desirable to introduce procedures to facilitate consultation of the Stortinge before negotiations to be conducted with other countries. The world has changed. We are now facing a number of new negotiations, both in the EFTA context and within the WTO. Increasing liberalisation of trade in goods and services is more conducive to social development. Drawing the Stortinge even more closely into such negotiations in advance is therefore the intention of the proposal we have presented. I'll deal with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e837	Bjørn Jacobsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. And it's not that the suggestion from SV's Kristin Halvorsen and Bjørn Jacobsen is completely invisible. It just fell out at the end of the setting, but it's on the first page. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e849	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e856	During the debate, 26 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2 – 9, by Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposals No. 10 – 12, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 13 – 22 and 26, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 23 – 25, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 25 is included in the setting. Proposal No. 26 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President shall seek guidance along the way where parties have notified that they will support the proposals in a subsidiary manner. Kari Lise Holmberg – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e881	I will be allowed to make a small explanation of vote. First case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The Labour Party has put forward a good deal of proposals here. Many of the proposals are quite identical to what the Government is working on, some even implement the Government now. We recommend to the Workers' Party to make some of these proposals for transmission proposals. It concerns the proposals Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9. There is no contradiction between us and the Workers' Party in terms of these proposals, but since this is a matter under the Government, we would appreciate it if the Workers' Party could send them. With regard to the Committee's recommendation on the same subject, I would recommend that the parties to the Government vote in favour of I in the proposal for a decision, against II and for III. As far as the other issues are concerned, I would recommend that the government parties support the Committee's recommendation. With regard to the individual proposals that have been put forward during the day, we are voting against all of these, with the exception of proposal No. 5, from Per Sandberg on behalf of Per Roar Bredvold and himself, i.e. the proposal that the government be asked to consider using the defence resources to transport asylum seekers. We are voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e894	Is applicable to all this case No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e897	The individual proposals we are voting against, with the exception of proposal No. 5 from Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e902	What's the point?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e905	Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e910	The President will try to remember this. I assume that the request that came from the government parties will not be followed up. This should have been clarified during the debate instead of during the explanations of vote. Will the Labour Party stand on its proposals? I don't see anyone asking for the word, so I guess so. Proposal No. 26, from the Party of Advancement, is in its form a proposal for transmission, saying: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess and consolidate all responsibilities relating to the integration policy of a department and a minister [[Minister for Integration]] The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There will then be a vote on the minority proposals, and the President will first take up the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for parental responsibility for the implementation and the exposure of gender.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to introduce mandatory health checks each year on pike and young women at risk of genital mutilation.’; Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to increase the penalties for violence and threats against its own family members.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to investigate the possibility of withdrawal of assigned Norwegian citizenship.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a general ban on the marriage of cousins.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to introduce the ability to live and to dispose of own suitable housing for the spouse concerned as a condition for family reunification in Norway with a foreign spouse.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no family reunification be given in Norway for married couples unless both spouses have reached the age of 24’. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no family reunification be granted to foreign spouses in the case of forced marriage.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that there be no payment of child benefit or cash support for children moving out of Norway and the EEA territory.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a comprehensive proposal in the form of a key message for a new integration policy based on the need for immigrants to adapt to and comply with Norwegian laws, regulations, rules, traditions and social norms.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e985	We shall then vote on the proposals from the Socialist Left, first of all on the proposals. 23 and 25. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and consider imposing a prohibition on the marriage of siblings.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a working group to investigate the issue of the introduction of the age limit for family reunification.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1009	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that the marriage is to be carried out only by notary publicus on the basis of today’s civil marriage.’ [[judgment of the Court of First Instance]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1024	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10–12, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide comprehensive funding for the necessary emergency measures as soon as possible, including: foster homes and emergency homes with safety-related human resources in different departments and their training. appraise whether it is appropriate with your own emergency telephone.support to organisations.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to issue a pension scheme for Norwegian nationals who, before the end of 3 years, are different from an unincorporated spouse who has been resident for family reunification by marriage.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an International Department of Child Protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1064	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-8, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the school takes an additional responsibility to inform the students that pregnancy is prohibited.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that clear instructions are given to child protection and social services to assist girls and boys who feel threatened to be married.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to give clear instructions to foreign stations to be restrictive in granting a residence permit if there is any doubt that the marriage will be concluded on a voluntary basis.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the authorities have to discuss forced marriages and the arrangement of arranged marriages with immigrant groups and organisations and to make it clear that oppression of women in the name of culture and religion is not accepted in Norway.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a system whereby both spouses are to be given a mandatory interview before the foreign spouse is granted a residence permit.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the maintenance requirement and the requirement for owner-occupied dwellings be tightened.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that payment of child allowances and cash support is enforced more stringently if, for example, the children are taken out of school in Norway and moved to countries outside the EEA territory for a longer period of time.’ The Progress Party has announced that they wish to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1114	There is a vote on proposal No 9 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to designate at each police district in Norway a person with a special responsibility for family violence who has direct cooperation with crisis centres in the same district.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1129	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose financial penalties in cases where parents illegally detain children from training, such as the withdrawal of child rights.’ The Workers' Party has notified that they subsidiaryly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1152	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against, and – as far as I understood – the government parties were invited to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1171	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote in favour, while the President understood that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1202	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee Per Sandberg has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1217	It concerns proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. After a briefing from the local councillor along the way, I have been made aware that if the Stortinget were to join this proposal so that it was adopted, we would have been in such a situation that the Council of State might have had to break Norwegian law in order to implement the action that is there. This is because in 2001, the Grand Duchy made a legislative change delegating everything relating to the Dublin Convention to the UDI and the Foreign Affairs Department. That is why the Progress Party and the signatories must draw up the proposal, but we obviously expect the Government to make new legislative changes to meet the international obligations of the Dublin Convention, which has been ratified by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1224	The President then perceives that proposal No. 4, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Advance Party, has been withdrawn. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from Per Sandberg and Per Roar Bredvold. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the possibility of using the defence resources for the deportation of asylum seekers who have been definitively refused.’ Here the government parties have announced their support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1245	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a ‘fast paragraph’ into the Foreign Affairs Act so that applications for asylum which are ‘clearly groundless’ are rejected without any right of appeal. Asylum seekers from Member States of the Council of Europe shall be heard immediately at the place of arrival and the decision shall, as a general rule, be taken immediately after the end of the hearing. If this is difficult for practical reasons, the applicant shall remain in custody until the decision is taken.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish the necessary access or authorisation for the foreign authorities to hold specific asylum seekers in receptions with strong restrictions on the freedom of movement or full custody of the recipient until the application has been completed.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of specific asylum recipients organised in order to provide for a strong restriction on the freedom of movement or full detention of asylum seekers for whom such restrictions are imposed by the authorities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1286	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the revised budget to downgrade the year’s budgeted receipt of asylum seekers from 12 000 to 6000.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to intensify the establishment of ‘extended’ closed UDI receivers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1317	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision does not require the Government to initiate private residence tests for asylum seekers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1339	President, it is possible to go back to voting in case no. Two? It went a little fast in the swings when it came to voting on proposal No. 5 under case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I think it was a minor misunderstanding in connection with the explanation of vote from the Right who came before the vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1346	The president doesn't know because someone thinks voting should go the other way, resuming the whole voting. A sufficient number must then say that they have misunderstood and voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1349	I'm gonna stare at Per Sandberg. In the explanation of vote from the Right, the matter was raised. 2 said that the Party of the Cooperative Government would support proposal No. 5, from Per Sandberg and Per Roar Bredvold, and I think something wrong happened during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1358	That's how to understand that the representative Holmberg spoke on behalf of all the government parties when she said they should support this, and then someone has misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1361	It's obvious that the result is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1366	The President understands that too, but first we have to see if the Storting can accept that we vote again. Is there anyone in Stortinget who refuses to vote again? - It's not. Then there is a revoting of proposal No. 5 under case No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of Per Roar Bredvold and himself. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the possibility of using the defence resources for the deportation of asylum seekers who have been definitively refused.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1383	Then everyone's happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1390	During the debate, Mr Sandberg tabled four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals so that Norwegian citizenship is first granted to foreign nationals who have renounced their original citizenship.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals on requirements for marriage and language and knowledge tests before granting Norwegian citizenship.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce requirements for satisfactory knowledge in Norwegian in writing and orally as conditions for obtaining Norwegian citizenship.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the requirement for permanent residence in the State be raised from 7 years to 10 years for the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship and that the residence for the purpose of obtaining Norwegian citizenship only runs from the time a person is granted residence.’; There will be no alternative between these proposals and the Committee's setting. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:58 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1432	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the following:1. Introduce a minimum requirement with regard to Norwegian linguisticity and Norwegian social understanding before imams can practice in Norway.2. Translation and quality assurance of diplomas and certificates at Norwegian foreign stations prior to obtaining a residence permit in Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1461	During the debate, Mr Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian municipalities are not obliged, against its will, to receive asylum seekers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the ‘15-month humanitarian residence rule’, without exception.’ There will be no alternative between these proposals and the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1493	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, No. 3, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal 4, by Per Sandberg on behalf of Lodve Solholm, Harald T. Nesvik and himself Is it, then, that Signe Eye wants the floor for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1511	I would ask that the representatives of the Labour Party vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1516	Proposal No. 4, from Per Sandberg, Lodve Solholm and Harald T. Nesvik, has been converted into transmission proposals and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government stop the establishment of asylum-seekers in Sæbø.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party is then taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider granting the municipalities the final approval responsibility for the establishment of asylum recipients.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1538	I voted wrong. I voted in favour and voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1545	The number of votes to 77 voted against the proposal and 17 voted in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure full financial compensation for the additional costs of such establishment to the municipalities, including transitional arrangements ensuring compensation in the early stages of any closure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1562	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to take immediate action to ensure better follow-up for single minor asylum seekers.’ Here the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1629	During the debate, Mr Jacobsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, addressed the proposal put forward on page 1 of the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the Government to present the starting point for negotiations on trade agreements with other countries and the main negotiating objectives of the Stortinget Government, in order to enable the Storing to deal with these negotiating objectives.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-18-2.ana.ud2642e1659	There is no record.
