ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e49	The representative Anita Apelthun Seal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Hordaland County: Harald Hove For Nordland counties: Tomas Norvoll
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e67	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e72	I'd like to suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e77	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e85	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e88	I am pleased to submit a proposal that Norwegian municipalities should not be required to receive asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e94	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. For its part, the President will draw attention to the fact that, although there may be an evening meeting, it may be possible to finish in the morning. It's possible you have to go a little beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15, but it would make sense if there is little left in Odelsting's meeting. I ask the representatives to pay attention to this when planning the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e110	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e119	The changes in energy laws from 1991 that led to the deregulation of the energy market have resulted in politicians both locally and centrally facing new issues and major challenges in this area. The energy sector has become an international sector, and international companies show great interest in the Norwegian power market. The Committee's work on the review of the organisation and tasks of Statnett SF has focused on: in the following three conditions: 1. that consumers in the whole country will have enough electricity to secure2. that it is well prepared3. the consumer should have as favourable a tariff as possible; Statnett owned 87 pst today. by the central network and is responsible for ensuring that all users, including households, businesses and large industrial groups in all parts of the country are adequately streamed. The majority of the Energy and Environment Committee in Stortinget sees no reason to change the organisation of Statnet as a state entity in a monopoly situation. It means a great deal that such important functions are still under political control. The Christian People's Party's starting point on this matter has been that consumers should be focused. The electricity bill often accounts for a large part of the household expenditure, and for business, electricity prices affect economic performance. Lack of powerlines and other obstacles to transmission must not lead to unnecessary high power costs. Regional power companies have generally good competence, and they are now engaged in natural and compulsory cooperation and interaction with Statennet. The structure of the distribution and regional networks has changed significantly in recent years through mergers, cooperation agreements and acquisitions. Regional companies have grown in size and economies of scale can provide more rational power. The consequence of this is that prices are evening out in the regions. It makes it easier for users to compare prices from different suppliers and to switch power suppliers if customers consider it profitable. The industry reported that between 5 pst. and 10 pst. From time to time, power clients switch suppliers. This tells us that the market is working. The Committee believes that the safety of power supply, maintenance, the social economy and the lowest cost to end-users mean that it should be assessed whether there will be more likely to be one network level than the central network. The Committee is in favour of this being distributed, including what is needed. The Committee has also discussed the network charging, and I am pleased that the Storting should be presented with a case relating to the distribution of transmission and principal aspects of different central network charging models. In a free power market, it is very important that Statnet exercises the system responsibilities imposed on them by energy laws. The state network shall be neutral to all actors and the system to ensure that it is adequately supplied to all interconnection points. It has been in the Committee whether the transformers should be part of the central network. The majority in the Committee believe that transformers should be an important part of the central network. The members of the Right and Christian People's Party of the Committee indicate that the transformers are not currently part of the central network. For the parties, there has not been a decisive who owns the transformers, but the organisation of ownership can cause customers to focus on price and secure power delivery. It is not the purpose of these parties that regional companies should be required to purchase or build transformers. But where it is reasonable, and where the regional companies have resources for it, there may be arguments that regional companies own the transformers. The conditions for the different local and regional companies in Norway vary so much that, in my opinion, there must be room for different solutions. In any case, the responsibility for the power supply shall lie with Statnett, who is the system administrator. With this option, I recommend the default setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e159	The Stoltenberg Government put forward proposals for the organisation of Statnet in its 2002 budget proposal. However, the majority of the Committee wished to examine the matter as a matter of its own. If you now look at the setting that exists, it must be allowed to say that here enough of the committee has overreacted to the need. As the Committee has now set up, it implies that Statnett as a transmission system operator has an extremely important role to play and therefore also needs to be given a robustness adapted to it. The majority of large sizes support Statnet's goal of owning the entire central network and include the transformers. In addition, the entity may have a certain ownership of the regional network if bottlenecks arise. It is now even more important than before that the transmission system operator is given the means to fulfil its role, because the power balance is becoming weaker. State networks shall coordinate the operation and development of the entire power system. This is becoming increasingly challenging as electricity consumption is increasing, while production capacity is largely unchanged. These challenges can be even greater now, as there is a growing lack of clarity about whether and when new power generation can occur in Norway. All the different gas power signals are an example of this. If today's situation continues, we will have a situation where not all power needs can be met. Such a situation will put the transmission system operator to the test, including: because it may need to manage contentious measures such as forced disconnection, rationing, etc. It is therefore important to point out that if we get into such a situation, it will be the government that has the political responsibility for getting there. In a letter to the Committee concerning the Snow White project, the Council of State wrote: ‘Norway currently has a power balance deficit of around 6-7 TWh this year at normal temperatures and rainfall. After many years of low expansion, security of supply has been significantly weakened in dry years. Nor are there any prospects for particularly increased domestic production capacity or significant new import capacity in the coming years.» The real challenges facing the energy market in the future will be to provide enough electricity while having a network that can address the impact. Let me conclude by saying that the Stortinget today provides Statnett with an extended clarification and a good basis for the development of the company towards an exciting time as system administrator. To that it's just to say, Good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e175	The state network today appears to be a significant network owner and currently owns approx. 87 pst. by the central network. We see it as positive that the proportion has increased lately, while, in our opinion, Statnett is increasingly leaving regional networks, so that we get a more holistic structure in the network. In addition to the ownership of the central network, the task of system operator in the Norwegian power system is entrusted to the central network operator and is also responsible for power system planning in the central network. It is essential that Statnet acts in a tidy manner in relation to the roles of system administrator and network owners. In addition, I would like to stress that products used for balancing and system services will continue to be market-based in the future. The consideration of the lowest cost to end-users in addition to the safe supply of power, maintenance and social economy suggests that it is necessary to assess whether one level of network would be most appropriate in addition to the central network. I am pleased that, in any case, the Committee is in favour of having this examined. It is important that we constantly focus on the cost to the consumer, even though central network costs represent a relatively small proportion of the total cost to the end-user. However, I very much welcome the fact that a unanimous committee this time is behind the proposal to ask the Government to investigate and promote the case for the Storting for different models of network charging. I promoted an almost equivalent proposal on behalf of the Progress Party two years ago when dealing with the Energy Communication, but then unfortunately we were all alone. So the world is obviously going forward. So to the User Council. In order to ensure effective transparency for users in the activities of Statnet, a User Council has been established with the participation of the main user groups in the central network, and it is clarified that end-users, and not only energy plants, are also to participate in the User Council. It is important to stress that issues of a competitive strategic nature and issues relating to the internal affairs of Statnet should not be included as part of the work of the User Council. The role of the User Council shall be primarily an important interface between Statnett and its users and contribute to constructive dialogue between the parties. In addition, the User Council should, of course, be an important complement to the monopoly control of the authorities. The User Council shall be advisory to Statnett, but if Statnett takes decisions contrary to the recommendation of the User Council, the majority of the User Council may bring the matter before the Ministry. The Ministry proposes to extend the User Council, to which the Committee subscribes. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that a unanimous committee also supports the participation of the Strategic Network Development Forum (FSN) in the User Council. With this I want to promote the minority proposal in the vote on behalf of the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e192	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e195	Initially, I would like to point out that the purpose of the deregulation of the power market and the division of the old State power into a production company and a distribution company has been to facilitate the provision of cheap and secure electricity to consumers. This perspective is important for the Right and has also been a leader in the treatment we have carried out by Statnett's organisation and tasks. It is true that the network activity in Norway is organised partly on the basis of formal public regulations and partly through ownership and corporate structure as forms of the network. The premises for the overall organisation are provided by energy legislation and also by the regulations of the Energy Act and the decision on the extent of the central network. The company structure of the website has been and is changing. The number of network companies goes down, and a typical feature is that local and regional companies are merged. This, of course, has implications for the technical and economic operation of the networks. These changes have not least consequences for the efficiency under which the power grids are operated. This again means that the solutions that have been adopted in terms of network structure are not necessarily those that are most forward-looking. The power grid may represent the country’s most important infrastructure, and it is therefore very important that framework conditions and regulation are such as to promote a secure and efficient energy supply and to provide signals and incentives in order to achieve a rational and good structure. In order to achieve the objectives of the Energy Act, we should work towards the best possible distinction between power generation and distribution, precisely in order to avoid cross-subsidisation where the network user in an area has to subsidise power generation. This perspective has been used in the review of Statnett's organisation and tasks. It will also be important to ensure the NVE's ability to be an effective competition authority and a monopoly regulator in this market. The majority have clarified that Statnet must act in an orderly manner in the roles of system administrator and system operator. Maybe we should go further and put tighter leadership between Statnett's administrative tasks and the role of networking, but this is something we'll follow closely in the future. Right for its part does not preclude a legal division from being the ideal. We must be aware that the dual role of system administrator and network owners can provide for cross-subsidies at the expense of consumers. Another aspect that I would like to point out is that it is not easy to see the coherence in the effective exercise of system responsibilities and efficient investment. It is a fact that there are bottlenecks in today’s central network due to the lack of investment by Statnet. Such bottlenecks with different price ranges are currently a cost that the power buyer/seller has to pay. In fact, state networks have no incentive to remedy this. The Committee is clear that we welcome a trend towards two levels of networks in Norway. The two lowest levels of network, regional and local networks, often have the same function, and therefore efforts should be made to establish larger regional network areas that should be owned and managed regionally. Greater regional networks will ensure regional competence. They want to secure local jobs. They will ensure a levelling-up of tariffs to users in wider contexts. They will ensure more reliable operation because local knowledge is often essential for overall intervention. Furthermore, they will ensure synergies for operation between local and regional networks and will continue to ensure local regional ownership. With regard to the extent of the central network, it is important that the functional criteria are used for the definition of the central network. A future central network should be networks and facilities linking regions, there should be networks linking the central network with similar cross-border networks, and there must be a network ensuring that all regions are connected to a coherent central network. Of course, there may also be, as is often the case, networks from installations transporting large amounts of energy through one or more regions. With regard to the interconnection points between the central and regional networks and the downgrading of those points, tariffs and the principle of proximity to costs should ensure that the border between the central and regional networks is also raised and that the regional network is responsible for the power exchange in and out of the central network. Today, Statnett owns many of these transformers and, where appropriate, they should be added to regional transmission system companies where they are interested in driving and operating them. In conclusion, I would like to say that when the Right supports the Committee's proposal that the Government should take action and promote the issue of different models of network pricing, particular attention should be paid to the particular competitive situation of our powerful industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e221	Let me start by thanking you for your cooperation with the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party on this matter. It made it easier to get this matter well in port at the end. However, when a hearing of the employee’s representative in relation to the need to increase CO2 emissions in this country by building highly impurityful gas power plants, it is enough in time to facilitate cooperation with others other than the Workers’ Party. Let me also congratulate the ten-year-old on the day. Because I believe Statnett has gained the trust that Stortinget should have in Statnett, through the matter that we are dealing with today. After ten years of business, we have had a review of the potential for improvement and what Statnett we want. SV is particularly pleased that a co-consultant committee does not want to do anything about ownership – unlike what was in time separated, Statkraft, which we are going to come back to. The Minister of Oil and Energy is inexhaustible in relation to what the Christian People's Party now believes, something one was not too short a year ago. But SV has, of course, been able to cooperate on this matter. It may be tempting these days, perhaps also for some politicians, to look at how other private energy companies, among other things. in the United States, has provided income for politicians, but with a disastrous outcome. SV is busy controlling market forces, and then we have to make sure that the people's power is strengthened. Unfortunately, the Sem Declaration states that one has a policy towards more market power. We believe that is a weakness that, not least the Christian People's Party, should be preoccupied with the future. The centre party and SV wanted wording in relation to when someone wanted to sell the underlying network, and we thought that Statnet should have pre-purchase rights. Now it can be Statnett that buys up, but initially it is not a multiple that has now been set up. There is a weakness in SV's opinion. SV, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party ensure that Statnet can get an extension of the central network, even in relation to the transformers. So we do what the Strategic Development Forum wants, we make it easier for Statnet to operate the central network. And it'll be easier, which is an important point for SV, to smooth out the tariffs around the country. It may not be right that it should be NOK 3000 more expensive to buy electricity in the Namskogan than it is in Oslo. So here we are happy that a co-consultant committee joins the proposal from SV this time – it is possible that others have a good proposal on this before, but this time it was SV that promotes it – to get a case on the smoothing of the web-tariff tab. The challenge to the Minister of Oil and Energy is how quickly it can come about such a matter of subsampling. I hope that the Minister of Oil and Energy can come in on this. When does he come up with a case about different online pricing models? It's a proposal that our workmates in the Working Party have not joined, simply to get a proper distribution of three web levels and not go directly to two web levels. Now the text of the note points a little in that direction, but I still want to encourage the parties in the room who do not support this proposal from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV to have their own distribution, to evaluate this proposal during the debate. Finally, the User Council, which the Committee decides to extend, is positive. We think that those that are already overrepresented, EBL, should be the ones that rely on the User Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e240	The Centre Party considers it to be commendable that a thorough review of the organisation and tasks of Statnett has now been carried out. The Committee has provided important guidance on the basis of which further organisation should be based. Power generation takes place primarily in the districts. This is a local resource. The municipalities affected by the expansion are entitled to a legitimate part of the value creation. Therefore, the centre party considers that it is important that the transmission should take into account district considerations. It concerns both ensuring the benefits of power consumption in the vicinity of power generation and balancing transmission tariffs between different areas with different assumptions. The Committee emphasises in its comments that Statnett will concentrate on the tasks of network networking for the central network, but the Committee opens up the possibility for Statnet to own underlying networks. It should only be exceptional. However, the central party also sees the need to assess the future role of Statnett in view of developments on the ownership side of underlying networks. If there is a situation where we can risk large parts of the underlying networks being integrated into foreign companies, the Senterpartie believes that Statnet must be given the opportunity to live on regional and local networks that are offered for sale. This is important in view of the need to ensure national ownership of one of the most important parts of the infrastructure in this country. The proposal to assess whether a single network level is most appropriate in addition to the central network has emerged in the Committee's work. The centre party has agreed to consider this, but we have made clear assumptions in the comments. We believe that a wide-ranging investigation needs to be carried out to show the consequences of reducing from three to two levels of the network. The centre party indicates that there are very many small local e-works around the country, and we are concerned about how such reorganisation affects these small network companies. It is necessary to look at all the pages before any changes are made. The Central Party, together with the SV and the Progress Party, is promoting a proposal for an impact assessment and promoting a separate case in this respect for the Stortinget during 2003. In fact, I would encourage everyone to support this proposal. More knowledge through an impact assessment cannot harm. A joint committee asks for a separate case to be submitted to the Stortinget on different models of online tariffing. The centre party believes it is particularly important that this is taken into account for areas where the power is produced. This was agreed by a broad majority when dealing with the last energy notification. It is tempting for me to quote a little from the setting: ‘The majority will focus on rural considerations in the transmission of power. It concerns both ensuring the benefits of power consumption in the vicinity of power generation and balancing transmission tariffs between areas with different population bases and different geographical conditions. An emphasis is placed on the provision of electricity to residents and businesses with a satisfactory supply quality in all parts of the country.» The main reason for asking for different models of network tariffs to be explored is, of course, that there are too many differences in network rentals from area to area. The last survey of network rental prices shows that they vary between 19 and 42 øre per year. kWh. So big differences cannot be accepted. It is interesting to note that there is the cheapest rental at Røros and in West Telemark, while Tronder Energie was at the top of the price. The conclusion must be: the end-user network needs to be smoothed. We can't get away from the fact that the most important thing is not the different companies, but actually the relationship with the users. The most important thing is to have a safe and stable power supply for the whole country, and in addition, prices must be as equal as possible. The Central Party will point to the important role of Statnett here, and, like the majority of the Committee, believes that the transformers are an important part of the central network. This has to do with the balancing of prices and supply capacity. It also includes a short section on new energy sources and calls on the Committee to be briefed on alternative energy sources. I almost see it as a little glitch from the committee that Enova was not mentioned in this round. There are great expectations of Enova's important work. Stable power supply is important for housing and business throughout the country. For the Central Party, it is important to stress that Statnett has and assumes social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e269	In the opinion, the Committee essentially concludes the review of Statnett SF as outlined in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. For my part, I am pleased with that. As system administrator for the Norwegian power system, Statnett is assigned a very important task. It is therefore important that Statnet be organised in such a way that it contributes to the best possible performance of the tasks assigned to the enterprise for society. I am therefore pleased that the Committee agrees that this is done through a Statenett organised as a transmission system operator, i.e. an organisation where the role of system operator and the role of network owners can be seen in the context. Such close interconnection between system operator and ownership of networks facilitates the implementation of socially viable investments in the central transmission system. An important point in this context is that Statnet should be operated according to socio-economic criteria. I therefore believe that there is now a good basis for Statnett to manage its tasks and future challenges in a good way. It has been stressed that Statnett will concentrate its task as network owners on the central network, but that they may also have limited ownership of underlying networks. Furthermore, ‘neutrality’ is an important keyword for the manner in which Statnet should act. Neutrality is important in the performance of several Statnet tasks, but is particularly important in the exercise of system responsibilities. There is broad political agreement that the central network should continue to be defined on the basis of functional criteria. The central network should therefore remain a nationwide and coherent network and provide a central interchange point in all regions. Furthermore, the central network has an important function in relation to linking the Norwegian power system to other countries’ central networks, thus facilitating a safe and efficient exchange of power with the rest of the world. In addition to the networks currently forming part of the central network, a majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment believes that the transformers between the central and regional networks should be an important part of the central network. This will be followed up as soon as practicable. However, as the Committee has also pointed out, it is important to note that this change to the extent of the central network does not lead to the ownership of the transformers. The change will have a mainly tariff effect. Tariffing of the central network was initially not a theme in the review of the State network as presented by the previous government. However, I see that the Committee has addressed this issue, which has also dominated the debate here today. The Committee points out that Statnett is now reviewing the central network tariff in accordance with the principles set out in the previous decisions on the size of the network and calls for a majority proposal for the Government to investigate and promote a case on different models of network tariffing. We're going to start working on this. Online tariffing is an interesting, but initially also very complex and technically inaccessible theme. I therefore see it as natural that it is the principle and overall models of tariffing in the central network that are now to be presented to the Stortinget, as was also formulated by the case-rapporteur. I expect that there is such an understanding of the Storting. Statnet User Council is an important forum for contact between Statnett and central network users. In St. prp. No 1 it was proposed to extend the Council from five to six persons, so that consumer interests and interests from the power industry are equally represented; The Committee has agreed with the Ministry's proposals on the composition and tasks of the User Council. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the Strategic Network Development Forum should participate in the User Council. I'm assuming that this will lead to a change in the composition of the representatives from the power industry. The Strategic Network Development Forum will therefore take over one of the locations currently held by the Energy Enterprises Association. There have been major structural changes in the Norwegian power sector in recent years, and in the case of network activities, developments are moving towards major regional grid companies and network areas. This is a development I consider to be favourable, and to which the ministry also referred in the review of Statnet in the budget proposal. In many areas of the country, this also leads to a development towards two levels of the network, a development that the Committee has shown a positive attitude towards in its position. I will follow further developments in this area carefully and continuously assess instruments and framework conditions to ensure that it facilitates a continued efficient power system. A secure and stable power supply is an important part of society’s infrastructure and a prerequisite for the well-functioning community and business. Today’s debate shows that there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on the key principles for achieving these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e294	First of all, the tariff question. It is the wish of the majority of the Committee to have an overall character applicable also to underlying networks outside the central network. In a normal year, Norway has a deficit of 6-7 TWh in electricity. In winter, several industrial companies have received shutdown notices if the power consumption becomes too high. The reason for this is that the power exceeds the capacity of the network. The forecasts suggest that if something is not done soon, the situation will deteriorate with accelerating speed. The situation can be improved by the development of new domestic capacity and/or by cables to the rest of the world. However, financial incentives are needed to launch investments. In the case of the Snow White project, which we are about to deal with in a week's time, the Council of State writes to the Committee that energy imports into Norway will lead to an increase in global pollution. This is because marginal production in the northern European power market is mainly coal-fired. My question is: what will the Council of State do to remedy a situation where decoupling and rationalisation are the case, and at the same time a situation that will harm the environment globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e303	I will leave to the President to decide whether to answer any questions that are outside the theme for treatment in the Storting today, which is the online tariff. But let me just say quite briefly, since the development of the Snow White field will be discussed at the beginning of March, more specifically on 7 March, and I by letter to the Committee have answered the questions raised by the Committee in dealing with the matter: in order to ensure the balance of power, which is very important, it must be invested in more than one thing. It is necessary to invest in an increment, in new renewable energy sources, such as biofuels and wind – and Enova is very important – in upgrading existing hydroelectric power plants, both pipelines, turbines, generators and networks, and finally also on power through CO2-free gas power plants. Here we have time for it. In the case of Snow White, the time margins are quite different. This matter I will come back to. So once again on the main track, the treatment of Statnett: to that end, as far as tariffing is concerned, I have, for my part, perceived the Committee's comments so that it relates to the central network, as it emerges from the context, to the activities of Statnett. If it is the case that the Storting wants a wider review of the individual company's tariffs and choices, it is a larger and more comprehensive case. And I would like to remind you that the central network tariff is set in line with the energy law and regulations. The regulation allows the central network tariff to be filed with the NVE and the ministry. Also complaints from PIL, the powerful industry – such as Rolf Terje Klungland and Øyvind Halleraker among others. was inside their posts – will be part of the review I assume Stortinget is interested in. If you want a review of the underlying networks as well, I'll take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e316	I think there are two things that the oil and energy ministers must be very clear about. Now I don't know, because the Halleraker representative was a little useless, about the debt for the cooperation administration, but for the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, there are two things that have been important. The only thing is that when it comes to the distribution of different models of network tariffing, the whole network applies. That's the plurality very clearly. That's what I was consulting on right now. The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the SV have also been very clear when this is the case. That's one point. Then I also thought that the Council of State was a little useless when it came to the transformers. The following are very clearly stated in a plural commentary: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that transformers should be an important part of the central network.’ So, that's desirable. It means a direct invitation to take over several of the transformers. There were two clarifications from the plural. I'd like to challenge the state council here. I am a little uncertain, but I believe that the Steensnæs Council was also the Council of State in 1991, but then the Minister of Education, when the liberalisation of energy laws was signed. It was probably the Center Party that ran through this, but with State Council Steensnæs' help. My question is about the grip that one then did, in relation to what one is now facing, in relation to the fact that the Council of State is certainly in vain when it comes to the privatisation of Statkraft, when one sees that one is clear when it concerns Statknet. I wonder why the two divorces when a co-conspirator says that it is not necessary to look at Statnett's ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e330	When it comes to the question of tariffs, I noticed the clarifications that now came. I'm dealing with what the Storting wants to know. However, in relation to the committee position and also the rapporteur's comment, it could be understood in a different way. So if this is confirmed, I'll of course relate to it. With regard to the issue of Statkraft and Statnett, I would like to remind you once again that it is the case of Statnett that is being treated today. In the case of Statkraft, the Government will provide a statement of ownership, including: ownership of different state enterprises will be treated, including, of course, State power. I also remind you that the Ministry of Ownership, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, with the Minister responsible, are the ones who run the case on behalf of the Government. In the case of the transformers, I believe I was not unclear. On the contrary, I was very clear. I noticed that a majority believe that the transformers are going to be part of the central network. I'll deal with that. As soon as it's practical, I'll implement that change. This will mean a change in tariffs since the costs of operating them and connecting stations will be part of the central network tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e339	“North New” had a look that illustrates one of the aspects of this matter in a simple way early in January this year: while we experience that the Government cuts freight balancing for petrol and freight balancing for fruit and vegetables, to some extent the opposite is the case in terms of network rental. This is because there is still a kind of «fracture smoothing» which is essentially opposite and benefits consumers in the central strata. Suffering if it does not belong in this matter, I must stress that there is no doubt that the Workers' Party was against the removal of cargo smoothing on fuel, and we were against the removal of cargo smoothing on fruit and vegetables. But if we are to maintain the housing pattern, more of the resources created in District Norway must also benefit the people here. When it comes to network rental, the individual consumer may not be talking about so many heads and ears, but it is still an important price tip. So what can we do with this? In the course of the examination of this case, a very concrete proposal for an action was made by several teams, namely what the Council of State has already said, that transformers should be re-entered into the central network, as was the case up to 1998. However, after the 1998 change, there are now several places where the costs of operating the transformer are burdened on the regional network, and are thus distributed among a few users. The introduction of transformers into the central network may lead to a cohesion for all, as the Council of State did, while, in some regions, a relatively significant reduction may occur. I am therefore pleased that a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Center Party, believe that the transformers should be an important part of the central network. I am also pleased that the Council of State was ready, especially in the last reply, to follow this up. Nevertheless, my question is: why could not the Christian People's Party initially participate in this formulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e356	With regard to the issue now raised by the representative, Mr Konglevoll, of the impact of central network charging on regional policy, it is a central and important issue, on which I see that the Committee also has a major role to play when they ask the Ministry to examine this further and come back to the Stortinget on a matter. This central network tariff is essentially a system that provides a common tariff for all customers, irrespective of where they live in the country. Nevertheless, there is an energy element in the central network tariff that provides benefits for consumption in production-related strokes, i.e. positive territorial considerations are taken into account when the withdrawal contributes to the reduction of central network losses. In other words, the places in the country where electricity is produced will be covered by the central network tariff through the energy chain. These conditions and other circumstances will allow you to go into detail and detail for the Storting, so that you can see in detail how this works and, if necessary, have opinions on how to focus further on this. With regard to the question of why the Christian People's Party could not participate in the comment of the majority, I refer to the Labour Party Government, the Stoltenberg Government, which originally presented Appendix IV to the State Budget, which expressed itself, the following: ‘However, in the view of the Ministry, there is no clear and unambiguous conclusion as to whether the transformers should be included in the central network or in the underlying networks.’;» This means that the Workers' Party itself has had a relatively relaxed, relaxed view of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e370	I want to get into this with web levels. The proposal to assess whether a single network level is appropriate in addition to the central network came up, on which the Council of State was involved, during the work on the matter itself, and the Central Party agreed that this should be assessed. But we believe, like others in the committee, that it is important to have a broad assessment where one takes into account all aspects of possibly reducing from three to two levels of the network. Network rental prices vary too much. I repeat that Røro's energy plant and Hålogaland Kraft have 19 cents in grid rental, while Tronder Energy is up to 42 cents. It may be surprising to many that there are not necessarily smaller network companies in the districts that are the most expensive and least efficient. I think this shows that this case is complicated and has a lot of pages. That's why it needs to be carefully looked at. I want to ask the Council of State if he sees on this background the need for a wide-ranging investigation where one illuminates all the aspects of changing this from three to two web levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e379	The network charges are of great interest in Stortinget, which I have clearly registered. I will try to add to a presentation for the Storting where the breadth of this issue is presented, as is now evident from the comments made in the debate. It was not quite clear in the setting, but I now understand the Storting so that they want a broad approach to this. I just want to stress, for my part, that one must not now start to regulate in detail at levels where it will not be natural for the national assembly to engage. It must be the principles and the approach to this, which the representative Mr Enger was also involved in, one must take care of. One has to look at how a policy approach to the design of network charges can ensure that there is a mechanism for the network charge in line with the rural and energy policy objectives that the Stortinget wants to achieve. That matter I want to illuminate in such a way, but there has to be a principle approach to it. I assume that the Storting doesn't want to go down in the technical designs, that's not the Storting's natural workspace. It will also complicate the procedure. So with respect for a clean procedure, I hope that we have a common understanding of how this is going to be done. When it comes to the transition from three to two grid levels, I just want to say for my part that that development is already positive. It is essentially delimited instruments that the Ministry has in its hands to implement this structural change. I think that's a positive change. It is a change that seems rationalizing and is cost-effective, and I believe that the network companies themselves should be allowed to go that process without the Storting swinging over them. Indeed, this development is forced by itself because of increased competition in the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e388	Now I think we're getting closer to what's going to be a conclusion from Stortinget in this case. Let me first give the Minister of Oil and Energy, and also Mr Halleraker, right in saying that it is possible to misunderstand this with net tariffing, as it says. But as I have understood the Minister of Oil and Energy, it is no longer to misunderstand, and then we are some. But it is also important to say that we in Stortinget are not looking to get a piece of detail that we don't have the right to, that also knows the Minister of Oil and Energy, because he himself has our biggest representative. We are not interested in getting information that confuses us. We are interested in getting the information we need to evaluate different online pricing models on all networks. That's what we're after. So the challenge for the oil and energy minister is, when can we get such a thing, not a break of numbers and crucibles that we don't understand, but a matter of political principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e397	It will be as soon as possible. But this particular issue is probably not time-critical in the sense that one does not have time to wait for a thorough treatment in the ministry before one presents it. I also see it as important that one get sorted out the politically important and interesting areas when one presents this. Tariffing is a very complex, complex, subject matter, and I will try to bring a case to the Stortinget that facilitates a good debate in the Storinget, so that the principles, as the Storinget has now stated, are set out in the document and provide a basis for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e404	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e425	Since the municipalities have spent nearly 30 billion kroner during a four-year period from 1998 to upgrading the care of the elderly, we still have a serious ageing uprising in a large number of municipalities in these days. Hospitals, homes for the elderly and the elderly are closed down. Patients are, often by coercion, moved to poorer care provision, often to nursing homes at very high costs for the individual. Hospital coverage was lower at the end of 2001 than it was at the beginning of the 1998 ageing plan. I do not know whether the other members of the Social Committee experience this situation as surprising, or whether they still settle for statements by the social ministers of the last different governments that the ageing plan is on track and in line with the targets set in St.meld. No 50 for 1998-1999. The Progress Party is not particularly surprised by the situation we have now come up with, as we saw at the end of 1998 that municipalities significantly prioritised the construction of nursing homes instead of new health homes. The Progress Party expressed its concern at the former social ministers Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Guri Ingebrichtsen, without leading to any follow-up by the Ministry to change the strong priority of nursing homes at the expense of sick homes that have taken place until today. There is reason to ask questions about how this situation that we are experiencing today could arise after a unanimous decision to upgrade the care of the elderly, to offer elderly sick people in public institutions exclusive rooms and to provide cover for sick homes equivalent to 25 places per year. 100 inhabitants over 80 years of age. The reform so far, I believe, is more marked by a reform of housing than by a reform of care. We have received more storage and less care in the care of the elderly, with increasing waiting lists for the care and care of the lucky day. This interpellation addresses only the capacity problem in the care of the elderly today and the relationship between nursing homes and nursing homes. With regard to the quality of care for the elderly, which also does not appear to be significantly improved, in particular if we are to believe in the supervisory report in force by the State Health Authority, there is also a lot to put on the finger, but this will be addressed in a new interplay by the Progress Party at a later stage. The main reason for the results we are now seeing, I believe, can be traced back to the legislation developed by the Ministry in cooperation with the House Bank for the financing of nursing homes and nursing homes. Municipalities were generally given full freedom to choose for themselves what they would use the state funds for, care homes or nursing homes. The care investments made by the House Bank in start-up grants of NOK 175 000 and NOK 565000 respectively in compensation supplements for the payment of interest and deductions over 30 years were granted when only the building technical conditions and the number of square metres were in place, and the House Bank also received a verbal assurance that the care homes were to be organised in such a way that there was a chance of success. However, basic staffing was not required for nursing homes. At the time of the start of the retirement plan, the vast majority of municipalities had a significant under-coverage of housing for other categories of social housing that the municipalities now saw possible to cover with money from the elderly. This was the department fully aware of at the time, but they didn't do anything about it. Unfortunately, for hospitals, the compensation subsidy was significantly lower than for nursing homes, i.e. DKK 455000 per year. Possible values are: space, space, space. This in itself was also a contributing reason why municipalities — and to a significant extent since then — have invested in the construction of nursing homes. Not only did the municipalities now receive substantial investment support from the State for investment in new housing units, but the residents/users, including the elderly, pay full market rent for moved care homes, which also includes interest and rebates on loans already received by the municipality from the State, thus making the compensation supplement of NOK 565000 per year. nursing homes could be provided directly in the municipal cash register. For some of the elderly with poor finances, such as the minimum pensioners, rents become too high, and these are then allowed housing support from the state at the top of the municipality's compensation supplement to cover interest and deductions. That the government after government has let this go unnoticed is for me a cross of thought. Although the municipalities have not done anything directly illegal, in their strong prioritisation of nursing homes rather than nursing homes, they have largely exploited the legislation of the reform to increase the amount of housing paid by the state and the elderly. It is absolutely necessary to continue the ageing effort, but the Progress Party will not participate in the continuation of the premises and with the practices used for the ageing plan up to the present date. The Promotion Party believes that the Ministry now needs direct management and must ensure that new health care centres are prioritised, so that by 2003 we will have a health care coverage of at least 25 places per. 100 inhabitants over 80 years of age. It is a burden for our elderly sick people that they are constantly hearing that the state has spent 30 billion dollars on caring for them when the truth is really a whole different one, namely that a significant part of the effort in the old age plan has gone to a housing reform for a far wider range of users than older sick people. Many elderly caregivers have been given a significantly larger cost by being forced into nursing homes where they have to take all the operating costs themselves. There are also too many examples of new nursing homes being empty because the elderly cannot afford to live there. The Norwegian Medical Association has produced a thought-provoking report entitled ‘When you get old — and nobody wants you’ on elderly care in Norway, which we all enjoy reading carefully. It states that very many older people today do not receive adequate help and care because there are too few sick places. Furthermore, it is stated that the elderly are misplaced in their own homes or in nursing homes without care, which I personally fully agree with. Further, the Medical Association writes, among others: care of the elderly must be based on dignity and not on storage. You also have to agree to that. That's the last thing that's now developing in our municipalities. Based on figures from the Statistical Centre, we had 36 142 sick homes at the end of 2000, an increase of only 2,424 places from 1996. Data for 2001 do not exist, but from 1999 to 2000 only 438 new hospitals were built. The Medical Association, based on statistics from the Central Bureau, has calculated that we should have a coverage of 25 pst. health shelters per year. 100 inhabitants over 80 years of age in municipalities, we should have had 49 225 sick homes in 2001. There is a deficit in relation to the current situation at nearly 13,000 places. This fits well with the assumption that in Norwegian municipalities today it is approx. 10 000 older people in need of care, waiting for a hospital. And then we know that approx. 70 pst. of the sick home spacers are senile demented, the seriousness of the situation is even greater. A nursing home that is not a day - care home is unsuitable for 24 hours of care and is highly unsuitable as a care centre for senile demente. The Minister of Social Affairs must now take an initiative to ensure that our supervisory authorities, county doctors, control individual decisions in the care of the elderly to a greater extent than in the past. I ask the parties present in the Social Committee, and I ask the Social Minister: have we all given up the political goal of full medical coverage? Is full orphanage more important than full orphanage coverage? Finally, I ask the Minister for Social Affairs: can we expect the Government in the final phase of the ageing plan to now prefer only to approve new health homes and increase the state funding grant from NOK 830,000 to SEK 1.4 million? kr for the construction of new hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e455	I can only answer to a limited extent for the assessments and priorities made by previous governments, but I will answer for what I and this government have done. From 19 October 2001, we have strengthened the government's governance of the funds allocated through the old age plan, to ensure that the money goes to the municipalities with the worst coverage, and that the care and care of the lucky day is given priority in the allocation. As regards the treatment of applications from municipalities, we are now in the final phase of the ageing plan. However, we are in the middle – midway – of the construction itself, and only around 2005 will the municipalities be completed. More than half of the places that have or will receive grants will be built over the next three years. There has been a broad consensus on giving municipalities the freedom to adjust the offer locally, including: by being able to choose between nursing homes and nursing homes as a starting point for day care and care. Most of the applications for nursing homes were granted in the first few years. With regard to the allocation of the framework of the year, the Government has given more priority to hospitalisation. The government will bring a case to the Stortinget this spring on completion of the retirement plan, where we will also establish the status and evaluate the plan in relation to the targets set by the Stortinget for the retirement plan. We will also address future challenges, and quality is at the heart of it. The government aims to present a separate issue on quality in care services for the spring of next year. The representative Alvheim refers to the compensation scheme for municipalities. This scheme was made through a wide-ranging settlement in Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 50 for 1996-97 Action plan for the care of the elderly. In addition to start-up grants, a grant was established to compensate for interest and rebates on loans in connection with the construction and repair of nursing homes and nursing homes. The Husbank guidelines for the scheme show that the grant ‘can be used both for investment and operation in the municipal health and social sector’. In many cases, it would be better to use the household banking grant for nursing homes and nursing homes instead of sub-financing or sub-subsidising a health home and care home building. In order to obtain the services of a lucky day, it is probably as often qualified staff it lacks, as buildings do. However, there is no direct government earmarked commitment on how municipalities should apply the start-up grant or the compensation grant paid when the municipality has started the project. The grants are to be considered as incentives and in relation to the investment and operating costs to which the municipality commits itself by initiating its projects, the grants involve a subsidy which is paid in the local government budget. The start-up grant does not provide full financing of the investments and the start-up grant for nursing homes is lower than for nursing homes, just to be proportionate to the difference in costs. When the municipalities start construction projects, they commit themselves to the necessary operating costs, and it is obvious that start-up grants and compensation grants are part of the municipality’s financial plan. Some older people have housing assets, and they can and do want to deposit it as deposits in a nursing home. The scheme is designed to offer both to those who can finance and fire funds into the dwelling itself, and to those who want to rent a municipal, adapted or self-contained dwelling to live in nursing homes. This allows for both municipal and private ownership. It is the individual municipality that determines the rentals in municipal care dwellings that are rented out. Although the rental is initially determined on the basis of commercial principles, the municipality must take into account both the fact that the State subsidisation should benefit the lessee and the ability of the lessee to pay. If the municipality further allocates or lends the household bank subsidy to private operators, it may be difficult to verify that the State funding benefits the tenant. Therefore, municipalities are responsible for ensuring that state subsidies benefit users. When the action plan is completed, about 40 pst. have been replaced, improved or significantly standard-setting by Norwegian old-age and sick homes. This has been absolutely necessary to ensure acceptable living conditions for users and an acceptable working environment for employees. We have had rooms with our own bathroom and WC, and rooms with a standard of living, which are large enough to carry out care and care. It's been important to get this right. It is also important to ensure that the weakest elderly receive the help they need. That's why we're now steering the funds by coverage, and that's why we're investing in increased staffing and increased competence. I would also like to stress the importance of strong supervision in order to ensure the quality of service provision, and I would like to strengthen the oversight and quality requirements of these services. As a result of the adopted framework for the action plan, the number of hospitals will increase by 5000. Once the plan has been completed, the health care coverage will have kept pace with the evolution in the number of older people over 80 years. At the same time, a large number of modern nursing homes will be built up. The challenge will be to provide care for the elderly and caregivers in nursing homes. However, there is a large proportion of the personnel coverage in the care services it depends on when assessing the local authority’s ability to provide services, whether in a nursing home, in a nursing home or in the user’s own home, is considered. During the period of action, personnel growth has been faster than the growth in the number of older people, so that according to Statistics Central Bureau, staff coverage has increased from 43 to 45.5 per year. 100 inhabitants over 80 years of age. The municipalities are planning a further increase in staff in the years to come, which the Government will also facilitate through the ordinary government transfers to the municipalities. It is also reassuring to see that the development of nursing homes is accompanied by staff. This is how nursing homes are meant to be: a housing offer with individually adapted care up to 24 hours a day if the need so requires. What we call spaces is less important. It is essential that the care and care of lucky people are provided and that there are older people with care and care needs who are given places. Many projects contain common areas, so that in practice there is little difference between users when care is provided 24 hours a day. Finally, let me make it clear that if the municipalities want to dispose of nursing homes for purposes other than those resulting from the guidelines, this can only be done by refunding the subsidy received to the House Bank. It has been necessary for the Ministry and the House Bank to close projects which do not meet clearly stated objectives in the guidelines for the scheme. We'll keep doing that. Care homes are not an offer for fresh 60-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e491	I'm not quite satisfied with the contribution from the Social Minister. It is said here that when the retirement plan is completed, there will be full health care coverage according to the increase in the number of older people. The Minister of Social Affairs may say that, but I haven't seen a single figure documenting such a claim until today, if it's not to be submitted later, or until spring when we get the elderly package for new treatment in Stortinget. I think the Minister of Social Affairs, like John I. Alvheim, is going to look for a long time to find a municipality where the compensation subsidy is used to subsidize the rent for the elderly, rather on the contrary. In particular, where private developers are used, sold or rented, the apartments are sold at market prices, and this is also done by municipalities. In other words, the elderly have to pay full interest expenditure, while the government has paid grants to the municipality as compensation for interest expenditure. At the top of it all, the state comes in with housing support for those who do not – i.e. a double subsidisation of the housing in the municipalities. There must be a reason why the municipalities of those degrees have invested in nursing homes instead of in nursing homes! If this is what the social minister here claims that nursing homes should have access to care and care for 24 hours a day, it will be as expensive as having a nursing home. It is quite clear that we have hundreds of elderly, sick people in our country in nursing homes who do not receive proper supervision and follow-up from the care establishment. And then my question is to the Minister of Social Affairs: will the Minister of Social Affairs now – and this government can do something if it wants – try to reverse this trend that we have now had until today, and ensure that at least the weakest of the weakest of the weakest, that is, give priority to hospitals, and then in such a way as to also increase the start-up grant and compensation supplement for municipalities if they build hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e498	The representative Alvheim points to one of the most fundamental issues: the elderly and the sickest of the elderly. Yes, we are concerned that the elderly and the sickest and weakest of the elderly should have a good day's offer. As I also underlined in my post, we are now busy twisting it so that the allocation goes to the hospital to a greater extent than was the case in the first part of the start of the retirement plan. The ambition as the Storting has put it, and as the Government will follow up, is to have 25 pst. coverage in relation to people over 80 years of age, and that we need to have a health care coverage and a happy day service that takes care of this group. I believe that the representative Alvheim, the government and I have the same ambition and intention to do the elderly care well enough, and that the offer should be of dignity. As far as supervision is concerned, the reports that we recently mentioned in the daily press yesterday are just reports that we wanted, because we want to follow up on quality and check what the situation is in relation to the care of the elderly in today's Norway. There are many images of shine, but there are too many examples of the fact that the offer is not good enough. That's why it's also important that the supervision works after the intention and gives us the examples that we've seen in recent days. Then I would also like to comment on what goes on the compensation allowance and the rent problem. The compensation allowance may be used both for operations and for investments in the health and social sectors of the municipalities. The grant schemes provide for both private and municipal ownership. Rents are to take into account state subsidies, and municipalities have to have arrangements to do so when they are privately owned. There are also clear conditions for the award of grants, including: it is the municipalities that allocate space in the dwellings. Thus, if the dwellings are used for other purposes, the House Bank may claim a refund. It's happened. We will not hesitate to intervene in relation to this either. So it's the house rental law that regulates this, and then it's the consideration of the individual and the assessment, and not the housing itself, which is the starting point for the rent part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e509	The intention of all of us is to have an elderly care that is able to give older people the best quality of life possible. There's been a rise: $30 billion has given and is giving results. But it's a long way to go until we can say that we have a worthy care for the elderly. As long as we record an extensive undernourishment of the elderly, as long as we have a great deal of darkness about violence against the elderly, both in their own home and in the institution, as long as we have headlines that tell of gross violations in the care of the demente or that the elderly in the psychiatry fall between two chairs, as long as we are told that the elderly do not get up or lie down when they want, as long as there are still major unsolved tasks in the care of the elderly. Older caregivers need time and stability in their lives. Both of these things are a lack of care for the elderly today and will be reinforced if we do not manage to provide sufficient nursing staff with work that will enable them to carry out their care tasks. The representative Alvheim takes up a page on the big-scale privatisation project of the Municipality of Oslo, which shows how short-sighted the privatisation idea really is if an elderly person wants care in the future. Loans to private builders neither provide reasonable housing for the elderly of the day nor provide housing security for the elderly of tomorrow. Other aspects of the urban privatisation policy of Oslo are also beginning to emerge. Contest launching with regular exchanges of care companies has created insecurity for patients and flight of personnel from the institutions. Former tenderers are replaced by new ones or cancel their contracts, because they do not have the power to provide care services at the price they have promised. I hope that the representative Alvheim’s settlement with parts of Oslo’s privatisation will also lead to a similar settlement with the principle of competitive outsourcing, which is a poor tool in an elderly care unit that seeks to ensure the quality and stability of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e518	When the action plan for the care of the elderly, St. meld. No 50 for 1996-97, was dealt with in Stortinget, with the intention that as much as possible should be able to live in owner-occupied dwellings as possible. There was a broad consensus in Stortinget to allow municipalities to adapt their care services locally. This means that municipalities should be free to choose between nursing homes, book centres and nursing homes in the construction of a day-to-day care and care facility. At the same time, the development of nursing homes and the strengthening of home-based care should help to provide individual older people with security and better quality of life in their own homes. This was to avoid an premature referral to a nursing home. Personnel growth during the action plan period has been faster than the growth of the elderly, and more than half of the new jobs have come from home-based care. This in turn means that the development and strengthening of the home-based service in municipalities is very much in line with the plan, and that municipalities have built up a housing and care service that is individually adapted to the individual user. If the municipalities had not strengthened their home-based care, I fear that the pressure on today's nursing home would have been far greater than it is today. The Minister for Social Affairs concluded his reply to the interpellant by stating that nursing homes funded by the action plan for elderly care should not be an offer for healthy 60-year-olds. The Council of State also indicated that municipalities wishing to dispose of nursing homes for purposes other than those provided for in the old-age reform have to repay the grant to the House Bank. Such a decision is entirely in place. One should therefore be able to ask the municipalities for an overview of who disposes of the dwellings to which a grant has been granted in order to be able to clean up any abuses. When the home-based care is now expanded and strengthened, I feel confident that the government will follow up municipalities that applied for within the deadline in October, in line with the Sem-Declaration. I also feel confident that the municipalities will be given the opportunity to establish a good day's care and care for their elderly, and that the government will now, in the request for the reform, give a strong priority to the capacity of the lucky day's care and care. It is important that, in the further allocation, one guard well that the focus that the interpellant has now put on the construction of nursing homes versus nursing homes does not help to create a wrong picture of the day care and care versus nursing places. One must not lose sight of the whole of the plan in the further debate. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e536	Is speaking time over?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e541	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e544	Both the Social Minister and the representative Røbekk Nørve indicated that nursing homes should not be for healthy 60-year-olds. But it shows that you have not fully understood what is the problem in this case, because the issue is it – and it is quite correct that there are not healthy 60-year-olds who are currently being placed in nursing homes – that there are very needy elderly people who should have a nursing home, who are being put in there because there are not enough sick homes in each municipality. It turns out that there are still as many patients in line and older in line to get sick homes now as it did, for example. in 1997 and 1996, so the need is enormous. I think that we have to innovate that there is the big difference between the actual costs of both investment in and operation of a nursing home and the grant given by the state, which makes the municipalities prioritise just as they have done. And you can start wondering if you've lost control of the development of the care of the elderly that you should have. We're stuck in definitions and ways we define ourselves away from the individual institutions. We rotate between nursing homes and nursing homes with day care and care. We have to think about what's the difference. If home-based care is to be provided for supervision and assistance in nursing homes with day care and care, it may not be the same as that to be provided to a nursing home. It is also very alarming what has emerged in recent days in terms of the offer of demented patients in the municipalities. It's a huge need. It turns out that then no municipality in this country has a satisfactory offer for demented patients, and then you can start to become seriously concerned. I want to challenge the Social Minister in one area, and it goes on the supervisory system, the supervisory system for, among other things. nursing homes and also nursing homes: who is responsible for the supervision of nursing homes and what means will the supervisory function have? And another question to the Minister for Social Affairs is this: Will it now be considered that the supervisory authorities should have a larger set of instruments in relation to those municipalities that do not provide the assistance to our caregivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e556	Previous speeches were made on a core argument in relation to how care for the elderly and the development of nursing homes and homes has worked during the period, namely that there will be a close link between the state’s grants and the measures taken by the municipality. And there is perhaps some of the most pointless criticism of John I. Alvheim, which is still being heard, that the municipalities have failed in their responsibility for the development of nursing homes and homes. It is quite clear that the municipalities will depend on the funds provided by the State and will be subject to the premises placed on the use of the funds. When you started with the care of the elderly and the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes, the intention was to provide a total of 24,400 sick homes and a total of 12,000 new annual work in the care and care services of the municipalities. A total of 10,800 new nursing homes and nursing homes were estimated to meet the need for single rooms in an institution and to replace and renovate old and inappropriate building materials, and 13,600 new places and dwellings were calculated to increase the capacity of housing services. This included the construction of 10,400 new nursing homes and 3,200 new nursing homes. In many ways, government has achieved exactly what you were looking for. You have received a very large degree of development of nursing homes, while you have not been given new places in nursing homes to the same degree. And that's probably one of the experiences we have to take with us further, that there's a subcapacity in the case of nursing homes today, with which we have to do something. This means that there is no end to the effort to reform the elderly. It has to be extended, and SV will be investing in an extension that should at least have a two-year duration. You also have to look at the grant schemes you have with the municipalities. When the nursing homes become larger as a consequence of everyone's living in a single room, they also have ringing effects in terms of manning. Therefore, there should also be requirements related to this. And instead of making Norwegian municipalities a target for Stortinget's criticism, you have to take in that you have not got the necessary room for action in the municipalities to ensure the development of care for the elderly properly. You just haven't had the resources you need to do it. An ECON report from 1999 already shows that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs was then informed that there were overinvestments in nursing homes. There were negative implications in the local housing market. It was seen how the market power began to govern the use of those dwellings, and it was seen that there were underestimated expenditures on the operation of nursing homes. All the experience at that time the government could have taken inwards, and you could have corrected the course, but you chose not to do so. Then Alvheim's criticism of the municipalities becomes quite meaningless, because the municipalities have followed up precisely on the grounds of the premises of government and big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e567	The reform of older people has been necessary because the number of over 80 years of age has increased significantly in recent years. Demographic forecasts suggest that this trend will decrease only after 2007. One also knows that the growth in the number of 80-year-olds will vary from municipality to municipality. Oslo and Sogn and Fjordane have a very low growth rate, while for example: Akershus County has a need far above average. This variation makes there necessarily different needs. The size has given municipalities the opportunity to prioritize types of housing adapted to this need. In the revision of the older reform, the Christian People's Party shared the interpellant's concern about the tendency to bet too little in sick homes. This has now been improved by the fact that after 2001, a priority has been given to the development of hospital and nursing homes for the provision of services. There is little help with a nice dwelling or exclusive room if there is no staff available to serve them. The compensation allowance may be used to enhance operation, competence and manning. I think it's a good way to use the grant. Then one avoids the old-age reform becoming a housing reform. It is gratifying that, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, staff coverage has increased from 43 to 44,5 per year. 100 people over 80 years of age. At the same time, yesterday's newspaper reported under-manning, over-coating and that the basic needs were not met. It's unworthy and shows that we still have a way to go. As far as possible, many pensioners have equity and equity to buy their own nursing home. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that both municipalities and private actors can offer them. For this group of older people, it is important that the municipality can provide good home services. Some pensioners would prefer to rent care homes by municipalities or by private developers. I expect that the builders have deducted State subsidies before the rent is calculated, and that they will benefit the tenants, so that they do not need housing support as well. According to the rules of the House Bank, municipalities should have a good control system to ensure that tenants are accommodated. Municipalities must also check that there are no fresh seniors taking up their place in new nursing homes. For the Christian People's Party stands the goal of 25 p.m. the degree of coverage for all more than 80 years fixed. We cannot end the reform until this goal is achieved. This is my response and signal to the representative Alvheim. The Christian People's Party has not given up the elderly effort. The Minister for Social Affairs has notified a major report on the content and quality of care for the elderly. The Christian People's Party sees the need for this, and that the demand for quality must be changed to a more binding regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e590	It is true that at the beginning of the older reform, it was established that as much as possible would be possible to live in owner-occupied dwellings for as long as possible. Both private owner-occupied housing came in through the life cycle, and this by establishing care homes, so that one could have a housing standard that was as similar as his own as possible. But the open and home-based care was to be expanded and strengthened so that this could happen. There is probably still a part in that area too, but we now see that most people live in owner-occupied housing for so long that when they first have to move, there is the need for a health home where, first and foremost, there is a health home where good care and proper health care and care are provided. In that context, I'm going to agree a little bit with John I. Alvheim that there are sick places that we need first and foremost. But then we can take other aspects of this matter. Alvheim says that the other parties, the governments that have been sitting in recent times, and most of us, perhaps apart from himself and the Progress Party, have failed. And the municipalities have failed. But my claim is that at least the Progress Party has also failed, especially with regard to the municipalities, because it is not possible to blame the municipalities when the municipalities do not get resources and framework conditions to fulfill what is the intention of the older reform: a good, sound and dignified care for the elderly. The grant schemes for space expansion are not enough, I would say to John Alvheim. The representative John Alvheim points this out, but this is not enough. We need a general economy for those with operational responsibilities and care responsibilities, so that we can provide sufficient care, including: with adequate manning and other resources. So Alvheim asks the question whether the use of these instruments has gone too far. I think it is an important recognition from the Progress Party when the representative Alvheim says that especially where private builders are used, users have to pay a lot in terms of interest and cover expenses for development. It is an interesting recognition in relation to privatisation, and I think it is good if the Progress Party makes more such confessions. We think that the social minister says it too weak when she says that state subsidies should benefit the tenant. The State subsidisation and subsidies shall benefit the lessee. So I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs at the end: will the Minister for Social Affairs arrange for an increase in compensation to the municipalities for increased health care? Will the Minister for Social Affairs look at the need for staffing and whether we are going to have staffing requirements with our own crewing factors? And can we get a change in the legislation on social security disintegration, so that there will be a level playing field in the matter of self-payment for medicines and medical treatment for people living in nursing homes, and for those living in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e611	Let me first say that it is commendable that Alvheim addresses this matter in an interview. It is essential that we focus on all aspects of care for the elderly, because it is a very important matter. We will have several interpellation debates on aspects of the care of the elderly beyond spring, among others. I have provided myself with an interview about the quality situation in the older sector. I also think it is important that we stress that the elderly reform has been good, that it has been important and necessary. We have done through the older reform a necessary upgrading of a number of dwellings and institutions, and we must not describe it as a problem that we have actually done so. We've come a long way. It is also very good that through the elderly reform, we have employed a number of new people in the care of the elderly. Society has increased efforts in the older sector by nearly 30 billion kroner, and this has led us a good way. Nevertheless, it is also important to stress that the 1997 older reform has not led us into goals. We have a situation in the elderly sector where we still see that we have unresolved problems on the housing side, perhaps especially on the health care side, but not least – and we should, as I said, touch that more later on – in relation to the content page. That's why this spring becomes a very important spring. After all, the Committee has asked – and the Government has agreed – that during the spring session it will come to the Stortinget with its own report on the status of care for the elderly. It's important, and that's good. There the government has a challenging challenge, not least in terms of going through the status: Where were we in 1997 when we started up? Where are we today? And not least, what will the further road be? Are we going to go further with an older reform, or are we going to find a more sustainable system, which will be there to meet the ever-changing needs and challenges of the older sector? It is therefore very important that we, who are concerned with the older sector, do not now almost launch a closure of work on care for the elderly in Norway, because during this spring we are going to be through a coagulant treatment to outline the future, where we still have many major challenges to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e622	I agree with the inter-pellant that there is a need for stronger control and guidance in relation to the use of state resources. It has also given the Minister of Social Affairs a fairly clear feedback. In this case, it is particularly important that the municipalities that have a real undercover now give greater priority to a move away from the first person to the milla principle. The second is that a person also gets a greater turn over to a nursing home. I do not agree with the clear distinction that the representatives of Alvheim and Nesvik put between nursing homes and nursing homes, because the group that needs an offer has as many personal preferences and wishes as other groups in society. There's a need for a varied offer, and I think the municipalities might be the closest ones to see what's the best distribution in their local environment. It has, as I said, been an over-priority of nursing homes. However, it is important that one in the nursing homes that have been established facilitates the provision of a day of care. The next thing that surprises me a little bit is the intense focus you have on the disappearing little part that's gone to private development. Very many of those who have built up in private, e.g. The National Association and other NPISHs have wished to continue their work by facilitating the construction of nursing homes, where one in connection with the nursing home is offered by means of a substantial effort by volunteers. This was something I thought the Progress Party – on the same line as the Right – seemed positive, and that one was happy that a state system was so flexible that one also let, for example. voluntary organisations contribute to the problem-solving process. It is important in the debate that one is now going into, that one gets put up with a permanent system, a system that is also so flexible that the municipalities have the opportunity to facilitate what is best suited to the local environments they know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e633	In the final phase of this action plan, the sad result is that we have barely come a step further if the goal was to provide more places for those who need places of continuous supervision and care. Actually, we haven't had much more space at all. We've got a housing reform, a lot of new rooms and a lot of new buildings. We still have a large unmet need for nursing homes with supervision of the day. I have some experience from a municipality called Bergen, where we have been struggling with long waiting lists for at least 12 years, where we still have long waiting licenses, and where people still die in line to get a sick home. Unfortunately, my experience is that the state investment has been partly a sleeping cushion for a number of municipalities, which chooses to use state grant funds exclusively and does not contribute their own funds. It's a matter of priority in Kommune-Norway as well. My experience is unfortunately also that some municipalities are concerned with shutting out private property, especially in the case of hospital construction, and want to maintain ownership and operation themselves. To all those who now stand up and declare that they are so surprised by the lack of quality, I would like to say first of all that the important spring – in order to reproduce to one of the previous speakers – was actually spring 1997. On 1 May 1997 the regulations on the quality of care services came into force. If the supervision had taken those regulations from 1997 seriously, we would never have had this large-scale expansion of so-called care homes, which are so far away from caring for a good number of residents as you can imagine. If the regulations had been taken seriously – and they are very detailed – about the provision of care, this direction of development would not have come. Then we would have a much more offensive construction of nursing homes instead of nursing homes. I hope that the Council of State will now look at the current regulation, and enforce the current regulation, so that those in charge of supervision use the means they have been given the longest, but they obviously have not taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e644	SV is strongly concerned that the older reform does not just have to become a housing and building reform. It is equally important to be concerned with the content of the reform itself, what kind of offers are given to the elderly and sick in municipalities, both in nursing homes, in home-based services and in nursing homes. In the opinion of the SV, the new investment in the care sector must come in this area, while continuing to develop capacity. The government has announced the introduction of minimum standards and quality requirements in Norwegian municipalities for care and care for the elderly. SV is very concerned about this and will be involved in setting clear and strict requirements for both nutrition, care, care and care for the elderly and the sick. But then there is a major challenge both in Norwegian municipalities and here in Stortinget: Who is going to do these jobs? Who will provide this quality improvement? Who will make sure that the elderly and nursing receive enough food and drink at the proper time? Who's gonna make sure they get up, get the shower, get washed and stiff? And who will be there and have time to talk to them and give human warmth and care? The vast majority of those who do these important jobs in Norwegian municipalities today are doing a very good job, but they are getting worn out. We see a lot of sick leave and a lot of people stop. The poor economy in very many Norwegian municipalities has led to so low basic staffing in the care and care sector that people simply do not endure. In addition, these very important professions are among the most badly paid in our society, and the recruitment is followed. Norwegian youth chooses other better paid and less aggravating professions. In recent years, the search for nursing care in secondary schools has fallen sharply. The new wave of old age that comes in a few years can lead us into a critical situation. Therefore, minimum standards and quality requirements are not sufficient. Everyone knows that quality costs, and so it is in the care of the elderly. And if we here in Stortinget believe something of a higher quality, SV expects this to be followed up with money to Norwegian municipalities. I expect this to be agreed by both the interpellant and the government. This is essential both in order to provide a strong pay gap for carers and carers and to have sufficient staff to enable people to do the good job they want to do, without being worn out both physically and mentally, and to ensure future recruitment. SV therefore expects the Government to come to Stortinget with a price tag on the increased quality of care for the elderly together with a declared political will to pay this price tag through a strengthened community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e653	Let me start by pointing out to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's post: we have to get away from storage and over to care. I look forward with excitement to the debate that we are going to have on the interpellation he has submitted. I assume that everyone in this room must have thought about: Why have the municipalities built twice as many nursing homes as they have built nursing homes if it has not been economically motivated? It is a total misunderstanding of the representative Britt Hildeng to claim that it is the municipality of Oslo that I have especially had in mind when it comes to private developers. This applies to the whole country! And that applies to supply me also the municipalities! You will not get any cheaper nursing homes from a municipality than from a private developer in Oslo. Nor can you rent a nursing home cheaper in a municipality than at private homes in Oslo, because it is market rental in both places. And market rents also include interest payments, which the government has already paid to the municipalities. Then it becomes even worse that the municipality is sitting on this money. Then, to the representative, "Glüttvold." There is a myth again to claim that the Progress Party through the later state budget has granted less to the municipalities than to the other parties. This is simply wrong. And then to the Government and the Social Minister. Will the Minister of Social Affairs now consider going to the municipalities to get on the table what the compensation supplement has been used for? Has it been used for care of the elderly? Is it used for cheaper rent? The answer to that would interest me very much, because I don't think that's what happened in most municipalities. And finally, also to the Social Minister and the entire Government: will they now consider another form of funding for the care of the elderly, where we get the principle that the money should follow the patient, which then gives choices for the individual elderly sick as well, as we have been given it in the case of free hospital choice? It can be done, and it should not be very complicated to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e673	Let me first say that I am very pleased that there is such a large and wide involvement in the Storting to do the elderly care well and well in this country. We come this spring with a case to the Stortinget which, based on what the Stortinget said when starting with the retirement plan, aims to complete the retirement plan and at the same time discuss how it should be continued. – Where did we start, what was the starting point, what have we got, and what remains? That's the challenge for that matter, and I look forward to the conversation with the Storting and the commitment that lies here. On 8 March there will be an interpellation on quality reform. Many have affected the fact that it is now about content and not just capacity. I also look forward to talking to Stortinget and hearing the views you have here. We have also thought a part in relation to quality, and I am busy getting feedback on it. Thus, money alone does not mean quality – money for building citizens, not only for quality – it is about staffing, it is about competence, it is primarily – and not least – about management and organisation. I think most people in this room have had it just like me in relation to the care of the elderly – both as a relative and as a politician – and know that the shoe prints in many places. There were several representatives who were concerned about what's going on overseeing. There I would like to say that the Health Authority is an important body, as well as the relationship of supervision of the county doctors. We also see in these days that it works, because you discover that relationships are not good enough. However, an important principle is that supervision should follow the services and be independent of the arena. We will also strengthen those services and clarify quality requirements in the care of the elderly. Today there are regulations for nursing homes, there are guidelines for nursing homes and, in addition, there is a guide on how this should be designed. These are to be converted into regulations in total, so that municipalities must, and not just should, look at the quality of their services. There are many good examples in this country that municipalities at political level have made demands on how older people in municipalities should be at the administrative level and, similarly, at the professional level, so that, when older people in Norway come into nursing homes or in nursing homes, they can make demands for the service and are told whether they can be helped with their personal hygiene needs, whether they are given food, nutrition, or what they might be. That must be quite specific. The supervisory authority is formally below the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health is also looking at the possibility of strengthening supervisory sanctions so that we can enforce good and dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e692	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e706	As a matter of fact, this case may look very small and simple, but the consequences can unfortunately be great for the normal driver if this case is to lay the template for all the bombings we will have in the future. When I joined Øystein Hedstrøm in writing this Document No. The 8-proposal, it ran into my mind how that happened in the past. Now I'm not going to bring any historical descriptions in the hall here, but I've always been concerned about history, and I've often read about something called highway robbers. Now I don't want to say that you have it in this case. But it ran into my mind when I wrote this document, that we had so-called highway robbers who demanded a small customs duty or a charge from riders or drivers when they were going to pass an area, or they seized all the goods they had. It was ashore. At sea it was so that a lot of governments issued something called the caper letter, both in England and in France, so that those who carried the caper boats, and had this hijacker letter, had the right to charge, or they took the whole cargo. In modern times they have been renamed pirates, but in ancient times it was hijacked. Now I'm not going to say that these bombings in Eastfold are the same thing as it was in history, but the comparison just came into my head. Just so it's said, I don't get to be clubbed to say 'jackers' and 'land road robbers'. In other countries, toll collection is always carried out retrospectively. The road is built first, and then you start the toll collection. The toll rejection effect, that people then drive sideways to avoid paying these 20, 30 or 40 kroner, becomes small, because road users prefer to drive on a new, modern and good road. It's in our nature. Then we have a modern motorway with high traffic safety and accessibility, and we pay for that. The normal situation in Norway is the opposite. We start the collection in advance. We set up a bomb and we start charging the money before we get there. And that's when the problems start. In some cases, problems become so great that you also start putting up bombs on all kinds of sideways, as you have done in connection with E6 in West Town. This has given a lot of unfairness, as we write in the document, namely that the local population near this bomb, for example. in the Kambo area, in many cases pay 15 kroner in charge each way to pick up the post or shop at the grocery store. They have to pay several times a day even if there is no local road to be built there. We believe this to be very unfair for those who live in this area, so that is why we have put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise a system to exempt the local population from tolling schemes when operating local roads in its neighbourhood’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e720	I would suggest, on behalf of the Labour Party, that the matter be rejected, for it has nothing to do in this Chamber. It's a matter that should be decided in the Road Directorate and not in the Storting. There must be limits to potting. I have reason to believe that several of the parties will vote against the case. If I didn't want to have rejected her, I might have wanted to ask the representative Nistad if he looks at ferry tickets as a pirate. But of course I'm not going to ask you that, since I suggested to reject the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e727	The President records that the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt has proposed that the case be dismissed. I expect the vote to be organised in such a way that those who vote against Document No. The 8-proposal, in fact, votes to reject the case. I would like to ask that we try to deal with this hereafter in the debate. However, the President will allow — a bit of doubt — ‘toucher’ into the reality of the proposal. The President shall try to be careful in the follow-up so that the debate does not slip out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e732	For the proposal: the representative Starrfelt, together with other colleagues from the Workers' Party, has previously attended the 'clinch' session with our Minister for Transport. She has been concerned about wanting to prevent irritation and prevent the growth of the toll collection from contributing to political disdain. As I understand this, neither the road offices nor the directorate have any opportunity to grant exemptions in the event of obvious unfairness. What I have been confronted with is precisely the problem that it is the Storting that has made the decisions, and that the directorate and the road offices have no authority to intervene and grant exemptions or otherwise satisfy the cases where there are obvious injustices that we all certainly agree on. So I want to ask questions to Minister for Transport Skogsholm: Have I misunderstood this? Is it possible today to grant exemptions? Is it not clear that there are only funeral orders, emergency vehicles and, in some cases, disabled persons who can be granted a dispensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e741	One could say a lot about this matter, but with the proposal that has now come from the Labour Party, I shall confine myself to one point. In the case of exceptional arrangements, the cooperative party assesses the possibility of an assessment of unparalleled circumstances that may arise in the context of the approval of the individual toll project, i.e. in advance of the project. However, if there are very special situations in the future, road users have the opportunity to look for exemptions from the Road Directorate, which is a tax authority. The Cooperation Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, thus supports the Workers' Party's proposal to reject Document No. The 8 proposal, assuming that this is a matter for the Road Directorate and not for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e752	In order to answer the specific question: there are tariff guidelines drawn up on the basis of concrete projects which have been under discussion in the Stortinget and the Stortinget has had the opportunity to influence the design of these guidelines. In exceptional cases, the Road Directorate has the opportunity to make some exceptions. However, it is a prevailing principle that to fund road installations through tolls should be exempted from the minimum, otherwise revenues should be lost. Therefore, it is important that we have such guidelines. These are to be reassessed in the Road Directorate today, and there is an opportunity to provide very special exemptions in very special situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e759	I would like to begin by agreeing fully with the proposal from Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to reject the matter. My rationale is the same as many people have had, namely that this must be a matter which is, for the first time, an agreement between local county authorities and the road authorities. I'm from a state where we've had more toll projects for a long time. There we also have exceptions for some of the local population in one particular area, but it was an agreement that was made in advance, so that it was part of the basis for the whole project. But we can all admit that it will always feel unfair to have to pay to run a road, just as Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt was in: Many people feel that it is also unfair to have to pay to cross a fjord. So I don't think we have a single pen stroke to make arrangements that cover all the situations and all the cases that we have. This is just one specific case. I also feel that it is not right to take this up as a matter in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e764	The President requests that representatives be brief.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e767	Yes, very briefly: although the Chairman of the Committee has pointed out that the rejection of this Document No. The 8 proposal is supported by the Christian People's Party, I would like to make it clear on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we are agreeing to the proposal that now exists from the Workers' Party, namely to reject the case. Of course, all such projects have a cost side and a revenue side, and there is a need to balance these accounts. However, any changes and adjustments must be made via the Road Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e774	In the case of so-called Document No: 8 proposals submitted directly for consideration in this room, I hope that the practice will not continue to be that they stop in this way in relation to having a proper debate on important issues. The case concerns, for example: These are approx. Twenty families out at Kambo. By passing once per. today, without using E6, but in order to do all the necessary tasks, it will amount to NOK 130000 per day during the amortisation period. vehicle! And I have little faith, after what the Minister of Transport here said, that there will be some particularly greater opportunities for exemption. She said very clearly that there should be a minimum exemption. I don't understand the argument either. This is about about 20 families. That would have no meaning whatsoever for the payment and the collection for E6. There would be a little drop in the ocean! But think of what goodwill and what a different reputation the Great One would have had if one were able to close down this exchange! Nevertheless, no one from other parties makes constructive proposals on how to proceed with this. But at least it will be a clear signal to the Norwegian people and all those who have to be involved and pay for the branch offices of the highway, which party has fronted this, and who want justice!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e786	The President sees that some representatives, including the proposers wish to discuss the reality of this proposal. But we've got a proposal to reject the case – and it's quite obvious that there's a majority in the Chamber for that. The President fully agrees with the representative Hedstrøm that when Document No. 8 proposals of importance shall be given proper room for consideration of the issue. But the President is also of the opinion that when presenting Document No. Eight proposals on matters that belong to the administration and not to the Stortinget should not take too long to discuss this. I do not intend to call the Storting here and now to a vote on whether Document No. The 8 proposal is to be rejected, so I allow Thore A. Nistad to have the floor for a brief comment at the end because he is one of the proposers – and then the debate will end with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e793	I think it was a strange way to do this: once we've created a Document No. We do not get the proposal for consideration in the committee, even though the committee does not have a single case for consideration. We go straight to death, we have it quiet and we can deal with the matter there. Then the presidency will have the matter in here – and then it will be rejected in close proximity here in the Chamber, so that we don't get it thoroughly debated. That's when I ask myself if it will be common practice from the Presidency that they send our Document No. Eight proposals directly in here, and whether it will be common practice from the Labour Party and the other parties that they just go up to the pulpit and say that this is something the Progress Party has promoted, so we're not going to deal with that. There will be many bomb project cases for this house – there are many in the directorate, and there are many municipalities that have them on the bed and will send them in. And if we're not going to be allowed in this room to have any sense in these matters and discuss them, then I wonder what we're going to have them for at all. So I'm just asking, sir. President, if the Labour Party and others have only intended to reject it all. That's all gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e800	To that end, the President will say that when toll financing issues arise in the Stortinget, the Stortinget, when the Stortinget discusses them, has the opportunity to discuss any eventualities that may arise in relation to the bomb projects, and the ability to lay all kinds of world leaders. In this way, the President does not intend to restrict Storting's ability to influence the individual toll-funded projects. But, in general, the President will state that if it comes in Document No. Eight proposals, which clearly belong to the administration, and not to a political discussion in the Grand Duchy, will, together with the other presidency, avail itself of the possibility of the Rules of Procedure, and bring the matter to the attention of the President after it has been out of office for one day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e805	President! To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e810	The president doesn't think he's misunderstood. The President has not given the floor to the representative Hedstrøm – and the debate on case No. So 3 would have ended. [[The representative Hedstrom is on his way to the pulpit.]] [[Footing, see page 1606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e834	In this country, hundreds, perhaps as many as thousands, women and children live on the run from extremely violent men – men they have had a relationship with, and who refuse to leave them alone. This interpellation is the result of the frustration, despair and fear that characterizes the lives of these women and children. We can't have patience on their behalf. It makes me upset and angry that we have allowed a group of people to live in constant fear, on the flight from terror and threats of killing in what the United Nations is called to be the world's best country to live in. I'm so lucky that I've become acquainted with one of these women. I can't say her name publicly, for she's deleted from all records, she lives on what's called code 6. When I talk to her, and she laughs of frustration and doubts whether she can do this life much longer, I think that at least I shouldn't have patience on her behalf. And no one else should have either! I'm tempted to say that a Council of States that deals a lot with terrorist definitions a day should take a walk and visit these women and their children and ask for their definition of terrorism. In a Norwegian perspective, a woman and her child are likely to be exposed to terrorism much more than this house is. Alternatives to Violence estimate that about 100,000 men have a violent problem directly affecting Norwegian families, and violence reproduces for every single day we allow a blow, a kick, or a killing threat. State Council Dørum often talks about zero tolerance. Zero tolerance against men who terrorise and kill women and children is thus called for. Every woman and every child living on the run in this country without State intervention is a failure statement. But it's also a violation of human rights, rights we have committed ourselves to follow. A woman said it this way: I wish I could seek asylum in another country and be sure that I am protected. Isn't that a little awkward? And isn't it a little awkward that our best response to these people so far has been that in these days we are investigating the possibility of changing personal numbers? Should our answer really be that we should not do anything about the cause of their problems, i.e. violent and terrorist – and probably sick – men, but that instead we should use our forces to hide away the victims even better than today? Besides, isn't it an illusion to think that we can hide them well enough, unless we send them to another country, far away? Mobile violence alarms, says the Council of State. The following message was typed on my mobile phone that day, and I discussed this at the Political Quarter earlier this year: «Violence alarm in the hands with a knife in the back is a false security!» The point is that we will soon have to take their fears seriously. And fear doesn't disappear unless the threat disappears – unless the man gets help to fix his own life instead of ruining someone else's. Here I come to my next point: Why do those who operate the treatment services that exist, beg and ask for money every year to continue helping men with violent problems? Why does Per Isdal in Alternatives to Violence need to spend time and resources in meetings with the ministries, when he has far more sensible things to spend time on? Why did the State choose to withdraw from Alternatives to Violence in Oslo when it meant that 50 Akershus families lost their offer at the centre? This is an investment in life. This is an investment that may prevent some of the boys today being subjected to the violence of fathers, directly or indirectly, as future violent men. If there's something we all know, it's that violence produces violence -- an old jungle maybe, but it's equally fully valid. In the name of justice, I must thank the Council of State for the commitment he has shown to put in place family violence coordinators in all the new police districts. Hopefully, this could lead to women, like she knows, not experiencing in the future that reports she submits will be posted almost on the basis of the assembly line principle. She has 38 posted reviews behind her, and tragically she is not an isolated case. In the light of her and others' stories, I have asked the Council of State in the form of letters on an earlier occasion to consider an independent review of the cases of women who live in this way, to see if there can be a basis for legal proceedings. Threats of killing someone should be taken seriously, not resolved without investigation. Had the Council of State or I sailed exposed to similar threats, I don't think we had to beg for something to happen. Then I think something had happened right away. Does that mean that we're worth more than they are? The reply to the letter I sent was not satisfactory. I asked to know about the possibility of a new review would be assessed. It will not be, among others. on the grounds that we are about to establish family violence coordinators in the 27 new police districts. So we have to be patient? So we're going to ask the women and their children to wait until the skills and knowledge are in place so they can submit a new report? According to Stovner Police Station, it will take time – perhaps a year, perhaps even more – before this will work properly. In the meantime, children have destroyed their childhood, and perhaps we will even experience that another woman has to pay for her life because she was not taken seriously by the local police station and by the helper. Over ten women lose their lives in this way every year. How many people commit suicide as a direct consequence of terrorist activity do we not know. According to State Attorney Morten Eriksen, many of these murders are murders of the judiciary, and he is calling for the will to give the victims in such cases the same protection as we give the perpetrator today. He actually believes that the legal certainty of these men has gone too far. In the extension of this, I would like to ask if it is such that we believe that some women choose to live completely voluntarily at a hidden address over several years, or whether this might be a clear indication that something is wrong. I have no faith that this is part of a campaign to prevent men from getting along with the children, but I know that for many of these children it is a problem when the father gets right with them. What's the point of running away from a violent man when you still have to make sure he gets to meet the children? And how can a new person number, name and place of residence prevent him from finding out who they are, and where they live, when he gets the opportunity to squeeze this out of the kids anyway? I think we have to take inward that some of these men are really sick and very dangerous and not fit to be responsible for children. These women's prayers are primarily about thinking about the children, about what they experience from fear and shame, about what it feels like to have to change school again because the father or the stepfather again has managed to figure out where they live. I also wonder if it will now be so that we will give the children new names and new numbers. Should we really demand that children do this, that they from now on be called Nina instead of Inger or Fredrik instead of Odd Einar? In any case, it's hopeless, because the result has to be that they're found, unless we're also going to require them to cut contact with family, relatives and friends forever, as those families do that currently live on code 6. Believe me, these people are lonely enough as they are today, and it's not our job to make this solitude permanent. With this, I leave the word to the Dørum Council and ask him to explain the ministry's work to women and children living in exile in the world's best country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e872	We cannot accept violence and abuse against women, no matter what cultural context it is explained within. Violence and abuse against women are criminal acts and must be combated and prevented. When I say this with strength, it is among other things. Because I, as the representative Thorkildsen asked for, and as I have actually explained many times, have personally met many who have been subjected to violence in different contexts over a long time. It has been the practical driving force. So the invitation I received in the post has already been taken. It has been very motivating for my commitment, just as it has been for the representative's commitment. However, when women are living on the run, it is also time to question which assessments underlie when measures to help threatened persons are centered around keeping them hidden rather than focusing on limiting the potential violence perpetrator's room for action. It is a paradox that the one under threat is forced to flee from his own home, school, work, and family and thus have to bear the burden. However, in order to ensure the necessary legal certainty in relation to a potential breach, situations may arise in which it is difficult or impossible to provide sufficient protection to the threatened person, without any significant contribution from himself. In order to ensure that the police use available protective measures and that the use of these measures does not vary between districts, we have recently used several instruments from the Ministry. The aim is to help victims of violence and threats in general and women in particular feel safe enough to remain at home and do not feel compelled to ‘underground’. Let me just briefly explain some of these measures. During 2002, we will establish our own family violence coordinators in each of the 27 police districts of the country. The coordinators shall have the primary responsibility for all matters relating to violence in close relations. In addition to carrying out purely police professional assessments for the use of instruments such as a violent alarm, a restraining order, public prosecution or the like, the contact person shall provide practical advice and assistance for the purposes of individual action. Depending on the threat picture, this could include assistance for changing the telephone number, creating mailbox addresses, changing the bank account number, changing the name, changing routines or habits known by the threatening person, etc. Police liaison must also contribute to the establishment of contacts with other bodies, such as health and social affairs, child protection and crisis centres and, where appropriate, others. In order to ensure that residence does not become a decisive factor in the assistance that vulnerable persons receive from the police, a working group led by the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a proposal for an instruction on the handling of violence and threats against women. The instructions set out how such cases are to be handled by the police and provide an overview of the practical safeguards that can be used. This will be transmitted to the Directorate of Police for Implementation during February 2002. Following a change in the criminal law, it is now possible for the police to impose penalties on perpetrators who continue to threaten or seek the person(s) under which they are required to stay away through a restraining order. We are working on further tightening the rules to increase the impact of the visitation ban. In addition, a separate rule on the prohibition of visits will be given to the perpetrator in a common home. In some cases, the threat to a person will nevertheless be so serious that it must be allowed to remain hidden by the use of a new identity. However, I would like to stress strongly that this instrument will only apply in exceptional cases. In order for an identity change to be sufficiently effective, it is a prerequisite that the person breaks down his or her previous life, including family, friends, work and residence. For most, this will be perceived as an unreasonable burden and should therefore never be used without all other options being assessed. I intend to promote a bill for Stortinget in the spring session, which allows for the establishment of such a fictional identity, including what has been the topic of debate for a long time, namely the change of person number. It is also important to address people with violence and aggression problems with their female partners. Here I would like to mention the work that the Foundation Alternative to Violence – ATV – has done. The target group of ATVs is to a large extent clients who need outpatient treatment for a limited period of time. ATV has also implemented a project to treat women with violence and aggression problems. It's a valuable work ATV's doing. The Foundation has over time developed important competences that need to be maintained. However, the foundation is struggling with the economy. In order to maintain ATV with the expertise available, the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health, has supported the Foundation’s activities by NOK 810,000 this year, so that ATV does not have to cease operations but can continue its useful work. Crisis centres are also very important measures for women exposed to violence. When the first crisis centres were set up 20 years ago, they greatly contributed to the visibility of women’s abuse and to the provision of assistance to a group that was largely alone. The auxiliary public utility was not available to, or did not reach, the victims of, private violence. The ‘help for self-help model’ of crisis centres makes the threshold low for seeking help and shall be a complement to public services. It is important that crisis centres can evolve in line with the needs of societal change. Such an innovation is the Book Collective, which is a three-year project in collaboration between the Oslo Crisis Centre and the Diakonissehuset Lovisenberg Foundation. The target group for this offer has been women with a minority background who have grown up in Norway, who are or are at risk of being compulsive, and new-born women who are married to men with a minority background in Norway, where marriage results in a life situation characterised by coercion, violence and abuse of the woman. It is a premise that women are threatened, so it would be risky for them to live alone, partly because you experience violence in marriage, partly because you want to avoid coercion. The main objective of the Book Collective's work is to enable residents to master an independent life in Norwegian society after the breakup of the family. The book collection has six places. 13 women used the book collection in 2001. Of these, two were under 18 years of age and were placed in the Book Collective of Child Welfare. Out of 17 residents who were or had been in the Book Collective until the end of 2001, eight were in the target group ‘new arrivals to Norway and with foreign citizenship’. All of these have applied for further residence on the basis of abuse in marriage. Four have been granted this, and four have applied for treatment. The measures that I have mentioned so far focus mainly on protecting women who are already in a vulnerable situation. I see it as a very important task in the future to look at both the treatment offered to the offenders and the situation of the children who grow up in families where violence and abuse are part of everyday life. We know that these children are subjected to heavy loads, and that some of them later in life are also recovered as attackers. Let me add that we don't have to use any rhetorical points to protect ourselves from terror, whether the terror exists in a large or a detail. Terrorism against an individual, terrorism in private or against a society as a whole actually has a duty to protect itself from and to take the necessary action against. What has been at the heart of the intervention of the representative has been dealing with the treatment of violent, suspected sick men – I have mentioned this in the context of the ATV action – but questions have also been raised as to whether a person should not react more strongly to men. I think that's reason to take it very seriously. That is why I have followed up the initiative that my predecessor Hanne Harlem made very commendable, to introduce an admission to refuse a visit for a man in a common home. That means, then, that the man, in addition to the restraining order, is being subjected to an intensification by not being in his own home. Even I think that if a person is to go further towards men who act as violently as both the representative of Thorkildsen and I know, both through their own experiences and through other people's stories in a different way, the scheme must in that case go through an assessment of an extension of the geographical scope of the visitation ban. The restraining order is currently either linked to a place of residence or, where appropriate, to a common home, but we know that in other contexts we have comments relating to a restraining order, including: we have had it in the hearing that has been concluded, which will lead to a case for the United Kingdom to combat child and youth crime. The geographical scope of the restraining order outside the home will be among the measures that I would like to look at precisely to address the challenge that the representative of Thorkildsen and I actually share, namely that it is absolutely necessary not only to protect the most vulnerable person, not only to respond from the police and auxiliary equipment with the best possible competence, but also to respond to the attacker, who must find himself in getting an increasingly sharp searchlight aimed at him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e912	Does the interpellant want the word for follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e915	I want the word for follow-up, and it almost feels a little strange, because I feel almost like a «progress party» here I am talking about zero tolerance, that we should hit hard – «hard on crime» and such things. But here I feel that time has gone on for a long time. I want to quote – that's in and of course what the Council of State said from the pulpit here a few minutes ago, but that also says in this letter, a few sentences: ‘Depending on the threat picture, this could include assistance for changing telephone numbers, creating mailbox addresses, changing bank account numbers, changing the name, changing routines or habits known by the threatening person, etc.’ So there's a massive focus on how the victims should behave, and how they should live to prevent another person from using violence against them and, in the worst case, killing them. I have to say that I am not satisfied with the answer I got, because these sentences are in a way representative of the job that the department has done so far, as I see it – that it has been very strongly focused on just how we can hide away the victims, and not similarly strongly focused on what we can do with the perpetrator. I am very pleased that the Council of State has seen the importance of ATV, how important it is that we have such offers, not least at a time when the psychiatry is almost in the knee. But the problem is that we don't have the opportunity to judge these men in sufficient order, or that there won't be a legal case in the first place. For there shall be no alternative to a legal action to issue a restraining order and to issue violent alarms – mobile or not mobile. In fact, there are legal cases here; we have to run it in court, and then I believe that the Council of State should initiate an independent review of the cases of those living in exile today, to show that he wants to do something here and now to help them out of an emergency situation. Because they cannot therefore sit and wait for the competence to be increased in each police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e924	For its part, the President would stress that a negative estimation of states should not be used as a characteristic of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e927	I think it's a sufficient starting point to have an involvement in this matter that you care about the people who are being violated, and that you're then willing to act. And it is precisely this line of action that has been my line since I first got in touch with this – also the last time I was Minister of Justice – and that led to the action plan against violence. It is the line of action that has led to an extension of the measures. And once it's been focused, of course, it's been focused because you haven't been able to deliver this well enough, either on the protection side or on the side that the representative Thorkildsen now addressed, namely that the police and prosecution authorities have had cases. That's why we've had these projects in Bergen and at Stovner, just to know how proof is to be secured early enough, that the evidence is good enough, and that you have cases in court. That's exactly why you've looked at the whole legal system, so you're going to get cases and not just something that just stays on the ground. And there's no doubt that getting cases in court, because there's been a good job at all stages of the criminal proceedings leading up to it, is absolutely crucial. I have for a long time been concerned with the help measures that the representative asked for, so I mentioned it. But I also went a step further. I have previously received criticism that I was stuck on the line that Hanne Harlem so positively initiated, namely to tighten the visit ban by refusing a man access to a common home. And the representative was obviously now so eager to see me as a kind of passive, non-acting person that she also didn't get the point where I said I thought it was necessary to look at and expand the geographical scope of the visitation ban. And when I said that, it's precisely to focus more strongly on the attacker. However, it must also be that the measures we are taking, such as measures for those in crisis and need help – and we know that people need it and that it should hold – are measures to ensure that those who are exposed to it are taken seriously by the police and prosecution authorities. Then, of course, it is equally important to implement the measures that allow you to respond. And in recent years, there have been such intensifications, both an intensification of the restraining order that allows people to be placed in custody, and the line that I have now pointed to, which is based on looking at the geographical scope of the restraining order. And that's because as we get to know more and more about these things, we have to react. It has always been my starting point, and it is going to continue to be my starting point in the work on these matters. Violence is violence in any case, and it is clear that the situation and the terror to which it is subjected will not be forgotten by anyone who has faced any of the people who have been exposed to it. And that's where the representative Thorkildsen and I have it in common that we've met them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e936	I understand the representative of Thorkildsen's parallel to the terrorist debate we have, not as a rhetorical point, but primarily as a point of calling for political power and political weight in this matter, which in many ways might be missed, precisely when we are going to be impatient. It no longer lasts with personal meetings. It no longer keeps pointing out that the situation is serious. Political action is required. Having said this, I also feel the need to say that the topic is very difficult, and in that way really not suitable for political polemics around individual actions. The aim of all fight against crime, including violence against women, must be to prevent further abuse. It is dangerous to get caught up in the discussion on the level of penalties and investigation, and it is my opinion that a collective justice policy has just pointed this out, among other things. during the budgetary procedure in the autumn. We did not make it a struggle for more severe punishments, but for an exchange of views and a gathering of arguments towards more prevention. The Socialist Left Party and the representative of Thorkildsen therefore point out a particularly important point in their interpellation when the search for cause is made a topic. At the same time, I must admit that the proposal to mark violent people electronically also does not resonate with us in the Workers' Party. Such proposals do indeed only help to weaken and destabilise a particularly important debate. And in this context, there is reason to call for a much more comprehensive strategy on the part of the Minister of Justice. So far, the recordings of the Government have been about answers to specific events and matters raised in the media, or matters inherited from the former Minister of Justice. There is also reason to call for a much stronger and active attitude on the part of the Minister of Justice. It is when the debate programmes are over and the journalists have gone home, that the job starts. Moreover, it was particularly disappointing to note that at the last harvest the Government would not be involved in increasing subsidies to, for example, Alternatives to Violence. So when this is drawn out in today's debate, it's time to call for action. Such offers, including: for the men who strike, they shall do precisely something with the root of the unhindered. The Labour Party therefore expects, among other things, that the next budgetary procedure should include: Take this into account and provide, for example, room for Alternatives to Violence Offices in each State. We also expect the Government to now contribute to increased resources to criminal justice, so that we can get more and better settlements. Reconciliation cows, as we experience today, are unacceptable. However, the main challenge for a government dominated by the Right, which sits on the mercy of the Progress Party, must be to curb the forces that liberalise access to both drugs, pornography and other underlying causes, among others. sexualized violence. Here I allow myself to demand a far more active role from the Minister of Justice. I have noticed that this is a relationship he has hardly affected in the interpellation debate so far. Does it mean that this is not significant for the development of violence against women? There is reason to point out that a majority of e.g. the rapes are carried out in alcohol intoxication. This problem is too serious for the Right and the Advance Party to be able to steer the content of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e949	Violence against women is a major social problem which, unfortunately, has been less visible than other problems related to violent crime. But many women have stood up with their stories. Courageous and rascal they have told of a life filled with fear and anxiety within the four walls of the house, the frame of what is to be the safest base of life. Through these brave women, society has gained more insight into the problems, and everyone in this room has a great responsibility to help them. 35 women have been killed by their former or current partners over a period of five years. It is estimated that at least 100,000 women live in relationships where they are exposed to violence or threats, and 1,000 women are at all times fleeing from their former partners. In a modern democracy such as Norway, there are numerous violations every day of some of the most fundamental human rights – the right to free life and freedom from violence and fear. Society has a great responsibility to protect violent women and their children from violence committed by spouse, partner or father. They must be taken seriously, and I am glad that our Minister of Justice has done the most. As Minister of Justice of the last Bondevik government, he took the initiative in several legislative changes and pilot projects. The co-operation administration is now following up a number of measures to improve the situation of women at risk of violence. Before Christmas, the follow-up to the adopted Action Plan ‘Violence against Women II 2002-2003’ was launched. The representative of Thorkildsen is concerned about how we are going to bring the causes of violence to life. The action plan highlights the importance of the priority given by the police and the judiciary to strengthening women’s legal certainty. When cases are given a high priority through prosecution and judgment, potential perpetrators are clearly informed that society is seriously downplaying such behavior. The government is taking a number of measures to help all those who every day fear for their lives. There are mobile violence alarms that make it easier for women to do things that for us are a matter of course, and that for them have almost been impossible: to go to the store, to pick up the children in the nursery, to meet friends. With mobile violence alarms, they're no longer prisoners in their own home. In order to help women, it is important that they dare to tell them about the violence they are subjected to. Knowledge of the problem is important for the police to provide the necessary assistance and assistance. As of 1 July, all 27 police districts of the country shall have their own staff with special competence in the field of family violence. The results of the trial projects in Bergen and Oslo have been uplifting. The number of reviews has increased here. Several people contact to get help, and the women feel that they are being taken seriously. We are very pleased that the offer is now being made available throughout the country. The family violence coordinators will be there for women, and my hope is that they will enter an early stage, before the situation becomes so serious that drastic measures such as moving and possibly changing identity become the only way out. The fight against family violence is a common struggle. Society as a whole must contribute to changes in attitudes and behaviour. [[The President clubs.]] It's about respect for women's rights and equality. As politicians, we can only change the rules of the game; we can never adopt ourselves away from the problem. [[The President clubs.]] But we have to show that we are playing along with the women in their fight for safe frameworks around life for themselves and the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e966	The President must ask the representative to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e969	I think it's a very important area interpellant's taking up, and the interpellant has given a description of dramatic lives and relationships that many of us will put behind us, because through life in the professional context we've been, we've experienced meeting the same thing. It also has the current Minister of Justice. The current Minister of Justice and many others, not least the current Secretary of State, know the problems. It doesn't prevent us from learning anymore, and that based on our learning and knowledge of these things, we can help to find solutions that can give better lives for those who have been exposed, and prevent new ones from entering the situation that people have experienced before them. However, I think it is a bit strange to get a description as if the current government were doing nothing, and that the previous Bondevik government didn't do anything either. The representative of Storberg's description does not harmonize with reality. When the previous government, Bondevik, presented the government’s action plan ‘Violence against women’, the reasons for violence were also addressed, and there were many different things, which I do not have time to address now. So you also ask the question, what are you going to do to counteract this? Or: What should be done to ensure that what is now revealed as cause and effect can be compensated by action? Then it is clear that you can have faith in the law, and you can have faith in many different kinds of physical measures, and I hope that many of these will work and give the necessary results. But I think that to a large extent it will still be about attitudes and values of people that make it an important matter for the Storting to go in for an upgrade in the view of man, what and who we are, that we don't have a ownership relationship with each other, that I can do with mine as I want and others shouldn't interfere in it. I think it's important to stress when we talk about these things, that we have to be able to prevent and repair the damage. I think it's also necessary in this context to point out that what we're doing is what we're doing in such a way that we can verify whether it has worked, and it doesn't work according to its intention, we're going to try to find new measures. We can all work together to achieve what I think is a cross-political agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e981	It's an important interpellation that travels by the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen. Violence against women is a big problem, and it's a constant problem for them. I have sailed in my civil profession followed many women on the strenuous road it is to go to report, to bring something from the private room and out into the public room. It is then rightly expected that society will protect those who are exposed to violence. Today it is the victim who has to run and who has to run away, move away from home to protect himself. It is the victim who must bear the burden of fleeing from an attacker. It's not hard to understand that women experience it as a new assault. On 29 November 1999, Mr Nymo, former representative of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, promoted a proposal to strengthen the rights of victims of violence, Document No. 8:22 for 1999-2000. The Central Party called for an overall review of measures to strengthen the rights of victims of violence, including working for an additional protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights to strengthen the protection of victims of violence. For the paradox, it is actually that perpetrators today have practical and enforceable human rights protection under the Convention, while victims do not have equivalent protection. The central party actually received a majority in favour of the proposal in Stortinget. The Minister of Justice, Mr Dørum, at that time felt that the proposal was unnecessary, expensive, and that was debilitating to the Court. He was strongly attended by First State Attorney Morten Eriksen, who was the head of the Human Rights Committee of the State Attorneys, who thought this was an important matter, because Norway had always been at the forefront of international work to strengthen human rights. When the matter was dealt with in Stortinget, the Center Party got the large majority, all except the Advance Party, to strengthen the rights of victims of violence. We therefore think it is good that the government is working on measures to combat violence against women and thus strengthen the victim's situation. My question to the Minister of Justice is about the Government, as part of the measures, will be working for an additional protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights to provide women who are victims of violence with effective and human rights protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e992	As most of the speakers today have said, it is important to prevent violence, and it is important to protect against violence and other abuses. It is clear that it is particularly serious when this is a systematic part of everyday life, and where you constantly face constant uncertainties about what can happen. It's in many ways a crazy way of living. In this sense, the concrete act of violence in and of itself is just part of the burden, what's bad life, because the threat and fear of what can happen becomes part of this. That this can be experienced as something that could well be called everyday terrorism, I think we should definitely be conscious. So it's a little dangerous with a debate that becomes a kind of competition for testimonies as to who it is that has hit people who have been exposed to the most difficult situations. I think it's a little dangerous to go into a debate where it kind of becomes part of the issue. I have also been in the situation that I – both professionally and in other contexts – have met a part that has absolutely lived difficult and bad lives. But you can never say if there are no others who have had it much worse. There's one perspective I'd like to highlight. It's that family violence also affects children very much. There's also something about children in the interpellation. But there is something about children becoming – as this has been largely talked about in this debate – in a way co-workers alongside the mother. Of course, it is very often just the mother who in such a situation must protect the children, and who will be the one who can do it. But I think it's actually a little bit important to focus on the children as independent beings and as independent people. And if I were to give a diploma, I have to say that one of the strongest things I've experienced in professional relations is to hear what you might call testimonies from children who actually have a broken childhood because of violence, whether it had to be in the home situation or in other contexts. Holding on to the child also as an independent person in this context, I think is important. Otherwise I just have to say that, like others, I am a little questioning that the Minister of Justice is almost perceived as being only concerned with bringing the victim away from the rapist. In fact, I have come to realize that the current Minister of Justice has, in many respects, had a very strong commitment just to secure the victims of violence and threats in the everyday situation and to prevent it from being hit. In fact, I don't think the description of reality is going to be particularly striking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1005	Let me first regret what was perceived as an outrage against the Advancement Party instead, sail if I think they would be pleased to be characterized in the way that I characterized them. But anyway, I want to point out, if it's allowed, that there's one party that's not present here, and it's a party that usually tends to be extreme in front of the crime debate. All the other parties have been up on this pulpit, and I would say that I am reasonably sure that the Progress Party would have been present if there had been Muslim men's violence we had discussed. But now let it be a depression. I am concerned about the ban, and I am very pleased that this is now also going to apply to a common home, and that the Council of State is considering whether this should apply within a whole state. It is also the SV's proposal that you should be able to remove the violent person from your home. But what I don't want to accept is that the restraining order will be an alternative to a criminal prosecution. We're going to have punishment for men who threaten to kill another human being. Of course, I fully agree with the representative, Mr Hove, when he points out that the children are of an independent size. The problem has just been that we haven't pushed the kids in front of us and said, look how these kids are suffering. Then, in a way, as I see it, it becomes a kind of double punishment when part of these kids who have been neglected and neglected all their lives, end up as violent people after them because of all the problems they've experienced, all the events that are never taken seriously by the aid, and then we might have put in place a machine to punish them. The question is what kind of punishment they will be given if they receive a treatment offer as well as a treatment offer that allows them to process the events they have experienced through their childhood. I then ask directly, and I am going to continue to do it until the cramp takes me, sail if it may not be a parliamentary expression: what will the Council of State do here and now for the women and children who live on flight – that is between 500 and 1000 people – other than the proposals that have already been put forward? What do you want to do to get the perpetrator and put him behind the lock and hit and give him a treatment offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1018	The President would say that as long as you stick to giving characteristics of yourself, it's okay. It's when you start to characterize others that it becomes problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1021	It is as well known in a state of law that in order to have a criminal case, one must have at least one witness, and one must also have proof. If you were to ignore it, we would have neither a state of law nor any of the rights and obligations. My main line has been for a long time, even before this interpellation, to do what is possible for the person who has something to report to be taken seriously, that evidence is guaranteed, and that matters can be conducted with strength and force. Then it is set the norm against an attacker that the attack is not accepted. It's been my main line. When I didn't focus on this main line today, it was because the interpellant asked what I would do acutely in relation to extreme situations where people are on the run, and where she first rightly pointed out that you're on the run, of course you have to get help, and then asked what to do when there's a refugee situation. What I've been dealing with is, for the first time, a restraining order – the enforcement of a restraining order, a restraining order that's on the way, where you can refuse a man's visit in a common home. And then I've said that I think it's reasonable to consider whether the visit ban should be extended geographically, without going into the geographic extent. Then I don't think it's quite reasonable that I get back that in this interview I didn't have the criminal prosecution, which has been the topic all along. However, there is a wide range of these measures: the prosecution, with quality, the protection of the individual’s home, with a restraining order and all other measures, if necessary protection by flight, but also a response to the offender. Then we have a series of measures, and that is the series of measures I am concerned with having a click on and delivery. So I have to say, without it going to be anything else than that it is, that when we talk about witnesses, it's not just witnesses in the legal sense. Witnesses are also people who in the public debate – either by full name and face, as someone has done, or anonymously – tell about a reality that has been hidden. Without these witnesses, as others have mentioned here, we would also not have the debate that pushes us to choose between what is right and what is wrong. So the representative asked me about conventions. I've been concerned about a thought that I want to investigate, because it's been told me that we don't have an international general convention against what we can call 'gendercide'. ‘Gendercide’ means the right to kill someone because of their sex. It affects all the significant women, and we know about places on the globe where it is. I am absolutely convinced that if we are to create a legal protection that is also international, not to the detriment of a single national measure, that is what matters. When I took the Book Collective, which is also about women with minority backgrounds, it was to take the interpellant to the word that we should not be blind to those who belong to minorities, who are subjected to violence and persecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1032	The examination of case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1038	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1045	During the debate, Mr Vaksdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Mr H. Langeland has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1050	During the debate, the Council of State has made it clear that it will take the decision requested by this minority. I therefore ask that the proposal be sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1055	The proposal has thus been transformed into a transmission proposal and then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out an impact assessment of reducing from three to two levels of the network — and promote its own case for the Storting in 2003.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1084	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1091	As the President explained in the debate, it would be sufficient to vote in favour of or against the proposal in Document No. 8:44. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise a system to exempt the local population from tolling schemes when operating local roads in its neighbourhood’. – Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1101	It is necessary to clarify that I believe the majority will vote against the proposal because one rejects the proposal as a matter for the Storting, not because one is voting against the reality of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1106	I had intended to ask for the floor in relation to Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure to point out errors in the proceedings earlier today, but when the representative Starrfelt reaffirms the error that has been made, I might as well do so now. The size has previously taken a decision on the procedure of this document No. The 8th proposal. It was treated as a record case in the normal way, and the Storting decided without any objection that it would be dealt with under Section 28(c), that the matter was being reviewed and then brought up for consideration. If you want a proposal to be rejected from treatment in Stortinget, it is the case, as the President is probably well aware, that it is during the reading of the Minutes that you have to make proposals on it. When the Storting has unanimously decided to bring the matter up for consideration as a matter of its own, it is both a mistake by representatives of big business to try to get the case dismissed from the proceedings, and it is – as the President really knows – completely wrong for the President to try to deny representatives from going into the facts of the case, because it is the reality of the matter that is being dealt with in the Stortinget. The question whether or not a previous decision has been taken by the Stortinget. Today, it was attempted to reject representatives from going into the reality of a case that was being dealt with in the Storting after a unanimous decision to raise the issue. The President also intervened in the content of what was said by the representatives who went into reality, i.e. a very wrong procedure on the part of the President. What is under consideration is the proposal as set out in Document No. The 8-proposal, which the Stortinget has unanimously previously accepted for consideration under Section 28(c). So I want to give advice both to the representatives and to the President to distinguish between the time when a case may be rejected and when it is set to be dealt with. Of course, it is quite possible for the majority to vote against the proposal, but one cannot hide behind the fact that it does not concern the Stortinget, when the Stortinget has unanimously decided that it is a matter for consideration. The fact that you disagree with the proposal is fine, but then you get to say that you disagree with the content, and you don't try any other excuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1115	The President again refers to what he has raised as a subject for the vote – that is to vote in favour or against the proposal – and does not go any deeper into a dialogue on it. It is therefore wetted using the wetting plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-19.ana.ud1971e1127	There is no voting theme in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
