ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e63	Welcome to a new day – hopefully it will not be as late today as it has been a few nights earlier. The representative of Gjermund Hagesetter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e68	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Karin S. Woldseth, Kenneth Svendsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, to put forward proposals to ban the publication of tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e73	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e76	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to propose the conversion and expansion of municipal and public information through the use of existing TV networks – text-tv – to the audience in connection with the development of broadband by local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e81	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e84	On behalf of Thore A. Nistad, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I would like to make proposals to provide a free card for the payment of tolls to the local population living at E39 between Øysand and Thamshamn, who in the future will not be able to avail themselves of newly built E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e89	The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e92	I am going to make two proposals on behalf of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, on improving accessibility for disabled people, and on lifting the company's half-G share of aid for the organisation of workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e98	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e101	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Ola D. Glötvold, Eli Sollied Överaas and myself, make proposals for a better practice in the relationship between privacy and alerting obligations in the field of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e106	The representative of Åsa Elvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e109	On behalf of the representative Heidi Sørensen and myself, I would like to make proposals on the management of the Norwegian-Russian communities as well as measures to ensure more openness in the Norwegian-Russian quota negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e166	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of line of up to five lines, with replies from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each party group, from parliamentary leaders and from other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e177	: I will first be allowed to correct a mistake in Innst.S. No 255. On page 266 of the printed configuration, before proposal No. 9 says: 'Proposals by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left:' Furthermore, the motion in the vote on page 125, first column, at the bottom, did not come forward as a proposal under the recommendation of the Committee under the heading. 22nd@item: inlistbox The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber. On 7 May, the Bondevik Government presented its draft revised budget for 2002. Paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure requires the Financial Committee to give its opinion no later than two Fridays in June and the Committee has done so. When the 2002 budget was examined, no majority was set up for a budget line. The examination of the revised budget has led the Government Parties, following negotiations with the Progress Party, to submit an adjusted arrangement which will receive the Subsidy of the Progress Party. The negotiated result lies well beyond the lead position of the Progress Party, but the result nevertheless points in the right direction. There is reason to point out that this time the negotiations took place in a very constructive and solution-oriented manner. The purpose of the budget revision is to adjust the adopted national and state budget in relation to changes in the financial framework conditions, or to any specific need for changes in the decisions on appropriations which have occurred since the adoption of the ordinary budget. The government has followed this up to a great extent, but ends up not taking sufficient account of the changes that have actually taken place since the budget was adopted. At the same time, the budget adopted in the autumn does not actually bring together a political majority. The government raised budgetary questions, and the Progress Party voted to maintain the Government – not for the budget content. Of course, a necessary condition now for the subsidiary support of the Progress Party was that some quite obvious conditions were improved in relation to the budget decisions of the autumn. But I would like to stress that this would have been far more difficult if not the Progress Party itself had a significant delimitation in relation to the scope of matters we found it imperative to do something about already now. For it is tempting both to take a number of political rematches, to propose a number of tax reductions and to make major re-priorities to the State budget. But because this is a budget audit, the scope is limited and solutions have been found. By contrast, for the autumn we have a completely different situation. Then all the gaps are reopened, and much more issues will be the subject of political attention. The question is whether the Bondevik government has planned to start implementing the Sem-Declaration for the first time, which, after all, was the basis for the Progress Party choosing to support the formation of this government, or whether the new course of government talks a lot about, will continue to sparkle with its absence. But that debate gives us plenty of opportunity to come back after a longer summer vacation. The profile of the Progress Party in the revised budget may be summarised as follows: strengthening the hospital economy in order to increase the treatment capacityenhance the rehabilitation institution reintroduce the reimbursement of treatment against childlessness with effect from 1 January 2002reversing the scarring of company car taxation and driving compensation strengthening the justice sector, in particular by occupying the vacancy police posts strengthening the education sector through a variety of measures increased transporting and reducing the residence of refugeesenhanced access to the People's Security Fund critical review of the housing loan scheme for state employees and securing the net pay regime for ferries The negotiated subsidiary budget unit shows that the Progress Party has been fully implemented – not at all. One good example of this is that we only manage to reverse the scarf in the driving compensation, while unfortunately the company car tax is still at a higher level than last year. But that matter is not finished – and the harvest is coming quickly. But we've been given more money to the hospitals for patient treatment. We've been reduced by artificial fertilisation, and we've been given more funds to the training institutions, as well as increasing the input-based funding of hospitals to 60 pst. from 1 January next year. We have been given the means to fill vacant positions of the police, and we have been strengthened by the courts to reduce the accumulation in criminal proceedings. We have had a number of positive changes in the education sector, including the non-integration of the landlines into the framework grant. We have been given more resources to increase the transport of refugees and increased border control. The Public Social Security Fund shall be granted an extension of the right of establishment. The Housing Loan Scheme will be reviewed. It will be opened for private construction of prisons in Norway. A separate matter is being promoted about a food inspection for the autumn. And here I want to underline a few things: what the finance committee has made clear is that you want one food supervision, not two, which was the government's original plan. This means one joint oversight of both land-based and sea-based production. Here, the focus is on consumers and business; there must be effective and coordinated supervision. It is then important that the building-up of this ensures a focus on seafood production, that it is proportionate to the positive impact of the marine food industry on our national economy, and that consumer considerations are also taken into account in an international perspective. In addition, the Progress Party has had its Document No. 8 proposals for tax relief in the case of private treatment insurance to reduce sick leave and sick pay. We are very pleased because, in our opinion, tax incentives in many contexts contribute to more cost-effective use of society's resources. This type of private scheme can help relieve public health and reduce cows and sick leave – and thus also public costs associated with this. In relation to the budgetary agreement, it was a prerequisite for the Progress Party to add any agreement on pediatric policy to the revised budget agreement. There has been a consensus, and the consequences it has for the current year's budget are balanced and in place. I record that the Workers' Party is trying to make its arrangement as an interest-rate-friendly arrangement. Creative accounting is probably very interesting for particularly interested people, but it doesn't lead to lower interest rates. I think it's a pity that the Workers' Party, through such cheap tricks, is completely alienated from reality when we discuss economic policy and interest rate formation in Norwegian society. To the economic situation of Norway, however, I would like to stress the responsibility of the Government, but also the majority of the population – a majority of the population that is definitely not made up of the Progress Party – for the level of interest rates. The government at all times has, through a series of years, claimed that the responsible balance sheet point is located right where the Government itself has defined it, and that this is critical, not least for the level of interest. This is also used in – what to say – recent times, as an argument for why it is so essential to follow the rule of action to the point and the dot. Nevertheless, the Norwegian level of interest rates is very high — and far from falling. And then someone will soon have to explain to me why the so-called responsible fiscal policy that is run by the majority in this Chamber is so responsible – when what is produced as one of the main objectives is not to bring interest down. The Progress Party has repeatedly criticised current fiscal policies and pointed out the need for a system shift where economic growth must be the bearer, together with the focus on reduced underlying expenditure growth, not necessarily budgetary balance, action rule and so-called tightness. And even though the Progress Party in this round has left the rule of action in a hurry, I can't wait to point out any obvious remarkableness. For it is – as the Progress Party has argued a number of times – fully possible to trick the underlying factors of the action rule so that the so-called structural budget deficit can appear to be responsible and within the framework of the action rule. The increased yield from Statkraft is one of the best examples of this. What is actually being done is that the company is first to be given money, like a so-called line-of-series operation – which does not affect the budgetary balance either – for some time later to withdraw this money, but now as an operation over the line, with which one can balance the budget, without apparently spending more oil money. This is so obvious that it is almost incomprehensible that it has not brought greater attention to macroeconomic environments. The motivation of the Progress Party to demonstrate the hopelessness of the rule of action is not the desire to use every colossal crown that flows into the state treasury – whether oil money or taxes – but to prevent a coercion that actually deprives Stortinget of the opportunity to have a more active relationship with the development of the Norwegian economy. The argument for the rule of action appears to be unsophisticated, home slump, because it does not relate to where, when or how the money can be used in the mainland economy to promote productivity, efficiency and increased economic growth. But this also gives me plenty of opportunity to debate further to the autumn. With regard to the position of the Committee on State Accounts, including the public interest, I would just like to refer to the Committee's comments in the vote and address them. This spring's budget negotiations have been peacefully segregated. It has – as I started to say – been constructive negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party. This has led to the creation of a majority within the deadlines, and I am sure that the Minister of Finance is pleased with the situation that arose during the harvest. But it's not necessarily that this has to be considered an engagement. On the contrary, there is much that speaks for the fact that the harvest can be considerably more complicated than the easier exercises that we've been through in ours. But I – in any case – want to give praise to the government parties for the way they have acted in the negotiations with the Progress Party this time. Our experience of the autumn's budget negotiations was that we were constantly moving backwards in the negotiations, rather than getting closer to a solution. This time it went quite differently, and so we also got a good result. I bring this up with the suggestions in the vote where the Progress Party is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e258	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e263	The budget we are going to adopt today means a considerable increase in government expenditure. But it's within the so-called rule of action, i.e. the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. With this revised budget, the Progress Party chooses to enter into a comprehensive agreement with the Government Parties. It hasn't happened before. I am very surprised at the chairman of the Finance Committee now, who almost hassles the rule of action and the use of this money, because the Progress Party is fully committed to a budget agreement and supports it, but nevertheless goes to the frontal attack on the rule of action. That's part of what's being adopted today, and that's the basis for the rule of action. My question to Siv Jensen is: Is there any indication that the Progress Party has now come up with new ideas? Is it the case that the Progress Party sees the need for discipline in budgetary policy and supports the rule of action? If this contribution by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets is to be followed up in the budget for the autumn, I have to say that it is somewhat surprising to hear how the rule of action is referred to. However, the rule of action underpins this budgetary agreement, which is backed by the political leader of the Progress Party. My question is: is it now that the rule of action is not in front of the discipline of budgetary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e272	I understand that this must have been a prepared line, for if Tore Nordtun had listened to what I said, he would have sensed the criticism that the Advance Party is travelling from the rule of action. Then he had also realized that I underlined that we have for some time left the rule of action. That doesn't mean we're done with our objections to the rule of action. On the contrary, there is every reason to be sure that this will continue. I think the Workers' Party has the gift of frenzy. Here they will try to present the subsidiary budget unit as a budget that increases expenditure, even though, as Tore Nordtun said, it is within the so-called rule of action. Paragraph 1: The rule of action is a rule that the Workers' Party itself laid when they were in government, so it should Tore Nordtun be well immigrated in. Secondly, the Workers' Party's own budget for the revised budget has a large impact on accounting restrictions. What the Labour Party is doing is trying to pretend that they have a tight schedule, which apparently will bring interest rates down in Norway, while what they are actually doing is increasing, for example. The lending framework in the House Bank, which they themselves admit, will lead to increased activity and pressure. And then, later on, they're like the little pro-mille limit they've put in, like, what's supposed to save the Norwegian economy. I think it's naughty. I also think that a party that has tried over time to present itself as the responsible party in economic policy should be too good to come up with that kind of cheap trick in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e285	Let me first confirm that there are no plans for an early engagement. Even I'm married, and the government parties are good at each other. I would like to acknowledge back, particularly to Siv Jensen, but also to the Progress Party, that there has been a tidy and constructive approach in the negotiations on the revised budget. This does not mean that the negotiations have not been tough. I can confirm that the demands of the Progress Party were significant, but we managed to reach a compromise that ensures that the Progress Party has had a significant impact. It is a result with which the government parties can also live well. I guess I don't reveal a big secret when I said that the Progress Party did not make a strong demand for privatisation in relation to the treatment of the revised national budget. In the debate on the announcement of ownership on Tuesday evening, Øystein Hedstrøm explained the turnaround of the Progress Party in this matter, among others. by pointing out that 60 000 jobs in the competitive sector are threatened. My question to the representative, Siv Jensen, is whether she believes or believes that state ownership or buying-in in the business community helps to strengthen the competitiveness of companies, and then I think of companies in the competitive sector in particular. The problem is, rather, that the increased pressure to use more oil money is one of the threats to jobs in the competitive sector. Finally, let me just attend the representative Siv Jensen on one point, and that is when it is said that the Government must now begin to implement the Sem declaration. Let me then just point out that, after the negotiations on the revised budget with the Progress Party, we have raised the tax relief of NOK 13.4 billion. There is a significant step towards the goal of NOK 30 billion during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e296	Finally, it should not be the task of the Progress Party to ensure that the government parties and the Government implement the Sem Declaration. It should actually be a premise that it was implemented by the Government itself, so that the demands of the Progress Party in negotiations actually turned the policy even a little bit further. I understand that the government parties obviously need help with this. Of course, we're going to try to contribute to this in the areas we agree on. But that should be the government's task. So to the issue of ownership: I think it's a very important debate. I'm actually a little surprised at how dogmatic the Right has become in this question. We are facing significant challenges, as a small country with significant competitive business. Then we have to put some of the ideology aside and actually think about how to organise the equity situation for Norwegian companies, how to make the capital market in Norway work better over time. Then it doesn't work, as the Right believes, just to remove the property tax and then these problems are solved on one two three. So it's an instrument that works at best after many years, while in a number of areas there are actually acute needs that the Progress Party has been trying to help solve, by using the wealth that is currently tied up on the hands of the state, so that we can strengthen the competitiveness of our own business rather than just investing these funds in foreign companies, which actually end up competing with our own. And that must be the greatest paradox for the Right. When the oil fund enters as an investor in foreign companies, and then ends up kicking our legs under our own companies – is it the way to strengthen the competitive industry? I don't think so. That's why I think it makes sense to think a little bit differently, a little bit more long-term, and that we're actually using our capital strength to strengthen the nation's competitiveness over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e303	The review of the revised national budget confirms a pattern that has been in place since the introduction of the Bondevik government, namely that this government’s supporting party is the Progress Party. What we have now witnessed in relation to the revised national budget is what the chairman of the committee called an easier exercise, and this easier exercise actually consists of a rather narrow agreement that it is difficult to see that we cannot agree on. It is probably because the Progress Party has a very strong desire to be a supporting party for the Government, and the Government has a strong desire for the Progress Party to be the parliamentary basis of the Government. In this way, the pattern that has been there ever since the government was established is confirmed by this agreement. It's quite interesting in itself, but what might be as interesting is what's in the agreement, because the agreement is quite special, in the sense that very much of that Progress Party later as if they're engaged in, is not part of the agreement. Let me just do one simple example. One chooses here to say that a relief in driving compensation is one of the most important things. There is probably a reason why this should be important from the point of view of many people. But if you think of that profile the Progress Party later on as having, that is, a strong social commitment – where do we find it? Is this one, for example? the requirement or wish for an improvement in relation to housing aid? Is there a requirement here for young people with disabilities to leave the nursing home, which I think I have seen the Advance Party ‘tourists’ around all channels with for years? The reality is that when the Progress Party actually sits and has the ability to have influence, you don't pick the ones that have the least, the ones that sit at the bottom of the table, you just pick a completely different profile. And this is my challenge to the chairman of the committee: why – if it really is that the Progress Party has a social commitment – are you not using the opportunities you have? But when you have the opportunity, you don't give relief or improvement to those sitting at the bottom of the table – on the contrary: you do the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e314	I must first be allowed to reverse a quite obvious error: the Advance Party is not a supporting party for the Government. We have, as Mr Djupedal rightly points out, a very limited agreement which means the subsidiary support of the Progress Party for this budget. That means that our primary proposals are significantly away from what the Government and government parties themselves want. And I think that maybe the best example of us not being a supporting party is in the agreement that SV, the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center have just concluded on kindergartens, where the opposition has gathered in relation to the government parties and said clearly from what kind of course we want for kindergarten policy in the years to come. And that's what Øystein Djupedal should be happy about – that this agreement has become a reality. So to this with driving compensation. I'm actually amazed that Øystein Djupedal doesn't see the social profile of tax relief in this area. In the choice between making a relief in the company car tax versus the driving compensation, which we were actually facing, it was obvious why we chose to reverse the tightening of the driving compensation. For whom is it that has it? It's not the rich directors that Øystein Djupedal likes to attack. It's e.g. home help workers, there are very common people who depend on the car as a work tool to get their job done. And if it's not an instrument for more people to get on their own income, I actually don't know about other ways that work better. Where SV is committed to pushing people more and more support schemes that make them totally dependent on the state, the Progress Party wants to enable people to live on their own income. It means removing some of the burdens that the state and the public sector are constantly putting away on ordinary people and making it impossible for them to cope on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e321	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e325	Today, the Government Parties and the Advance Party are adopting re-priorities to the State budget for the rest of 2002. Two things are pretty certain: the interest rate will not fall as a result of the budgetary adjustment. And: the competitive business situation will not improve as a result of this budgetary adjustment. This is really the most serious issue of the budget review, which is taking place today in the Grand Duchy. Throughout the winter, the government said that a goal of economic policy was to bring interest down. Now the government says that it hopes that the interest does not go up. On 9 November last year, Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss said to NTB that the supplementary budget provided a good basis for the fall in interest rates. He suggested that lower interest rates are good distribution policies, especially for young people in the start-up phase and others with a high debt burden. Jan Tore Sanner, for natural reasons, did not disagree with Foss, and said to NTB the same day: «The budget proposal has a sound device, and provides a good basis for lower interest rates, to the delight of both households and businesses.» Six months later, the level of ambition is greatly reduced. On 8 May, the Minister of Finance said to Dagbladet: ‘It is hardly any immediate effect of the revised budget that people receive letters from the banks about the fall in interest rates.’ It is not useful to put the full responsibility for the development of the economy on payroll, as several representatives of the Government, including the Prime Minister, have tried. The government has a responsibility to tighten up fiscal policy if the economic situation indicates that it is necessary. The government proposed to spend an additional NOK 6 billion in the revised national budget. It was making the limit. The government should shut down the autopilot and take the economic control itself. The result of an economic policy on autopilot is in addition that the underlying growth of government expenditure is doubled. Listening to the government's budgetary partner a little while ago, it is not easy to get wise on the actual positions of the Progress Party in economic policy. The best thing to say about it is to protest for the whole world, but get on the road. But having two of these positions rarely goes well for a very long time. In the revised 2002 national budget, the Labour Party has given high priority to industrial and competitive enterprises. High interest rates hit everyone with housing debts, but they also hit businesses. Strong krone price, higher wage growth than Norway's trading partners and reduced prices on the world market for key Norwegian export products have led to more difficult export-oriented business. The working party will therefore reduce expenditure in the State budget by nearly 700 million. kr in relation to the arrangements of the Government. A somewhat tighter approach is a step in the right direction and an important signal that the budget will be used to guide economic development. The financial arrangements of the Workers' Party would also contribute to a slightly lower expenditure increase. I would remind you that unemployment has increased from about 55 000 in 1998 to about 70 000 now, and the trend is increasing. From May this year to May this year, the increase is 12,300 people. The warning light should also flash in the Government Quarter. In the light of developments, the Labour Party has proposed a total industrial and competitive package of measures of 350 million. kr. It contains in brief: increased depreciation rates for machines for SND programmes to stimulate the innovation-enhancing reimbursement rate for cargo vessels along the Norwegian coast increased the possibility for firms to take in apprentices and also an increase in the grant to apprentices in addition to that proposed by the Government500 additional action sites for the offshore supplier industry re-establishment of the freight balancing system removed from the budget There is a rebellion against the Bondevik government in Kommune-Norway. Erna Solberg has openly admitted that the service provision will be cut to next year due to tight municipal economy. This is honest, but it's bad news for the people. The increase in pension costs in the municipal sector is worrying. The Labour Party considers that the State cannot discharge its responsibility for the increased costs in the municipal sector and has therefore asked the Government to come back with concrete changes in three areas, so that the local government sector can cope with swinging pension costs in the future. In addition to our proposals on pension conditions and the challenges facing municipalities there, the Workers' Party proposes to transfer almost SEK 0.5 billion more than the Government of the municipal sector this year. Of this, 250 is going to be million. kr to increased framework grants to the local government sector. The government of Stoltenberg provided that hospitals could increase their treatment capacity by 1-2 pst. in 2002, in order to achieve the targets for the reduction of cows and the removal of Corridor Asians. The working party has therefore proposed to grant 350 million. kr more for hospitals and to reduce the excess of artificial fertilisation. These are proposals that are consistent with what is also adopted by the partners in the agreement tonight. Demand in the housing market is high, especially in major cities. One of the main means of reducing the pressure on the housing market is to build several new dwellings. No later than today, there was an important update on the difficulty of the housing market. This must be done by the public. The interest for all types of loans from the House Bank is high, but a large part of the lending framework in the House Bank has already been used up for this year. The working party does not want an excessive lending framework in the Husbank to dampen the housing structure, not least for those who have the greatest difficulty getting into the housing market. For them, private bank financing of housing is often entirely out of date. We are therefore proposing to increase the loan framework to the House Bank by NOK 2 billion. In examining the revised national budget today, the Stortinget is taking a position on the kindergarten agreement. It was debated extensively earlier this week. Of course, the Storting expects the Government to follow up the agreement. When I find it necessary to mention this also today, it is because the government council has expressed itself in a way that raises doubts as to whether the government has taken inward the consequences of a clear decision in the Stortinget. Undermining of the nursery contract must cease, and the Government must discharge the mission it receives today from Stortinget. It should almost be unnecessary to repeat it. Government parties are also making strenuous efforts to tell us that the Workers' Party has become irresponsible in economic policy. They also continue to do so after the revision of the national budget clearly shows that the Workers' Party covers its proposals in crowns. We don't spend more than the government parties, but we spend the money differently. Yes, we even have a tighter arrangement than the Government. The Workers' Party's alternative revised budget meets the challenges facing both industry, municipalities and young children's parents in a better way than the Government's. A former offensive fiscal politician has become a retired Minister of Finance who has two hands and gives the entire responsibility for the development of the economy to the social partners and the settlement of wages. Both Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss and the Prime Finance Minister of the Government Party, Jan Tore Sanner, spends much more time attacking the Labour Party's economic policy than defending their own. The theory that attack is the best defense is probably at the root. But it is so that it is the Government's arrangement that is adopted, with the help of the Advance Party, today. Now we have just got a little insight into the fact that there is a turbulent relationship – first the engagement was almost switched off from the pulpit, then it was given praise to the cohabiter. The fact is, however, that what is affirming in the Storting this spring is the government's dependence on the Progress Party in budgetary resolution. So it's going to be the budget that's going to be adopted, that's going to affect the economy. The budget adopted tonight is the government's revised budget, supported by the Progress Party. Then it would be useless for the Minister of Finance and for the Government not to take responsibility for the developments that are coming, it would be interest increases, lost jobs in industry or welfare cuts in the municipalities. With this, I take up the suggestions in the vote that the Workers' Party has promoted, either alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e399	Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e404	Let me just say first that I agree with my statements last autumn that the adopted budget – when it was adopted – was a good basis for lower interest rates. We also received that after the adoption of the Co-operation Board's budget. Otherwise, the governor pointed out the salary line in his reasons why inflation could be higher than 2.5 pst. than less than 2,5 pst. in the long term. That's the reference we've been dealing with. Otherwise, I register Hill-Marta Solberg starting his post by pointing to the need for tightening up, and then continuing to point to the need to spend more money. If it had been the case that the Workers' Party believed that there was a need for tightening up, it should have been done and made sure that the pressure in the economy was subdued. However, if you go a little closer to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, you can see that there are a number of factors that are moving in the opposite direction: by expanding the framework for the House Bank, which helps to increase activity, by expanding the framework for the SND, which also helps to increase activity, and by wanting to have a separate loan arrangement or fund for municipalities that will, of course, also help to increase activity, as the Labour Party's municipal politicians explained yesterday. So to another question, the working party was out a week or so ago and promised NOK 9 billion in tax reliefs during this period. Let me put it this way: we have heard before that both alcohol fees, chocolate fees and caravan charges are going down, it was probably an annual play from the former fiscal spokesman, Dalheim. But when I ask the question, it is because the Workers' Party has a non-funded tax package for 2003 of NOK 8 billion, linked to the depreciation rates and the investment fee. Do these 9 billions add up to the 8, or are they 8 billion included in the 9?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e415	I am very surprised to note that the main attack by the government parties, also with the support of the committee's chairman in the past, against the proposal of the Workers' Party, concerns the extension of the loan framework in the House Bank. I think the government parties and the Advance Party must make it clear tonight if it is such that they believe that fewer dwellings should be built. I perceive the municipal minister there that it has not been the goal of reducing the framework in the House Bank. No, the aim has only been that the housing should be financed by private banks, that the role of the House Bank should simply be reduced. Building dwellings by means of private banks can be no less activity than building dwellings using the framework of the House Bank. I think it's a pointless approach, unless we get it clear here tonight that the government parties are going to dampen housing and that they are not going to meet the challenges of price rise in the housing market by getting more housing. If that's the point, we need to know. And then it's also interesting to know if that's how government parties have included their increase in the loan framework of SND in the calculation of the tightness of the budget. I'll assume that the answer to that is no. I would also assume that if I ask the Government about the billion in funds for the districts they agree on, it will be included in the calculation of the tightness of the budget, is the no answer. Should the answer be yes, I expect the Minister of Finance to come to Stortinget with a new system of how the government budget is set up, and how rigour is calculated in the financial system. What the government parties are doing here today, with the help of the Progress Party, is with respect to notifying only hesitate. So for tax and tax promises: there are no other major promises made in that area than what the government parties have committed themselves to in the Sem Declaration. 31 billion has been raised for this period. To date, I have not been given any clarity as to how it will be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e424	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg and the Labour Party seem to be busy with interest rate developments. It also refers to the contraction that the Labour Party claims they have done, of 680 million. kr. The problem is that 75 of these millions are increasing interest income because the House Bank has expanded its borrowing framework by NOK 2 billion. It is of course in many ways positive that an increase in the loan framework in the House Bank, but claiming that this will have an intensification effect of 75 million. NOK, I thought it was a bit wrong to claim. Does the working party really believe that an extension of the loan framework will have an intrusive effect? If one believes that this is the case, the Labour Party believes in its economic logic that if an e.g. If you had a plus of 20 billion, so you had a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a plus a minus a plus a plus a plus a minus a plus a plus a plus a
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e429	I appreciate taking this with the loan frameworks once more, because I think it is quite important to say what the Workers' Party believes about the type of criticism that comes against our regime, both from the government parties and from the Progress Party. I then also challenge the Progress Party, in the same way as the government parties, to make it clear, when they claim that our increase in the house banking framework involves increased activity, and therefore is not dampening on the economy – and we need to know now: Is it such that the housing structure should be reduced, or is it such that the government parties, and also the Progress Party, really believe that we should increase the housing structure, but that there are banks other than the House Bank that are going to take care of the tasks? I'm pretty sure what the answer is. For the right-wing parties, it has always been that the role of the House Bank should be reduced, not so that we can build fewer homes in this country, but so that we can get a different funding. When the Workers' Party has a different view of it, it is not least because it is the House Bank that we believe is the most important instrument for ensuring a housing structure for those who have the biggest problems of getting into the housing market, and for those who do not benefit from other schemes in private banks, who like to set up and finance expensive housing, but who are not as willing to participate in social housing. That is what is at the heart of this debate. And trying to make the increase in the house-banking framework an attack on the financial structure of the Workers' Party just as meaningless whether it comes from the Advance Party or from the Government Parties. Then it is that when the loan framework in the House Bank increases, some income is also increased as a result of income from that side, and it is a very common way of accounting for it as the Workers' Party has done today. This has never happened in any other way than what has been done in our budget statement, and if you go back and look at the whole of the arrangement, all government borrowing activities also make such a contribution into the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e438	Let me start a little unusually by giving Hill-Marta Solberg praise because the Workers' Party has been involved in the big kindergarten agreement, and for the way Hill-Marta Solberg led these negotiations. This is a great and important promise that all young children's parents and all young children have reason to rejoice over. This will be a formidable promise for Norwegian kindergartens. So over to what's my concern. The working party has now, in many ways, strengthened a profile that I think is positive. They have a greater commitment to issues that are important. The nursery arrangement may well be an example of this. This means that, in several questions, the SV and the Workers' Party will find it natural to join forces, simply because this welfare state that we have is not maintenance-free. It's just like a house, it needs to be maintained. This means that the Storting must be constantly on the verge of taking new decisions to ensure that the welfare state is better suited to the many inhabitants for which it is intended. We have submitted a report on Difference Norway, and this report clearly shows that the differences in Norwegian society are increasing, they are not decreasing. This applies to almost all parameters you choose to enter. It could be income, it could be wealth, it could be self-payment, or it could be, for example, housing, which is also an important parameter for the development of differences. What I am therefore very surprised about is that the Labour Party is not with us on two proposals in today's position. It is possible that this is an incursion, but I will nevertheless challenge Hill-Marta Solberg on these two proposals. That is proposal No. 53 and 54 in today's vote. Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government requests action to be taken by the Government to ensure that the economic and social differences shall be less at the end of this ageing period than they were at the beginning of the period.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an assessment of the development of economic and social differences in Norway in the annual budgets. ‘... The point is that if you don't want to actively reduce the differences in our society, the differences will increase. It shows all comparable studies from all countries around us. We have commitment and an active desire for this to be reversed. My wish is that the Workers' Party was with us on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e457	Of course, it is nice to get praise, and I say thank you for that. So to what was the content of the line from Djupedal. I think Djupedal is quite right in saying that it is the Workers' Party and the SV who have to go in the breeze if something is to be done in favour of the weakest in society. We can't wait any longer, to say it like this, by the sitting government in that area. Until now, there has been really just talk, a lot of investigations are supposed to be going on, but so far, there has not been any results to the Biggest of new policies in that area. The Labour Party also proposes a number of things in the revision of the budget this spring, which is in favour of those who have the most difficulty. I mention increased housing stock. I mention what we want to do in housing policy, which is targeting those who have the most difficulty. I also mention what we do in relation to the labour market, where we meet those who have the biggest problems in the labour market. The strengthening of the labour market law is therefore very important for those who find it very difficult here in the country. There the government is running a policy that I think is an accident for people who need the labour market parliament's help to get into working life. These are very specific proposals, and I can also assure Mr Djupedal that concrete proposals that SV is promoting in the future in the budgets will be very careful by the Labour Party. I also hope that SV will look carefully at all of the Workers' Party's proposals that go in that direction. The proposals contained in the budget, which Djupedal calls for our position today, are, to say one, not very concrete. They have a little bit of a feeling about being program formulations. You can probably support them, but I don't think they have any direct significance. What we need now are concrete proposals, such as housing support, housing, the labour market, etc. In fact, that variety of proposals has promoted several of them in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e471	The approach to the revised national budget confirms that the Cooperation Government is stronger and safer at the end of the spring session. After the selection last autumn, the following price has been converted: Taxes and taxes are reduced, so that individuals retain more of their own income, and so that effort and creativity are rewarded. The focus is on quality and diversity.The public sector iscreated and modernised to ensure better services and more services.Environmental policy has intensified.The fight against poverty both nationally and internationally has escalated. The Cooperation Parties have obtained a majority in the Stortinge for the main lines of government policy. Of course, this does not happen without compromises. But at the end of this session, we can see that the Government has received: an agreement on the revised national budget with the Progress Party, within the framework of the responsible financial framework agreement on the next year's municipal economy, together with the Progress Party, on defence policy settlement with the Workers' Party which ensures consistency between structure and funding during this four-year period; Since the 2002 budget was first adopted after a cabinet question, we have heard again and again that the government parties would not have an agreement on the revised national budget and would hardly be able to keep the framework. We did both. There is no reason to hide that the distance between the government parties and the Progress Party was large and that the requirements were tough. But I think that was a willingness to compromise. I would again like to commend the Progress Party for its constructive and tidy conduct in the negotiations. We met the Progress Party in areas that were important to them: Appropriations for health, police and justice are being increased. All taxes on driving allowances are being removed. For government parties, it was essential that expenditure increases and tax reductions were covered in order to maintain the tightness of the budget. It's important not to increase the pressure in the economy. We came up with a result – a result both the government parties and the Progress Party are well pleased with. I record that SV's Øystein Djupedal in an interview in Political Quarter on Wednesday 5 June stated that the Progress Party could achieve more on its heart matters in collaboration with SV and the Workers' Party than they have received with the Government. I'm in doubt about that, but it's interesting to note that the person who's been blowing himself up most when the government parties cooperate with the Progress Party, and who in last year's debate on the throne actually declared that SV had the goal that Carl I. Hagen should have no influence whatsoever, now invites the Progress Party to budget cooperation. Such rounds do not create trust. The Labour Party has used large words and is heavily shot at the Government. It was claimed that the Workers' Party has a more industry-friendly policy, and it is claimed that the Workers' Party's arrangements will dampen the pressure on interest rates. Both parts are wrong. If there is one thing the last Labour Party government will be remembered for, it has both proposed and carried out the biggest tax increases for business in recent Norwegian history. The fact that the Workers' Party has started to undo its own policy does not change the fact that the business community has got better framework conditions after the Workers' Party government left. As part of the work on ‘Simplifying Norway’, 630 customs duties are now removed. I am pleased that the Government found room for this in the revised national budget, and that, in cooperation with the Progress Party, we are now removing all taxes on driving compensation. This creates less bureaucracy for business and lower taxes for ordinary people. These tax reliefs are in addition to a series of tax reliefs received by the Government: The tax on income has been reduced.The investment tax will be removed on 1 October.The electricity tax and alcohol taxes have been reduced. These examples show that the Government is running well. Wages and salaries and the strong crown weaken the competitive sector. The Government and the Cooperation Parties have therefore placed the decisive emphasis on keeping the so-called ‘rule of action’ and the tightness of the budget. There is no reason to believe that the arrangement of the Workers' Party would involve less pressure on interest rates, rather on the contrary. An important distinction in economic policy between the cooperation parties and the Workers' Party is the question of how to use the increased space for action in the economy: The Labour Party will use more than us to increase public expenditure.We will use more than the Labour Party to lower taxes and taxes. In addition, our government shows greater will and ability to renew and modernise the public sector. The policies of the Cooperation Party, with greater tax relief combined with the modernisation of the public sector and other structural measures, create some less pressure on the economy and better conditions for the competitive sector than the policies of the Workers' Party. Let me add that I share the Workers' Party's view that the rule of action should not be fully exploited every year, regardless of the economic cycle. However, in our opinion, the main picture of the Norwegian economy does not suggest that we should now derogate from the rule of action. Growth in the Norwegian economy is still below what is expected to be normal, and inflation is currently well below the inflation target pursued by monetary policy. It is pointless when the Workers' Party in a press release claims that their proposed changes to the budget will contribute to lower interest rates. Although the Workers' Party operates with a narrowing of 600-700 million. kr, there are several conditions that draw in the opposite direction. Firstly, the Workers' Party finances increased domestic public expenditure that creates greater pressure on the economy, with cuts in defence investment, which is largely purchases abroad. Secondly, the Workers' Party proposes to increase the lending framework for SND and the Husbank and proposes to establish a new loan scheme or fund for municipalities. This will clearly increase activity and thus increase the pressure in the economy. Thirdly, the Workers' Party is pushing new billions of bills to 2003 which come to the top of a number of issues, including: the investment levy, which must also be taken into account by the Workers' Party in its 2003 scheme. If the Workers' Party is close to fulfilling its promises, it will mean massive tax increases for ordinary people, or else they will break all the financial framework, with the consequences it could have. It is the government’s policy that the underlying expenditure growth in the government budget over the period should be lower than the growth in the value creation in mainland Norway. It may be the most important contribution that can be made to avoid an excessive reduction in the competitive sector and to reduce the pressure on interest rates. This spring we have repeatedly seen that the Workers' Party, with life and desire, has participated in the populist race that has otherwise been reserved for other parties. It helps very little if Jens Stoltenberg and Hill-Marta Solberg sit in the back seat and shout the brake, when the rest of the party sits in the driver's seat and shouts more gas. The parties to the cooperation agree that oil wealth should be managed from a generation perspective. The establishment of the Petroleum Fund and the restriction of the use of oil revenues through the establishment of the so-called ‘rule of action’ ensure that oil wealth will benefit several generations. But this is only true as long as this policy has a majority in the Stortinget. I record that several parties, now also the Workers' Party, are eager to put new suction pipes into the Petroleum Fund – both by pushing up public spending and by proposing new funds, or by moving billions into other existing funds. This is a policy that can undermine the Petroleum Fund over time, and will weaken our ability to cover future pensions, and which also runs counter to the generational thinking underlying the Petroleum Fund. The Government and the Cooperation Parties are also concerned that the management of the Petroleum Fund should reflect important values such as respect for human rights. Therefore, the Government took the initiative to set up the Petroleum Fund’s International Law Council. This Council has been given the task of assessing whether investment under the auspices of the Petroleum Fund may violate international obligations. The majority of the financial committee now proposes the establishment of a new selection to assess the ethical guidelines of the Petroleum Fund. Of course, the cooperation parties have nothing against it. We proposed a different solution, namely that the Swedish Council of Human Rights should make an ongoing assessment of the ethical guidelines to see if they can be further developed. But once a new selection has been proposed, we will of course vote in favour of that proposal. Let me just finally refer to proposal No. 76, from the cooperation parties and the Progress Party, which has been distributed on the basis of the fact that, in the event of an incursion, it has not been included in the vote. I use the opportunity to address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e608	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e613	Throughout the winter, we have experienced that not least the government parties have called around themselves that the Workers' Party was now in opposition and was willing to use so much more than in position. Then, in the revised national budget, the Workers' Party has put forward an economic structure that is within the framework of the rule of action, and which is even a bit tighter than the government provided. It has obviously made a strong impression on the government parties, not least the representative Sanner, who has spent an infinite amount of time in the last to tell you that this cannot vote. As far as money is concerned, let me say that the Labour Party assumes that the right will use in the municipal sector is the right decision in the Stortinget, that is not what the Right rapporteurs out there would have wanted to be adopted or asked for. No, we're assuming that the right goes in favour of, that's what's going to be adopted in the budget here in the Biggest. This should also be the case for the Workers' Party. Again, Jan Tore Sanner repeats part of this with the irresponsibility of the Workers' Party, as he sees it, which is linked to the increase in the lending framework in the House Bank. Now the representative Sanner has an excellent opportunity to tell the Storting whether it is such that the Right is in favour of a lower housing structure, that there is a Right's response to the challenge in the housing market, with a strong price increase, or is it so that the Right's just as good that the housing building is financed in a different way than through the House Bank? I think we deserve an answer based on the way in which the representative Sanner has attacked the Workers' Party's extension of the loan framework in the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e624	It is not just the government parties that have registered that the Workers' Party has replaced him. We have been described the same thing through a series of editorial articles and comment articles in the press – at the latest it was Haavard Narum in the Evening Post who commented that the Workers' Party has now ‘moved from being a holistic responsibility party to a populist wishful thinking party’. It wasn't my words, it was the pen for Haavard Narum in the evening post. The reason why these questions are raised is that the Workers' Party has now become a support wheel for other parties engaged in raising public expenditure, and we are calling for the Workers' Party we know, a more responsible and holistic party. When we have pointed to the expansions of the loan framework that lie within the Workers' Party's structure, it is because we assume that the reason why the Workers' Party will extend the loan framework and also create a new loan framework or fund for the municipalities is that they will increase the activity. We heard that yesterday in the debate on the local economy, with strong accusations and attacks from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and other speakers from the Workers' Party because the government's arrangement for the local economy would lead to too low activity in the municipalities. Therefore, the Workers' Party would grant a further SEK 1.5 billion to the municipalities and also have a separate fund for the municipalities, and that is to increase the activity. And increasing activity in the economy also puts increasing pressure on interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e633	I'd like to keep talking a little bit about the municipalities. It may hardly have happened to the representative Sanner and the Right House that there has been a large-scale municipal uprising this spring. The rapporteurs of the Centre Party in particular have been active, but some of the rapporteurs of the government parties have also been on the agenda. The municipal minister’s standard response to municipalities that have complained about poor finances has been that municipalities themselves need to rationalise and streamline their operations. I don't disagree with that answer, because there are obviously a lot of municipalities that have had a too light deal with money, they've got too big an administration or they've borrowed to finance performance projects. It is at least difficult to find a systematic link between low municipal incomes and poor municipal economy. But what surprises me is that the Government, when it has the attitude it has, has not provided the municipal politicians with the tools they need to make the operation of municipalities more efficient, namely a general VAT compensation scheme that will facilitate a comprehensive competitive outlay and probably large savings for municipalities. This is something that all the government parties agreed on in 1995 and is also repeated in the Sem Declaration. The Minister of Finance now writes that such a scheme can be put in place at the earliest in 2004. I have two questions: Is the Right, who has previously been very active in this matter, satisfied with the progress? Whether it is really so that it is impossible to speed up this process, why can the current system, with all its faults and shortcomings, not be made general, so that the municipalities can get this work going?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e646	Let me first say that I am pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party reached an agreement on the municipal framework for the next year. It is a tight arrangement, but a good arrangement, and it was very important to put it in place in a situation where the municipalities were troubled. Otherwise, I can confirm that the government parties and the Progress Party fully agree that there is room to rationalise the operation in the municipalities, and that an important instrument to achieve this is the outsourcing of competition. The VAT compensation scheme now applies to most sectors. In cooperation with the Progress Party last autumn, we also got clean-up into that scheme. It is clearly possible to extend it, but when we have not proposed it now, it is precisely because we expect to put in place a less bureaucratic and better approach that should be general from 2004. Then we think it would have been a little special that we should include new sectors from 2003, in order to introduce a completely new system from 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e653	I record that the representative Sanner is now focusing on the desire for ethical guidelines for the oil fund. One may wonder, of course, that what is an obvious position today was not when the Financial Committee gave its opinion one week ago, but we are, of course, pleased about the possibility of having a unanimous increase behind that wish. Otherwise, it must be appropriate to congratulate the representative, Mr Sanner, once again, on having had such a strong impact on his own party's policy in a government that really consists of three different parties. Because there is one thing that we can establish after the treatment of the revised national budget, it is that they have once again had an impact on strongly right-wing priorities. In a situation where there are several billions of fresh money to be spent, there is the greatest concern about increased expenditure on defence, reducing customs duties, etc., and not about fulfilling the electoral commitments made by the cooperation parties with regard to school and public transport in the autumn. This is, of course, reinforced by the agreement with the Progress Party, and we see a picture where the Right first negotiates Right Policy in the Government, and then negotiate even more Right Policy in the extra rounds with the Advance Party. It ends with a cut in aid, a cut in transfers to the districts, a cut in actions such as competence development programmes, etc. And the most important thing: the right, which used the entire election campaign to talk about the need for a better school, admits in the submitted budget that municipalities will have to reduce their activity with this scheme. Then I would like to remind you that in February, State Council Victor D. Norman said to Bergen's Official Journal: «We must provide a financial framework which does not allow the smallest municipalities to be self-sufficient.» This was then explained out as an advance, but I think it is natural to ask whether it is so to understand that from now on the Right will use the budgets to achieve just this goal? And one more thing: isn't it to keep people fooling around first running election campaigns where you talk about school, and then to put in a budget where those who are going to provide school services don't get money to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e670	If there's going to be less money for school, it's not to be overlooked that it's because other parties are now giving priority to kindergarten rather than upgrading school. I am, of course, pleased that the Right has been implemented in the revised national budget, just as the Christian People's Party and the Left have been implemented. I think it is a little remarkable that when the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken is going to ram up what has been prioritised in the revised national budget, he only points to defence and customs duties, without mentioning that the biggest part actually goes to health and to the municipalities. It is the health services and the municipalities that are the victors in the government's arrangement. Let me also remind you that the level of assistance has been maintained. When the government parties did not primarily address the proposal concerning the ethical guidelines, which were promoted by SV, it is because we had another proposal. We believed that it was sufficient and perhaps even better that the Swedish Council of Human Rights should make an ongoing assessment of the ethical guidelines. But when there's now a majority to set up a new sample, fortunately we don't have anything against it. When it comes to meeting the Progress Party, it is actually SV who has invited the Advance Party to work together on the budget, and I assume that when sending out the invitation, SV has also been prepared to meet the Advance Party. I have negotiated with Siv Jensen, so I know that then there would also have been a tough demand for lower charges on the car, more to the police and the judiciary, if you had to reach an agreement at that level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e681	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e684	Let me point out three main perspectives in what SV has done in the revised national budget, which should also be three perspectives or main challenges for our society. SV has recently published a report, called ‘Different Norway 2002’, which demonstrates that differences in Norwegian society are increasing and are increasing in part dramatically. The main reason for this is a very favourable tax system for, in particular, capital and share taxation. Dividends on the part of the recipient are tax-free in Norway, unlike in all comparable countries. It makes the rich richer. More than 60 pst. of all dividends in Norway amount to about 5000 individuals. These receive an average of approx. 3.5 million. kr every tax-free – more than a normal nurse will earn in 12 years. More than 90 pst. of all dividends on shares is equal to the 10 pst. Richest. This tax haven of the richest is the single reason why differences increase, which is both unfair and unfair, and not least undermines the general tax morality. There is no reason to exempt these revenues, such as in the United States, England, Germany, Japan, Sweden, Denmark or any other comparable country. What is striking is that these people, who also receive this tax-free dividend, are essentially the same people who have the highest income in our society. This is on the one hand. On the other hand, we have a dramatic development related to exclusion from the labour market. About 15 pst. by those who are of working age are outside the ordinary labour market. This number is dramatically high. These are people who, for various reasons, do not work, either because they are in disability, rehab, rehabilitation or are unemployed. This is one of the greatest challenges of our society. How can we help these people to get into work and live on their own income, and how can we prevent more people from getting on this reserve bench? For individuals and for society, this would have been an enormously positive gain. This main view must have more than SV in its own right. But it's this thing that's Difference Norway, a Norway where a lot of people have a lot, where most people are okay, but unfortunately too many people are struggling to make it go around. This government obviously aims to reinforce the differences, both because they are completely paralysed against measures to the poorest, and at the same time leads to a tax policy that so much favors the richest. This is more clearly shown by the fact that you have removed the tax on dividends, so you give NOK 1.5 billion or around that right in your pocket to those who initially have the most. We have in this setting many suggestions to remedy this development, but there are in particular two proposals I would like to point out, which I also pointed out in my reply to Hill-Marta Solberg, which can do something about this. But if it is to be possible to do something about this, you have to constantly focus on the fact that this difference is not going to happen. This means that an annual focus should be on how development has been and that a long-term objective should be to ensure that, at the end of this ageing period, there are less differences in Norwegian society than it was at the time of its introduction. This budget has been prepared together with the Progress Party once again, as the local economy did yesterday. That means you don't prioritize in this perspective that I now want us to do. So you don't give priority to housing support or, for that matter, helping young people with disabilities out of nursing homes. You give a completely different priority to other questions. That means that once again I want to invite Stortinget to participate in this perspective and these two suggestions that SV has travelled. If the Labour Party and the Advance Party want this perspective to be alive at all times in the public debate, and if you want the Government not to produce annual reports in the budget on how the development of our society has been, you will be voting against it. However, if it is felt that it is important that this perspective should not be forgotten, that the poor should not be forgotten, and that action should be taken to prevent this development from continuing, then one should vote in favour. The second major challenge is the improvement of the Community economy. One of the great paradoxes in our society is that the state is rich, most of us have plenty of money, while the municipalities are poor. Ensuring that our children have good schools, ensuring good health care, good childcare and good hospitals is the most important perspective for further development of the welfare state. In this revised budget, there are few signs that this perspective is alive. The size has the possibility, if the Storting will, to say that municipalities can do their tasks better than today. This is fully possible also within a responsible financial framework. What the municipalities are affected by this year is particularly three factors that make the situation for many very dramatic. It is both a well-performing wage settlement, it is an increase in pension costs and not least an increase in debt. Of course, people have expectations that municipalities will provide good services. Many rapporteurs are demonstrating against this approach these days. The rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party are being heard by the whole group, and so are the rapporteurs of the Right, simply because they do not understand the unreasonableness of the fact that this rich state we have should not make sure that the offer of well-being gets better or at least not worse. We have found within the budget that we are presenting, which is somewhat tighter than the government budget, room for SEK 1.7 billion to strengthen the free income of the municipalities. So it's $1.7 billion to find a priority for if you want to. Unfortunately, we record that the majority does not want to. I believe many rapporteurs from many different parties take it as a betrayal that the parties' own people here in the United Kingdom do not want to support the important work done by our local politicians. The third challenge for our society that we focus on is that we need to shift more investment away from the oil industry and beyond to the mainland economy. So it's the mainland economy -- what we have in our hands, and what we have in our head -- we're going to live on in the future. That's the knowledge we have to cultivate. That means we have to free up capital to invest in what is the future of Norway. It is everything from training to SND, risk-taking loans to businesses, to what is initially going to create new opportunities for Norway. This means that this is infinitely important also in the context of an environmental perspective. That means we have to cut the allocation to Snow White, which is one of the appropriations in this year's revised budget by more than 500 million. SEK, 500 million. which could have been useful for almost anything, which would have been a better way to use them. Let me also draw out two victories SV have in the year's budget. One is the much-mentioned kindergarten agreement, which is a formidable political victory for all the country's young children's parents and all the country's children. It has been duly debated earlier in the Grand Chamber, so I don't have to go into it, but it is clear that this may be the most important step in this budget. We are very proud to have been involved in this, and we are proud that we have helped all the country's young children's parents to see something safer in the future. The second major winner in this budget is that we will now put in place ethical guidelines for the oil fund. For many years SV has been fighting for almost an ethical code that prevents our pension funds from being invested in companies that not only undermine Norwegian foreign policy but undermine general propensity and human rights. We've been alone for a long time about this. Gradually, several people have seen that the perspective SV has, obviously, is the only one. We have put on the table overwhelming evidence that this is not a particular phenomenon that SV is dealing with – there are increasing numbers of international funds doing, simply because the yield is often better in funds that take into account the environment and take into account human rights than in those funds that do not. We have now obviously received a unanimous increase, after that, Mr. Sanner had to go the humiliating time up here and say that he would support this. We're happy about that. We are pleased that the Government too is now supporting it. That means that there will be a unanimous growth that will now put pressure on this. An ethical code should prevent us from experiencing what we have experienced in the future, namely that our pension funds include: are invested in child labour, in landmine production and anything else that Norwegian society distances from. SV has invested in this budget at about the same balance point as the Government. We have a slightly tighter budget, but we're not going to do a big number of that because, like many, we're also worried about the prospects that interest rates can rise. State Council Foss has assured on a number of occasions that the use of money is responsible. And we'll take that into account, and we'll assume that it's well thought out. The reality is, however, that if there were interest-rate unrest during the summer, then this government and Per-Christian Foss alone is responsible. If he had thought it was right to spend a little less money to dampen the pressure in the economy, we would have thought it was a advice that we might have followed. But he has chosen to lay down at the point of balance he has, and that means that this responsibility is the Right, Right Finance Minister and Government alone. We have tabled a number of proposals in the vote, and I would like to address them. I would also like to mention proposal No. 75, by Mr Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of several parties, since he will not have the floor in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e728	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e733	There is a lot of SV and the Labour Party is united in the revision of the budget. The kindergarten agreement has been mentioned. Another important issue is increased appropriations for several SND schemes. It would, if it had been adopted, help to increase the value creation across the country. But the greatest threat now to the competitive industry lies in the high and rising dollar rate and increased risk of even higher interest rates. Deep pedal expressed concerns about the level of interest in its contribution, and repeated what is also in the setting, that SV relies on the government’s failure to see the basis for adjusting the level of activity in the Norwegian economy, and takes this into account its own approach. However, in addition, SV will reduce investment in the oil sector, where extensive lay-offs have been announced in the supplier industry next year due to underactivity. Shouldn't SV have made an independent assessment of the risk we are now facing in terms of interest rate increase and the effect of the high dollar rate, instead of relying on the government's inability to adjust the economic speed according to the new and more dangerous business conditions? An interest rate increase over the year will create problems for all those with high debt. It will exacerbate the problems for municipalities and endanger thousands of industrial workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e743	I have chosen to emphasise that this was a council that came from the Minister of Finance, simply because I do not think it is the task of Stortingen to create unnecessary concerns about the Norwegian interest rate level. But I would nevertheless point out that the Minister of Finance has so clearly expressed this. That means there's a piece of advice that we've been following. We've chosen a balance point that's approx. 130 million. kr tighter than the government, but we don't do a big number of that. The point is, I don't want to contribute to the creation of a sense of fear. We have to take the insurance from Per-Kristian Foss seriously. If he thinks it is right, I will assume that his office and the staff behind him have a well-founded view for this. So the question of what to do for the activity of Norwegian society, and this is related to the oil sector. The oil sector is an industry that is extremely exposed to economic fluctuations. That's because of both the oil price and the dollar price. This is also due to many other factors. We believe that a more long-term extraction rate is both ecological and economical. We have experienced that the yard has had 3,000–4,000 men hired one day, so the next day to have empty order books. We are constantly experiencing concerns about new contracts, and that there is a constant urgency about filling up the order books. We have a great deal of understanding of that. But having a long-term perspective on the development of our oil and gas resources at a lower level than we have today will ensure stable employment over a longer period and make us less exposed to this kind of bonanza fluctuations that we have unfortunately been exposed to. That means that our perspective is ecologically thought out, but not least economically, for the many who have their livelihoods in this industry. Let me also tell the Workers' Party representative that I am pleased that the SV and the Workers' Party have now come together in these arrangements related to the SND, which he also involved in his post. There are important risk capital, important incentives for innovation and value creation in the economically poor parts of Norway. In these questions, we agree, and I'm glad, and it would have been a wish that the Storting too so that this perspective is infinitely important for taking the whole country into use.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e752	We must free up capital for investments in the mainland economy of the future, says Øystein Djupedal in his post. The answer to how it is to be provided has already been given to this extent: it is to be obtained by taxing dividends with double taxation, and we know that the capital from there for 70-80 pst. he/she is just about to invest in the mainland economy. Otherwise, Øystein Djupedal did not talk much about business, but I would like to point out that in the comments on the revised budget, SV has given the best of concern that large pay supplements can give rise to an increase in interest rates, and that it can thus weaken the Norwegian competitive industry. It is good that we now have this newly won concern in SV for both the level of payroll and the framework conditions. I have to ask then: does this concern mean that SV has left its previous position that the country has a greater need for labour to take care of old and sick people than to raise even more foreign capital through the competitive sector, as they have said before? SV has also stated in the past that it will accept higher inflation than our trading partners in order to achieve its objective of increasing public consumption. Does this mean that there has been a change in course in this area as well? Taxes and charges are an important component of the costs of enterprises, in particular in an international comparison and for the competitive business sector, to which SV is concerned in its comments. The co-operation administration has changed its course from lying on the European tax summit to getting a completely different direction. In the budget we are now revising, SV has provided significant tax increases both in 2002 and with further impact for 2003, which will hit both business and workers. When the representative, Mr Djupedal and Mr SV, have made a diagnosis that causes them to send concerns in the form of comments on the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in the revised budget, why do they believe that the increase in taxes and charges for the same business life is the right medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e763	The advantage of getting such a comprehensive line is that then you can pick out what you want to answer, and I intend to do that. A one-sided focus on inflation, which Norwegian monetary policy now has, is wrong, in my opinion, because the lowest possible inflation does not indicate that society or the economy is necessarily healthy. Inflation within a relatively limited margin is necessarily not of the harmful. In the opinion of the SV, having a central bank manager who is now unilaterally governed by inflation is unwise. There are many conditions in a society that should also be given weight. It's e.g. Interestingly, in the US Central Bank regulation, unemployment is also a premise, a premise we do not have in Norway. In Norway, we are all one-tracked by inflation, which has inspired us from the European Central Bank, which, in my view, does not necessarily benefit Norwegian society. The fact that the central bank is completely independent of what's going on in this house, and what's going on in the Ministry of Finance, in my opinion, is neither correct nor wise. So to the fleet's concern for SV and business. We are dedicated to having a variety of private businesses in Norway. I even come from the private business and have no interest in us getting rid of our legs under these many important jobs we have. Nor is there anything in SV's policy that suggests that this should be the case. But the fact that we want to turn investment from the oil sector into the mainland economy, using public risk capital to ensure that we get value creation, bud shooting, is a sensible form of business policy. Of course, the fact that we also believe that dividends should be taxed, which is taxed in all comparable countries, is quite obvious. It is demonstrably wrong that this money goes exclusively to initial investment. That's not right. This money gets the shareholders completely free, and they can do whatever they want with them. We see that, too, with all due respect, that you do. I think the fleet is going to look a little bit closer at the tax system in our comparable countries before he comes and says that this is kind of a strange-sophisticated attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e774	The representative, Øystein Djupedal, expressed an commitment to the mainland economy in his contribution. At the same time, there are several things in the SV's alternative revised national budget that draw in the opposite direction and that attract the opposite. One has a re-priority, as the representative Djupedal calls it, among others. by increasing the petrol charge by 150 million. SEK, an increase in diesel costs of 75 million. SEK – a total of 225 million. kr – and since about half of the year has already passed, I believe that the impact of this will be at least twice that of the year. Norway already has among the highest worldwide fuel taxes, and many times higher than some other oil producing countries. Does not the representative Øystein Djupedal and SV realize that many people are totally dependent on cars in Norway, and that such an increase will be negative for most people, especially in District Norway, and more negative for those with low incomes than for those with high incomes? And since Øystein Djupedal was also busy with the mainland economy, does the representative Djupedal not realize that such a fee increase would reduce the competitiveness of parts of Norwegian export industries further?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e783	Let me first state the following: There is nothing in SV's policy that will weaken Norwegian business – not one thing! But it is clear that we believe that everyone should contribute. Our society is not maintenance-free. It must be maintained. That means we have to spend money. Maintaining our society also brings benefits to business. When we strengthen the schools, when we strengthen the kindergartens, and when we strengthen the care of the elderly, this brings benefits. In many other countries, businesses themselves have to pay. In the United States, there are private pensions companies have to pay. In Norway, the community pays. This is a strengthening of Norwegian competitiveness, by Norwegian industry. There is nothing in our budget that will in any way weaken Norwegian business. Let's take this with fuel taxes. We now have, according to the letter sent by the Ministry of Finance to the SV’s gross domestic product group, the second lowest petrol price in Europe related to salary levels. This is the Per-Kristian Foss department that has calculated for us. In addition, I have to say that the question becomes very strange, because we have been included in this revised budget to support a anti-freight fuel regime in District Norway. We realize that for many companies located in District Norway, a fuel blending system is necessary, simply because competition is too small and distances are too long. In this way, we have done exactly what Hagesets demand, taking into account the distance disadvantages that businesses in the districts have. But it does not support the Progress Party – they do not support it! So this line is going to be respectfully reporting strange. That's right, let me just say, that fuel in Norway is relatively cheaply linked to the level of pay we have. But it is also true that fuel prices should be higher. The reason for that is organic, but also economic. It's a point that in the charging system we have, there should be incentives to find other ways that are more environmentally friendly, and we say that quite openly. We have not been involved in these tax exemptions for the petrol tax in the past. We haven't been in on this either. On the contrary, we are going for a very moderate increase, because we think it is more than room for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e799	In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that it was possible this spring to arrive at a clean agreement on the revised budget. Although the Progress Party's demands were high and their negotiators were hard, the whole process of negotiation was of order and of willingness to arrive at concrete results. The main priorities of the Government have been retained through the revised process. An example of this is the health sector, which by the Government this spring is highlighted as a bet area. The revised agreement further strengthened the sector. This leads, among other things, to: As a result, the treatment capacity in hospitals increases further, and the waiting time for patients is shorter. A good solution has also been found for the involuntary childless, with the artificial fertilisation component up to a maximum of DKK 18000 for up to three trials. The revised agreement also maintains the tightness of the budget. The additional rights that follow from the agreement are the heads for heads covered by cuts, etc. In this way, the treatment of the revised budget of the Grand Duchy has not weakened the fiscal stance of the Government. The revised agreement also provides a clear signal of calm and stability in Norwegian fiscal policy. Our country has one of the most open economies in Europe. In this way, the Norwegian economy is reasonably dependent on how the rest of the world assesses the different aspirations of Norway. Therefore, such a signal of political complacency on budgetary procedures becomes very valuable. The Christian People's Party has always been and will still be very concerned that the conditions for voluntary teams and organisations should be good. In the Odelstinget no last Tuesday the so-called misionary tax came into place. This is a complicated relationship that we've been working on for years, which means a lot. for humanitarian organisations and for mission organisations working abroad, especially in the poor part of the world. The compensation scheme applicable to voluntary service VAT for Norway has been revised, and it has been found that from 1 January next year the maximum amount of tax deductions for voluntary teams and organisations will be raised to NOK 6000 per year. years. In addition, private church buildings will again be included in the budget. This means too much, for example. assemblies and peripheries to build own meeting rooms. The budgetary agreement also removes the tax liability for car credit. This is a change that will benefit not least the voluntary sector. When it comes to the health sector, it's drawing some grips, and it's further warning of an improvement in the health care system for this school. Overall, the sum of the 2002 Revised is a good touch for voluntary teams and organisations. They fasten it, because in different ways and within different areas, voluntary sector activities are both invaluable and irreplaceable. Another area I want to name is the Petroleum Fund. The Christian People's Party has long been involved in fighting for ethical guidelines to relate to the Petroleum Fund's management policy. The first step was taken under Bondevik I. When it comes to this topic, we're getting a good deal on the road, and we're moving on. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is therefore extra gratifying that the Stortinget today – co-consulted – will affirm its determination to move forward when it comes to ethical guidelines for the Petroleum Fund. After the agreement with the Progress Party on the revised national budget in 2002, the Christian People's Party was partly strongly criticised for having participated in the aid budget through the revised process. But the claim is short and well incorrect. Firstly, the percentage of assistance is not weighted. It's still at 0.92 – and it's never taller. In addition, in previous treatments of the revised national budget, funds have been transferred from traditional aid grants to ODA-approved refugee expenditure. This year, the government proposed to add SEK 167 million in fresh funds. kr in the revised national budget. Although this was reduced by 49 million. kr through the revised process, it is an undeniable fact that the aid budget is strengthened by 118 million. kr. As a result, the debt from the aid budget is completely meaningless. The Christian People's Party has had, has and will always have a strong and genuine commitment to the poorest of the poor. The Sem Declaration defines a clear value foundation for the Cooperation Government’s policy. Furthermore, one of the Cooperation Organization's objectives is to put the individual human being in the centre. We want this to permeate the government's policy in all areas. By way of exception: the examples that I have considered related to good health provision, redefinite framework conditions for voluntary teams and organisations, ethical defence management of the Petroleum Fund and a good aid policy help us to fulfil this objective. This coincides with the Government's main objective of economic policy, easy work for all, increased value creation, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. We also know that a strong and competitive business life is a necessary commitment to achieving these goals. In order to make this possible, it is necessary that we pursue a fiscal policy that can contribute to, among other things. a defensive level of interest that does not lead us into a spiral of inflation. In this way, there will be a close link and interdependence between the objectives of practical policy and economic policy. Against this background, I am overconfident that the draft revised 2002 national budget that we are currently dealing with will help to meet the long-term objectives of our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e836	I notice that the representative Sørfonn was very pleased with what the government partners get, and with the agreement on the revised national budget that they have now entered into together with the Progress Party. But when you've been following the Christian People's Party's policy over a few years, this actually seems a little amazing to me, and actually almost a little troubling. If one has listened to the debate both yesterday and today, one knows that the Labour Party, among others. is the debt of an irresponsible economic policy, that is to say, we are making a big commitment to next year's budget. The fact is, it's the government party that has already put big bonds in the Sem Declaration, where one has promised $30 billion in tax bills over a four-year period. This means that the Government is desperately in need of funding, and this means that the rule of action is stifled to the maximum, so that a phase in the return of the oil fund as far as the rule of action allows, with the consequences it can have for interest rates, for competitive industries, which are largely out in the districts, and for district policy instruments. After all, we saw in the budget that there were cuts in SND, municipal food funds, and other district policy instruments. From what the Christian People's Party has always said, I simply have to ask: Does the Christian People's Party feel well about this? Otherwise, I would like to challenge Sørfonn in a few areas: I have understood that the Government agrees with us that the camp school should be free, including travel and subsistence. But there is no full state funding for it. In fact, there is about one missing. Fifteen million. kr. Does Sørfonn think that it is right that the municipalities should take this burden when the state has now decided to do so, when there is such a pressing situation in the municipal sector as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e843	To start with the last one first: as far as I'm concerned, the thing about clay balls, that's what the Stoltenberg government suggested in its time, so there's enough common responsibility in that way and a common challenge if this is going to change. So maybe the representative Rudihagen can also come with useful play out of his stand and say the story at that particular point. So I got a question as to whether I felt good about the situation that we're in. I hope that through my article I found that we are reasonably satisfied. I don't feel overwhelmed in any way and feel that we've had a good impact on the Christian People's Party's policies in different areas. I chose some themes that I was in on. We also know that this government is a cooperative government and a minority government. In such a situation, there will always be questions of taking and giving and finding practical compromises and practical solutions. But I can confirm – and reassure the representative Rudihagen – that this is not a situation that is impossible for us to live with, rather the opposite. When it's about Rudihagen, and the Labour Party's policy, it bothers me a little bit, and I can't figure it out completely. Because on the one hand they're talking about tightening up, while on the other hand they have a lot of good purposes that I'm told in individual terms. But the sum of this, when you put it on top of each other, is going to be really big. And when one then solves that way that a small amount of money this year – that is, the measures start late, so that it will be cheap this year – that will have a big full-year impact for the next year, it is a problem to make this happen together. Here I wear a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e852	The representative of Sørfonn mentioned in his statement that one of the negotiations with the Progress Party has removed the tax on kilometre freight, and that is, of course, very positive. What the representative Sørfonn did not mention was that we still have a very untimely tax on a company car – especially for two reasons. Firstly, in a relatively short period of time, the pattern of private use has increased from 8 000 km per. years to 13 000 km per year; years, while actual figures from a LeasePlan survey show that company cars run on average 8 500 km private per year. years. One then gets a tax of 4 500 km more than the company cars on average drive privately. I would like to have an explanation from the representative Sørfonn on how the Christian People's Party and the government party can defend this. Taxes on company cars are also unimaginable because one has a consistently higher tax rate than one gets in evidence to make their private car available to employers. If a private car has a cost of more than NOK 250000 and one makes it available for consultation in the work context, you will receive a NOK 3 per person. km. But if this is a company car, and one uses it privately, the value according to the state's calculations is 6.40 kroner. I would like to have an answer as to how it turns out that the same car has a cost per person. km of NOK 3 when an owner owns it, so NOK 6.40 when it is an employer who owns the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e860	The taxation of company cars and the taxation of kilometre freight may in some respects be close to each other, so that a moving transition takes place, but in most cases this is about two different sizes and two different conditions. And even before business – I think I myself have a reasonable knowledge of business and their attitudes – when it comes to a company car, it has been a certain acceptance in the environment I've been traveling in, because a tolerance to have the taxation of company cars at a high level. In quite many cases, there is no need for a company car. On the other hand, when it comes to kilometre freight, there will be a lot of other groups that come under it, and so on. home help and voluntary teams and organisations, etc., where the use of cars is strictly necessary. These groups were very pleased with the change made to the tax arrangements in the revised agreement. So with regard to this difference that the representative Hagesetter is trying to construct here, that there should be an error that should be corrected, I don't get the whole point. I'm going to stretch so far, in a benevolent mood, that there may be some slipping transitions, but they're very few, and it's pretty easy to explain the difference between the corporate car tax and the mileage tax for the use of your own car.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e872	Two of the government parties have now had their main posts, strangely without naming the local economy in a single word. And it's not a solution, because there's hardly much to enjoy here. The consequences of the majority’s municipal structure in the revised version are that municipal services cannot in any way meet the requirements set by the law. There is a policy out there in the municipalities, translated from today's big decision, which provides poorer care, poorer education and more expensive kindergartens – services that are not least important to the poorest of the poor, for which the representative Sørfonn had a great commitment. In recent years, local authorities have been cutting down so heavily that the option is now to reduce supply. The spokesmen of the Christian People's Party, like other spokesmen and other municipal politicians, are trying to alert their people here in the house about the consequences. But the consequence here in the house was an agreement with the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party chose tax havens for motorists rather than important welfare services. Does the representative Sørfonn think that this tax base for motorists was the most important priority of the Christian People's Party to be revised? And what alternatives, what activities and welfare offers does the representative Sørfonn have his colleagues from the Christian People's Party out there in the municipalities to prioritize, when they now have their plans for the rest of this year and not least for the next year? What activities and welfare services are not needed in the municipalities, and as the Christian People's Party with a light heart will be able to say that we are going to cut out, cut down on and run on savings flares?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e883	I remind you that what we are now discussing is a revised budget for the current year. Yesterday, the municipal economy for the next year was thoroughly treated, but when I still have access to it, I would like to talk about the municipalities' finances, because it is very important. We recognize that the local economy is tight. There are two main liabilities — an expensive pay balance and pension costs. However, for the municipal sector, there will still be an increase of NOK 2–2.5 billion for the next year. Last year, municipalities were able to retain their additional income in the case of taxes, to cover part of their pension costs. The same thing is signaled for this year. Furthermore, a grep has been performed on the part of the Government. It is determined that pension expenditure — i.e. these new provisions — can be distributed over three years. New accounting rules have been laid down so that a damper would be applied to the municipalities. All in all, a lot of work has been done on the local economy. Now the representative from SV is not allowed to answer, but there is something I have to worry about. When the agreement was presented, Øystein Djupedal said in the morning that his comment was that this was puzzled. He was overconfident that the Progress Party had achieved more in its heart issues in collaboration with the SV and the Labour Party than they had achieved with the Government. Then I've gone and pondered over which of these heart issues of the Progress Party there was SV burned to help them, but they didn't get access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e894	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e897	We lack year work in many places and in many professions. The lack leads to expensive wage-fixing and loss of competitiveness. The 60 000 jobs can disappear faster than the fears of the Bank of Norway. At the same time, we see that the loss of annual work increases through sickness, disability and early retirement, with enormous growth in those costs. Every seven people are sick at all times. The centre party does not believe that lower sick pay and more overtime pay reduce the loss. Municipal staff are struggling sick because there is no money. The Braathens staff and many with them are doubtful about being pieces in a hard-hitting conversion and efficiencies. Because labour is people, expected gains can be huge losses. In District Norway there is free capacity. Moving jobs and activities gives a cheaper society. Moving from there gives empty houses and schools, and pressing on rents and all kinds of budgets in Oslo. The price level of small houses is three times higher in Oslo than in Northern Ireland. Perhaps the extra cost of living in Oslo is because of centralization as much as 10 billion kroner. The centre party believes that it is useful to slow down centralisation and reverse the movement flow with state support for relocation and new jobs in areas where there is free and cheap labour, low rents and open school desks. The centre lot increases the risk lending scheme of SND by 500 million. kr and support for industrial development of 155 million. kr, e.g. to commercial and municipal industrial funds. There is no capacity available in the construction sector and there is a need for better roads. There are bunkers with approved road plans. The appropriations are needed. Then there are 3,000 road builders going on a day's payroll. 600 million. kr per year is running out. The machines are waiting. The center party is proposing a billionaire. We get better roads, lower unemployment costs, safer and cheaper transport. There is capacity for increased treatment in hospitals, and the queues are long. The Ministry of Social Affairs gave us numbers before Christmas. 7 300 years of work is lost because the sick are waiting for more than four weeks for surgery or other treatment. The sick pay for these is almost NOK 2 billion, the production loss a little less. The center party proposes an extra DKK 1 billion for the hospitals, 100 million. Extra NOK 100 million for the purchase of operations. $80 million for psychiatry. kr to training centres. The profit is many times higher: thousands of freshly reported annual works generate less pressure in the workplace, hundreds of millions in saved sick pay and large production gains. The centre party thinks we have to do something now even if it's just a revision of the budget. We have to care about the messages we get. It surprises me that later on, the budget-mates they haven't heard or read, for example. on the serious situation in the municipalities. The central party believes that the rule of action for the use of oil money is harmful when interpreted so rigidly that we cannot solve these problems. We believe it is entirely right to use more oil money when this in the long term leads to: less pressure on labour market-reduced public expenditure less centralisation of bottlenecks and labour costs The Central Party agrees that we must limit the flow of oil money into the Norwegian economy and ask the Government to propose a more flexible rule of action that does not remove the Storting from people's everyday lives and reality. I mean to see many enough examples that there are several parties that have the same approach as us, but that do the arts to hide it. The Billion Curtain of the Workers' Party's Purchases in Defence is one example. The thoughts of the Prime Minister and the Workers' Party on deferred pension contributions increase the purchasing power of the local government sector with the same effect as a grant. A third example is the proposals of the SV and the Progress Party in the social security system, which the Centre Party agrees with, assuming that substantial amounts have to be allocated. In this case, the Workers' Party and the Cooperation Parties give the rule of action the right to drive ahead of the minimum pensioners. The example of a conversion of oil money into ordinary money is mentioned by Siv Jensen. The situation of many companies exposed to competition is worrying. Close contact is needed between the authorities and industries in order to create trust. Action is needed more than investigations. At the bottom of the interaction there must be a business-friendly attitude from the Government. On the table today are three suggestions on Fozen Mechanical Workshops. The proposals would not have been necessary if the government were business friendly. It refuses to recognise that the yard support legislation has become ‘heavy hat’. The scheme to benefit the yard has become the opposite. The fossil deserves the medal for social activities, and I believe that the charge against them must be immediately dropped. Another example is Tuesday’s decision on climate allowances which industry believes could lead to bankruptcy and lower climate gains. A third example is the proposal to remove customs duties, among others. fishing nets, which may threaten 1 000 jobs. I repeat: we need a government that cares more about Norwegian business. Can it happen without a shift? Then I will be able to bring up the proposals from the Central Party and the proposal that is in my name.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e944	The representative Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e949	I fully share Morten Lund's and the Central Party's concerns about the workplace, concerns about business development, especially in the districts, and sees the need to have good regional policy tools. In addition, I am a little concerned about the signals that the Central Party is now giving in relation to economic policy and the proposal that one should be able to use more oil money. Does not the Centre Party and Morten Lund see the link between precisely what the Centre Party is occupied by, jobs and districts, and economic policy? We are now in a situation where specifically competitive industry is very difficult. A few years ago, we had a tech industry that was largely out in the districts. It's gone. It is no longer competitive. We have a furniture industry that actually starts going a little bit the same way. If we are to spend more money, increase the use of oil yield in addition to what is provided by the rule of action, we are, after all, exacerbating the situation to the levels of the competitive industry, which is, to a large extent, out in the districts. So to the extent that one is going to channel more towards the districts, towards the creation of value that will in the long run prevent increasing government expenditure, it should be within the scope of the action that the rule of action gives us. If we were to go beyond that, I'm afraid the Center Party would be working against what Morten Lund and the Center Party have just said that they want to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e956	Some of my posts were about what are the big challenges today. Is e.g. the huge increase we have in sick pay, a big challenge? Is it possible to get something done about it? We believe that something can be done about it by getting the sick people healthy faster. It's a huge waste that we haven't done this before. We'll get that money back right away. I pointed to another point where we waste – the road workers who go free while the machines are standing there and the planes are rolling in the drawers. We need better roads. It pays off. It pays to get people to work. Many of the expenses are paid by saving daily money. I pointed to the municipal sector, where there is so little money that we can't do the services we want. It's a terrible pressure. If they're going to have to save 5-6 billion dollars, what is it like to be a municipal employee? What's it going to be like to be a parent, wanting to get a good start at school? What is it like for those who come with a building plan and want to get an answer to it right away? It's going to be late for both business and others that we want the best for. Then we have the districts, with free capacity. Here we can create jobs. Here we can get value creation. Here we can ease the pressure in the Oslo area and use some government funds. I didn't think the Center Party and the Workers' Party would disagree so much about it. But the question is, how do we manage to think about prevention in relation to saving government dollars, in relation to people getting sick, in relation to people becoming clients or even criminals? I think our arrangement is profitable for society, even though we spend billions of oil money, but we earn back quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e967	I agree with the representative Lund that these investments in business etc. You're going to get many times again. I have another question for the Center Party. Under the section on immigration, the Centre Party is included in a note together with the Workers' Party and SV. It should be noted that: ‘globalisation leads to closer links between people around the world due to the internationalisation of economics, technology and culture. This leads to immigration from other parts of the world. This diversity is enriching Norway, while facing new challenges’. In the case of labour immigration, the Senter Party refers to its own comment where the party expresses its intention to increase the effort to absorb labour from the domestic labour reserve rather than to use resources to import labour from countries where the level of pay is much lower than that of us. Is the Central Party talking with two tongues in immigration policy? How will the Central Party deal with an existing proposal to open up the Norwegian labour market to citizens from Eastern European countries who are applying for EU membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e979	The centre party is concerned that those who are in this country and want to be in the labour market will be allowed to be there. So that's not how it works in practice. SV referenced some numbers and said that 15 pst. of those who would make up the workforce are people you can call assistance. We got in connection with the budget before Christmas knowing some numbers, and who are in the different groups. In addition to the unemployed and those on measures of 70 000, there are 60 000 on vocational retraining. We've had 260,000 losses. 220 years of work is lost due to sick leave. 67 000 are part-time workers. 30 000 are disabled persons who want to work. There would be 182,000 more annual works among immigrants in ten years if they had the same professional participation as us. There are a lot of people over 60 who get early retirement because they don't get a job again. I think we should bet a lot more on getting them to work than what we are doing today. I think we're forgetting that effort if we're based on bringing in the labour force and there are people coming in here to work. The immigrants we have today have come here to live for a shorter or longer time. I think that's positive, and you know the world how much they do in our society. They should be allowed to participate much more. We need to be concerned about that instead of opening up labour imports with the motive that we're going to get cheaper labour. Norman State Council has said that the worst waste that is in society is the waste of labour. I totally agree with that. That's why we're going to add a little bit to what's the government's plan for large imports from the eastern countries where wages are low.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e989	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e992	The government has been given a revised budget in the Storting where both rigour and government priorities are guaranteed. This means that the budget is in place to ensure stability and to provide a basis for avoiding interest rate increases. I would like to commend the Advance Party for being a clean and constructive counterpart to the negotiations. The government's priorities in the budget are determined. There will be increased efforts on health, security, municipalities, racial security, police, the environment, deforestation, education and simplification, to address some issues. The agreement with the Progress Party has provided additional funds for areas such as health, justice and education — and the reduction of taxes. There have come many claims this spring about the government's defeat in the Storting. The number shows something else — over 90 pst. Throughput for our affairs where there's unsavoury. The truth is that this government is very good compared to previous governments. We cooperate on both sides and gather support from all the major opposition parties. Despite the good impact of the government in the Storting, there is no doubt that some of the decisions the opposition has pushed through can have serious consequences for the Norwegian economy and become a threat of higher interest rates. The most serious thing is the nursery contract, where the opposition cannot point to the discovery. They push the problems ahead and expect the government to clean up. With the opposition's nursery system, resources are transferred from districts to cities, and from the poor to the rich. Here the opposition has gone into a vice versa Robin Hood principle: take from the poor and give to the rich – or, to put it that way, Kristin Halvorsen: with the kindergarten comparison, click the champagne corks in the Holmenkol lock. It probably also sprang some champagne cork from the town where the Socialist Left Party has now begun to present its policy, the luxury yachts at Aker Brygge. There is currently a tiring development and new positioning in the Stortinget. The Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party are increasingly finding themselves together, with the Labour Party as a supporting party. The Vice-leader of the Socialist Left Party, Øystein Djupedal, will cooperate even more with the Progress Party and made the following comments on the reconciliation between the Progress Party and the Government Party in Political Quarter on 5 June: «My first comment is that this is very puzzled. I am convinced that Frp had achieved more, in his heart's matters as well, in cooperation with the SV and the Workers' Party than they have received with Regeringa." This cannot be said too often. In other words, the Socialist Left Party would give far more in negotiations with the Progress Party than what the Government did. The government has come with a puzzle offer, according to Djupedal. These are new tones from a party that has previously owed the government party to legitimize the Progress Party. Now it is the Socialist Left Party which appears to be the Nearest Cooperation Party of the Progress Party. The leadership of the Socialist Left Party has many previous strong results against the other party to bite into. The Labour Party and Jens Stoltenberg have clearly begun to position themselves on the fact that there may be an interest rate increase beyond the summer or the autumn. ==References== 600 million. kr mein Stoltenberg is the difference of interest rate increase or not. After confirming this, the Labour Party immediately begins to undermine its own so-called tightening by pushing expenditure ahead of itself, for payment in 2003. In addition, there are a number of expensive promises that will eat up more than the so-called 600 million: more for kindergartens, municipalities, tippers – the piece of research will be covered by the state budget – more for artificial fertilisation, airports, depreciation rates, the House Bank, SND, and now finally, 9 billion dollars in additional fees. When you push such promises in front of you, you don't get much tightening again. On the contrary, it's becoming expansive, and the Workers' Party's many great promises give rise to a great risk of higher interest rates. There are many who see the political transformation of the Labour Party. Håvard Narum in the Evening Post says this in a comment June 15: ‘11. June 2002 – the day SV’s patron Øystein Djupedal in one layer of order has been described more stunningly than the other as the children’s and parents’ historic victory day – can be referred to just as much as a day when Ap. transitioned from being a holistic responsibility party to a populist wishful thinking party.’» Unfortunately, it seems to be completely over at the time when the Labour Party was somewhat responsible and took responsibility for the Norwegian economy. Now they've put themselves on a superimposed line. For the Left, keeping the economy in order is an overarching policy objective. It seems to everyone, not least the poorest, whether they're individuals, municipalities, or postponing businesses. Nothing is as unfortunate for these as an unspoiled growth that pushes prices and interest in the weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1028	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1031	It seems that it is not possible to repeat too often that the Labour Party spends less money in this revised budget than the Government Party. And if it's so bad to make a deal, how does Left feel about the defence agreement, which is quite much larger than all the proposals that the representative referred to together? I've heard several times this week from the representative May Britt Vihovde. Much of it is that she attacks all the time – usually the Labour Party, but today SV also got his own. Everything seems to be wrong with the opposition. Someone says attack is the best defense, and it's usually used when you have a bad case. It probably thickens the left they have. I actually thought a minority government would benefit from having more teams to play with to get multiples here on the Stortinget, and I wonder if the representative Vihovde is content to just lean to the Progress Party to get more in business. The Labour Party and the Left recently stood in the hope of increased investment in public transport, especially in and around the big cities. The left has promised increased effort and reduced prices, not least during the last election campaign they did. Despite billions, the left has not found room for increased efforts in the revised national budget, such as politicians in the largest cities, among others. Bergen, demands. Taxes for the richest are more important. Is the representative Vihovde happy with that? In Bergen, the representative and her party promised reduced prices. The result there is now, as in many other places – after the revised budget and the hopelessness of not having received money – increases the price of 10 pst. Is the representative happy with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1042	As I said in my main post, the government has actually got through for 90 pst. of his affairs proceed in this hall. Most of these cases have actually been dealt with in collaboration with the Labour Party. A government can have a variable multiple – we have three different opposition parties that we can go to to get multiples for our business – and therefore, in most of the cases, we have a cooperation with the Labour Party. In the revised national budget, there is also a proposal for increased efforts in the field of public transport – there is actually an increased commitment to the railways. There is no more money directly for collective action, but there is more money in the municipalities and municipalities – and then it has to be up to the county councils and municipalities to give priority. So I want to say the same thing as I said when we discussed the collective message in this room, that the left has never opted for the first thing we would do, was to reduce the prices. We have gone to the choice of quality, quantity and regularity, and we have gone to the choice of student discount. The Sem statement says that during this period we will have NOK 1.5 to 2 billion more. We have provided leadership for the municipalities to be the municipalities that the state supports more. There we have some challenges both in Rogaland and in Hordaland – perhaps especially in Hordaland, as the representative addressed – but this is what we actually intend to do. But in the revision of this budget – where we added great added value to the municipalities and health, which was important – we have not found room for this money this time. But I record that the Labour Party also has a lot of money for collective purposes – I didn't take it up with me – as well as other good measures that the Labour Party is now going to include in the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1051	I would first like to thank Mr Vihovde for the fact that the Left is also standing in the ranks of those who commend the Progress Party today. It's a little unfamiliar to us, because we're kind of used to getting shut up. But it's nice to change. The left has previously been concerned with what they have called ‘Simplifying Norway’. State Council Sponheim just made this a heart issue in the central government in its time – not to mention the very big results. The Sem Declaration states that the cooperation parties will ensure a simpler Freedom Norway and that small teams and associations will be able to operate nearly form-free. My question is about the Government's proposal for a VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. The scheme shall compensate for the extended service VAT. Now it turns out that the organisations are very critical of the scheme – it will be labour-intensive for the organisations, require a high level of competence and be bureaucratic. It will be easy for many small organisations, because they are completely out of order because of a high lower limit. Does the Left consider this to be in line with the goal of a simpler Freedom Norway? If not, what scheme does the Left want to introduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1060	The representative, Monsen, mentioned that the project «Simplify Norway» was launched by State Councillor Lars Sponheim under the Bondevik I government – and that is true. A very good job was done, but it was put in a drawer at the change of government. Now this has emerged again, and with a greater click on having it completed. So the project 'Simplify Norway' is in progress. The left is occupied by voluntary Norway. We're concerned that these are tasks that people most want to join. Most people want to spend something and contribute something with others. Therefore, it is important to take care of voluntary Norway. When it comes to this compensation scheme, our goal was to make it the most accurate, as fair as possible, and to cover the actual costs. This system may be somewhat bureaucratic, but we have said that it must be evaluated after 2003. But the goal of the scheme being the most accurate and as fair as possible was the most important thing in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1069	I record that the representative from the Left uses most of his post to talk about other parties – and much of the time to talk about SV. I can understand that, because if you were to concentrate on setting up the left-wing electoral campaigns that have been implemented in the budget, that would have been done very quickly. The left has, among others: presented as a party prioritising the environment and public transport. In a situation where there are more government councils than you have big business representatives, you might think that this would be something of which the budget presented – and the revision – was marked. But it doesn't. When I say that, I haven't forgotten the local collective discounts that are in the revised national budget. We in SV are happy that it has come in, even if we wish you had gone further and got a bigger discount. Nevertheless, this budget, in this revision round, has had several billions of fresh dollars to spend on different purposes that you want to prioritize. Nevertheless, the government has not been able to find 15 million. kr that would be necessary to get a proper student discount back on the NSB long-range train. This is a situation that has allowed students who study on a different side of the country than where they are registered to go home less often than before. It's in this context that we're talking about small amounts of money that were going to change this. And my question is, why has the Left not given priority to allocating this instead of the various other objectives that have been chosen to prioritise in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1076	I want to say that what we're doing is we're going to revise a budget. The representative Lightbaking says that the Left has not got a pass on its business. First of all, we had no ambition whatsoever to implement the Sem Declaration in one year. But in the budget that we are now revising, there is more to the environment, there is more to treatment for our heavy drug users, more to research, education and assistance, more to the fight against poverty and more to Municipality of Norway. That's good lefty stuff. When it comes to the student discounts, I would like to remind the representative Lysbakken that when we deal with the budget, there was no party proposing to reverse the cut that was there. It came out later. Instead of focusing on the cut, we have rather wanted to give up on 40 pst. in discounts to students and school pupils in general, rather than prioritizing it, and more commitment to the development of the railways to the slowdown that we are forced to resume in order to secure the railway network, rather than these discounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1083	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1086	The Coastal Party will provide revised budget with a value-conservative centre profile. In some areas, we want to highlight fundamental points of view, such as: on issues such as housing taxes, food supervision, border control, local economy, etc. However, the Coastal Party considers the revised budget primarily as a necessary correction to the ordinary State budget. It is important that businesses have stable and as predictable framework conditions as possible. The Coastal Party will therefore wait with new comprehensive proposals for the State budget. Then we will pay particular attention to tax policy, that it should contribute more to giving the most people the opportunity to live on their own income. This means reducing housing taxes, employers' taxes and food taxes. We will also ensure that the regions have good growth conditions, so that we have a balanced development across the country and that the pressures in cities are reduced. I am therefore pleased with the assurances given yesterday by the Minister of State concerning company taxation. She assured me that the job was to return it to the municipalities, where the value creation took place. It's very positive. The government has promised to abolish the benefit tax on housing in the current period. The coastal party fully supports this line. We are expecting proposals in the next budget to reduce the rate of house tax. In order to indicate that the liquidation of the preferential tax should have a social profile, the Coastal Party has already proposed in the revised budget that the deduction be increased from 80 000 to 100 000 DKK. The coastal party also believes that there is the total tax burden on housing that is crucial for most people. It is of little help if the benefit tax is abolished if the other housing taxes are increased accordingly. We therefore call on the Government to promote a government budget for the harvest that ensures a real decrease in the total tax burden on housing. In particular, the Coastal Party will be on guard against State pressure towards the introduction of any increases in municipal property taxes on housing. Most municipalities currently have funding for the usual municipal services. In addition, many municipalities are under pressure from the Right-dominated Government to join neighbouring municipalities. At the same time as the local economy is deteriorating, new tasks are increasingly being assigned to municipalities. The Coastal Party therefore agrees on a proposal to rectify some of this situation by granting a total of NOK 3 billion extra in the revised budget to municipalities. However, this is far from enough. Food policy should facilitate better and cheaper food, and improve public health, animal and plant health. We strongly regret that we did not receive support from the other parties on the Stortinget when we proposed a halving of the food tax in the previous state budget. We will come back to this proposal later. In the revised budget, we now have an opportunity to play around the Food Authority. The Coastal Party wants food surveillance. This will provide the best use of resources and a more holistic approach to issues related to food surveillance, food control and animal health. The matter has to be investigated in particular with regard to economics, laboratory organisation, relation to community health services and environmental health protection. An important principle in all control activities is that the control body is independent from the control body. There should therefore be a minimum mix of food surveillance and food producers’ organisations and enterprises. Therefore, it is important that a business - neutral department is given the responsibility for the new food supervision. Here, the Ministry of Health is almost self-written by the fact that it is also the premiscuous supplier of supervision. No one has earned us a rivalry between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries. As regards the location of such supervision, it should be located in the middle of Norway, on the coast, where Bodø is a good alternative. In the agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, an increase of 6 million has been proposed in the allocation of border control. kr. The coastal party sees this as a step in the right direction, as border controls are currently very poor, and large resources need to be used to deal with immigration and obviously groundless applications for asylum. There are also some illegal unregistered immigration that should be brought under control. However, we believe that the proposed appropriations are at best a political signal as to which direction we should go. There is a need to allocate a lot more resources if you want to achieve practical results. The coastal party will therefore come back to this matter in the next year's budget. The coastal party would point out that there is not only a lack of resources that makes border control difficult. The main problem is that Norway is subject to the Schengen system. This means that the Norwegian and Nordic border controls against the EU countries on the continent are fully liquidated. Any person legally or illegally residing in the Schengen area may freely travel to Norway without risking personal checks at the border. This system must be phased out in order to control immigration to Norway. I'll come back to our suggestions in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1115	Norwegian competitive business wear and tear. High interest rates, high interest rates and several years of expensive payroll have reduced competitiveness relative to the rest of the world. Specific environmental requirements, as decided by the Stortinget on Tuesday, also do not help in the situation. The Norwegian export industry is struggling to sell its goods. The costs increase, and the hall goes down. Exports to this year have decreased by nearly 10 pst. In addition, we feel that foreign goods are becoming cheaper in our own home market. Notification of permits, cancellations, closures or relocations of production has become a daily affair. The industry is in a blizzard that is more powerful than for a long time. If we don't get to reverse the trend soon, it could be a massive closure of our industry. The central statistical agency has predicted that 25 000 industrial workplaces will be lost by 2004 and that unemployment will increase. When we also know that very many of our industrial businesses are in the districts, and that many of them are cornerstones of local communities, we also understand that the situation is serious. In connection with the large cuts in SND's budget for this year, the government party argued that the general instruments were more important than the special ones. And although I think that selective means must also play an important role in an offensive industrial policy, I agree that the general instruments must be in place. The Norwegian economy is fever. Unfortunately, we have to say that the Government and the majority of the population do not take advantage of the chance today to dampen the temperature of the economy, rather the opposite. There is a whole increase in the room for action that has been said to cause, among other things. increased tax input, used. The underlying expenditure growth in the budget is double since the fall. The ambition of reduced interest rates seems to have scented away last year. The working party takes the signal seriously. We have a less expansive arrangement than the Government and the Plural. Although not so big, they show a different direction. In addition, the organisation of the working party is directed towards measures for the competitive sector. We have presented a comprehensive package of measures for industry and other competitive business. These measures will improve the situation for our business, not least for those who work there. In the setting of the revised national budget a year ago, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left had concrete comments and proposals for action to improve the situation of Norwegian seafarers. In the election campaign, the involvement was great for this group. The only thing the government has done in this matter so far is try to stop the previous government's proposal for a net pay scheme for ferry companies. This is the story of the forgotten engagement. Those who voted in the government party to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers have every reason to feel cheated. The fact that these batches today will not provide a necessary handshake for cargo ships in the NOR fleet is therefore a pattern. Nor does the Progress Party want to join and increase the reimbursement scheme for this fleet is also an interesting phenomenon. On behalf of the Labour Party, I have invited the government party to a broad agreement on the framework conditions for the Norwegian maritime industry. Based on the net pay schemes of our neighbouring countries, we should now sit down together and become a few on stable and sustainable conditions for this industry. So far, the invitation has been met with a cold shoulder. The Fosen Mechanical Workshops have had financial problems because one has suffered great losses on a project. So it's created a debt term. There is a dispute between the State and the yard about an aid amount allocated to the shipyard support. Although the amount discussed is not the cause of the debt problem, these funds may help to help in the emergency situation in which the yard is located. One has therefore requested that these money be paid. For the Workers' Party, there are three things that have been decisive in this matter. We would help to find a solution that could help the yard and debt. We would insist on the principle that it is the Government that is responsible for the management of this aid scheme, and we would avoid discrimination. I think we've come up with a scheme that can meet all of these conditions. I am therefore pleased that I can make the distributed proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Government Party. Now the government gets a chance to reconsider the matter, and when they've promised to add the goodwill, I have to say that I'm optimistic about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1141	With a bridge against the Workers' Party after the government change in 1981, Jo Benkow once said: The only thing we lost in the election was a responsible opposition. Now we see again that the Labour Party in economic policy is not the same party in position as in opposition. They rightly claim that they are pursuing a more responsible policy than the Government in the context of the revised budget, by tightening up around 600 million. kr. But what does that mean now, when you look for all populist document no. 8-proposal, which sends the bill to next year and years after there? In this way, the Workers' Party can help to drive interest rates in the weather, for Norway's Bank looks at the cost-driven factors ahead of us. One such factor is which signals come from the majority of the Storting. How much extra money has the Workers' Party already spent next year? We have already adopted proposals such as the removal of investment taxes, depreciation rates, study funding and the key – together with more than DKK 8 billion. In addition, what they have been doing in these days — ranging from pushing on defence appropriations to kindergarten payments, municipal settlements, yet another increase in depreciation rates, maintenance of short-haul airports, removal of excesses on artificial fertilisation and free legal aid — is about. Six billion. And finally, the party wants to reduce various alcohol, chocolate, caravan and car charges by 9 billion kroner during this period, which is about Three billion dollars a year. In total, this amounts to over 17 billion kroner in pure money just next year. Then I have not included all the money that the Workers' Party wants allocated to various funds – everything from municipal pension funds, research funds, people's funds for Palestinian refugees and structural funds. The numbers are so large that I don't even dare count them together. Based on the future costs, the contractions are 680 million. kr in the revised budget for small sums of money of the year, not least when there is in addition a trixing with figures and the largest cut of 250 million. kr, be taken into operation in central government this year. It says all about the seriousness of their cuts, because the Workers' Party knows so deeply that a cut of this size would have dramatic consequences. I assume they're happy that there won't be a majority for that. It seems that the Labour Party simply does not understand that an opposition party also has a responsibility in a democracy. In my view, the most promising thing about what the Workers' Party is doing now is that it seems that they haven't thought into the government offices again with the first. The working party also takes a different view from that of the position, namely by presenting proposals requiring large amounts of funding at mid-year intervals. In the past, the Labour Party agreed that budgetary questions are only dealt with twice a year. But it was before. Now the Workers' Party is helping to adopt expenditure increases several times a day. But now we are dealing with the revision of this year's budget, and it becomes the majority of the main lines of the Government's proposals. With the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, the financial framework and the action rule are maintained. At the same time, room has been found for increased patient treatment, improved municipal economy and the fulfilment of the defence decision. The Government notes that it has had an impact in the Stortinget in important areas. Not only the revised budget and the defence, but also the municipal structure for next year, social security, offensive environmental policies and the rejection of a gigantic Structural Fund. When we also know that the government last harvest had an impact on the biggest tax cuts ever made, and has an average percentage of cases in excess of 90 pst. The first year, I actually think the government and government parties have reason to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1160	The Progress Party has the principle that the budgetary audit should be just that, a revision of the adopted budget taking into account actual changes that have occurred, new issues that have arisen, or new estimates of expenditure and revenue. It is not, on our part, such that the revised budget is seen as an arena for political reprisals from the budget procedure of the harvest. Nor have we been aiming at that this time. But a few things we couldn't leave behind. Of course, I am thinking here of the company car tax and the tax on driving compensation, because they were so totally unreasonable. Unfortunately, the company car tax did not get anything done this time, but the driving compensation system has actually become better than it was, through the agreement between the Progress Party and the Government. As of 1 July 2001, a number of new services were covered by VAT. This creates significant distortions of competition in a number of new areas, and will be a strong incentive for municipalities and county councils to carry out several tasks with their own employees rather than purchasing services from private individuals. For the treatment of Inster. O. No 25 for 1994-95 on compensation for value added tax to municipalities and county municipalities from registered traders, the Government’s proposal was reduced by the majority from three to two areas by excluding cleanness, obviously in order to prevent the outsourcing of municipal and county services. At that time, all the parties which now constitute the coalition of governments, together with the Party of Advances, argued strongly to make the arrangement general, but they were downgraded. The right has repeatedly promoted or participated in a proposal for a general scheme, and the Sem Declaration states that the government parties will ‘ensure that the VAT code is neutral in relation to the decisions of the municipalities’. It doesn't do it today, and according to the finance minister, it's not going to do it the rest of this year, nor next year. So it's going to take at least two years to put in place a law that gives neutrality to competition and for which there's obviously a majority in the United Kingdom. It's quite amazing that when the government wants to give priority to such a goal, it puts down a slow-working sample. I refuse to believe that there are no people in this country who can do that job much faster. This is particularly strange when you hear the response of the municipal minister to municipalities complaining about the bad economy. Rationalize and streamline is the answer. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. But it's quite hairy that while the government is asking the municipalities to save money, they themselves are not able to give them the tools they need to do it. Here it may seem as if Sir Humphrey has put a damp hand over the process! Whether or not the Government is able to bring about a new legislation, it must be better to make the poor system we have, in general, so that the municipalities can get their work started. It is important to clarify that competitive outsourcing has nothing to do with the privatisation of services. It is the municipalities that have to be responsible for the services and pay for them. One of the problems in the public sector is that there is no useful way to measure the outcome of the activity. In the private sector, this is easier. This gives the company’s profits a measurable result of the business. In private companies, business is the means and money the goal, in public enterprises the money is the means and business the goal. The launch of competition will therefore be an important instrument for the municipal politician, as the only real test is whether the service can be performed better and cheaper by others. Again, it is quite incomprehensible to me that the government must spend at least two years providing municipal politicians with the means to streamline the municipalities that they think are also the most effective. We also find the same lack of action in another important area for municipalities, namely the disappearance of municipal corporation tax. This is also one of the points of the Sem Declaration where progress has been – to put it mildly – moderate. Municipal corporation tax is an important incentive for municipalities to facilitate commercial activities and thus generate income, and so far the government's contribution has been promises and insurances that extend more and more in time. That's not what the Progress Party thinks is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1181	Through the revision of the budget, we have received another confirmation of the right hand stamp on the policy of the current government. We have also seen clear examples of the polarisation in Norwegian politics to which the accession of the Christian People's Party and the Left to the right side contributes. No one can claim that the policies they pursue serve all interests in society. Therefore, you must choose which one’s interests seem to be most important. It's e.g. a contrast between tax relief for the richest and reconciliation of differences and class divisions, and there is a contrast between increased defence expenditure and school and community economics. There is a contrast between choosing tax incentives for drivers and getting cheaper public transport. The government we now have has, with all due clarity, chosen the side. Its main priority is tax-free for those who have the most, a policy that we know leads to increased differences, a more unfair society and resources being wasted on luxury consumption among the richest. The government we now have is also the first to openly acknowledge that its policies will lead to a lower level of activity in municipalities, and lower levels of activity are, of course, a good way to say worse services. However, it should not be the case that it was giving the upper class here in the country even more money between their hands or going to buy new weapons that were the main priority of this big business. The focus of this big business should have been on, and those who should have received our attention were all those who are now in charge of state-run municipal offices around the country, all those who have to run faster to work in the municipalities of the country because their jobs experience budget cuts, and all those who depend on municipal services in their everyday lives. The focus of the big business should be on all the laborers who are driven out of work too early because the tasks are increasing and the pace is increasing, and the focus of the big business should be on the many young people in the start-up phase, who are today among those who have the heavy burden of high interest rates. SV has just these groups in its focus. We've also chosen a side. We will give the municipalities priority the increases in transfers that are needed to make local democracy meaningful. We will give priority to a more flexible AFP scheme than the Government has done, and SV has proposed that we urgently need to abolish the market-driven student loan rate scheme. Around the country, many young families now sit in the start-up phase and wonder how they have a 7.6pst fixed rate offer. from 1 July onwards, the economy will be going around. This situation shows that it is beyond doubt that it would be much more reasonable to have a politically driven low interest rate. SV has put forward proposals to this effect, and it is sad that the political performance of the majority in this Chamber has been linked to all the schemes referred to in one way or another by the term'market', which is more important than those which have to contend with the high level of interest rates. I want to take up a slightly different matter at the end: in a little-known point in the proposition, the government is talking about the upcoming ABCDE meeting of the World Bank here in Oslo. In this connection, it is announced that a bill will be sent to the Stortinget for the security operations that the police are initiating. SV has been alone to reserve himself against this. I think it's very worrying that the Storting has nothing more to say about this point, in the light of the debate that has been going on in society in the last few days, in a situation where many claim that the police are in the process of a major overmobilization, an overmobilization that has not only become a problem for those who want to make legal political markings, but who can also cost a lot of money. And it's interesting to note that the concern that usually exists in relation to high money consumption in public agencies does not seem to be present here in the hall in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1198	The main objectives of economic policy are work for all, increased value creation, further development of the Norwegian welfare society, fair distribution and sustainable development. The government attaches great importance to following the guidelines for a sound, gradual increase in the use of oil revenues in the economy. A faster and therefore greater use of oil money than we have foreseen will lead to increased pressures and even greater challenges for competitive activities. The government will, among other things, use oil revenues to reduce taxes and taxes, in order to enhance the growth capacity of the economy. Tax reliefs already adopted, including: the removal of investment taxes and reduced depreciation rates means tax reductions from 2002 to 2003 amounting to more than DKK 9 billion recorded. These facilitations are widely supported by a broad majority of the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party. The revised national budget shows that tax revenue this year is higher than previously assumed. This gives the opportunity to prioritise important objectives on the expenditure side of the budget. I am therefore pleased that, through an agreement with the Progress Party, we have received a majority in favour of a significant commitment to health, to local economy and to defence. Overall, the 2002 budget — both the treatment of the harvest and now revised — shows that the main lines of the Government’s proposals go through with limited changes, especially in relation to previous governments. This spring shows that the Government has a good basis for ruling. We can achieve a majority in three different directions, and we have also succeeded in: We have an agreement with the Progress Party on the revised national budget and the municipal economy.We have an agreement with the Workers' Party on the framework for defence.We have an agreement with SV on the establishment of a district fund, and otherwise a cooperation with SV on an offensive climate policy and good ethical guidelines for bio- and genetic technology. This is just to mention some of the big and important things this spring. Recently, there has been a debate on so-called big business. A government without a majority in the Grand Duchy must be prepared to adjust the price of individual cases. There will also be issues where a minority government will be defeated in the Storting. It's not eye-catching, but there's no reason to overdramatize it either. A count of votes in the hall shows that the government parties have been passed in 93 pst. by the votes cast with hers. In addition, the unanimous cases come. So the government has good support for its policy in Stortinget. Now, of course, not everything says. As you know, the size has also taken decisions on its own initiative without the support of the government parties. It is not unproblematic that the Storting outside the budgetary procedure makes decisions that bind large sums without being put into a budget as a whole. Of course, there is a limit to what the Government can accept in this way, without any consequences. We can't live with many decisions of this kind. But the reason why we can live with the kindergarten decision is that we agree with the main goals – full child care coverage and cheaper kindergartens, where parents are only going to pay 20 pst. of the costs. Since there have been questions about it, and I have been told in advance that I will be asked in this debate too, I say – as I have also said publicly – that the Government will of course follow up the Storting decision. But we have also been asked by the bulk of the population to investigate more issues, including: the financing model. A government has an autonomous obligation to clarify the consequences of decisions and to provide the necessary information to the Stortinget. It will also be done. During the budgetary procedure, the Storting will be given the opportunity to take a position on the whole of the financial framework for the following year. After the first major year of cooperation management, we can see that new steps have been taken towards: greater freedom of choice for individuals through, inter alia: family policy, school policy and tax policy more offensive environmental policies increased efforts in the fight against poverty in Norway solidarity with the world’s poor and persecuted efforts to improve health services and elderly care modernisation and simplification of public administration — in short, ‘Simplify Norway’ The government will further build a secure society based on trust in the individual human being and on a solid value base, the principles of the rule of law and democracy and the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1270	It is a thing, but strictly unnecessary clarification Bondevik now comes when he says that the government will of course follow up the Storting decision on kindergartens. When that clarification was necessary, it is because the Christian People's Party and the government parties themselves have created uncertainty and confusion about whether to implement what they themselves promised in the election campaign, namely, lower child care rates and full child care coverage. My question relates to another aspect, namely that a government has as its primary task of taking responsibility. The sitting government is doing the opposite in many areas. It disclaims liability. We see this clearly in the debate on the high interest rates, which affect everyone with housing debts, and which affect businesses, especially those who compete with the rest of the world. Instead of taking responsibility for providing an economic structure that can help bring down the Norwegian interest rate level, which is now twice what it is in our neighbouring country, the Government blames everyone else, on the wage settlement, on the opposition and on all other factors. It is true that there are many factors that affect the level of interest rates, but it does not depreciate the overall responsibility of the Government for economic policy, for contributing to income policy cooperation and for providing a budget to reduce the pressure on interest rates. The government does instead of the opposite. It uses the rule of action as an autopilot and adds up to increased money usage and increased pressure on interest rates. My question is, what does the government really do to bring down interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1279	First briefly to the nursery matter: it's not true that the Christian People's Party has created a ambiguity as to whether we want to do what we said in the election campaign. The opinion of the central government of the party says exactly what we said in the election campaign. It must be allowed for a party to mean the same thing today as we said in the election campaign: full child care coverage and child care prices down to 20 pst. of the costs of the parents, i.e. around NOK 1500 in 2001 prices – exactly what the Christian People's Party said in the election campaign. We're standing by it. So we've had our own discussion about maximum price is the right instrument in terms of price. That's going to be the majority of the population, and we're going to follow that up. Of course, it's allowed to have opinions about whether it's the best instrument. As far as liability is concerned, this government takes responsibility for everything we are responsible for — including economic developments, including interest rate developments, which, as Stoltenberg said, is the result of various elements of the international economy, of wage settlement, of credit policy, but of course also of financial policy such as government and corruption. First of all, it is interesting to remember that the interest rate today is lower than when Stoltenberg left the Prime Minister's office. It went down by 0.5 pst. after the acquisition of the Cooperative Government. In Stoltenberg's reign it did not go down at all. Secondly, we are pursuing a fiscal policy that is adapted to the situation in order to seek to counteract the pressure on interest rates. It is not the case that the Workers' Party has set up a scheme that creates less pressure on fiscal policy. We have made significant contributions under the so-called line in the budget, which has a direct impact on the Norwegian economy. It's the purpose of the Workers' Party for that money. It'll be a bit of a rush. In addition, the Labour Party is pushing ahead with a number of major expenditure-intensive reforms to next year, which will make the budgetary procedure even more difficult and further increase the pressure on interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1290	Norway is the richest country in the world, and the Norwegian state is, if we see it in relation to the population, the richest state. As I understand it, the limitation is what we can do here at home in Norway to create a better service offer and lower taxes and taxes to the population, what is called the pressure of the economy. Now we put a big question mark at this pressure. There are increasing signs from business that there are many who are struggling, that there are redundancies and layoffs on the rise, and that there are 70 000 unemployed. There are significant reserves in a part of our society, so we have opportunities in some areas where there are available resources. But one thing should be clear, and that is that when Norway buys services, goods, machinery or equipment in other countries, there is no pressure on the Norwegian economy. Therefore, the Government will now investigate and consider getting a foreign budget where we distinguish money spent abroad, for example. assistance? It has no direct effect on the Norwegian economy. Purchase of equipment for the defence, police equipment and equipment for hospitals and purchase of PCs to schools abroad have no direct impact on the Norwegian economy. And especially if you also want to reduce the pressure, there are many municipalities that would like to build and operate nursing homes, nursing homes and rehabilitation places in other countries. There will be a limited Norwegian crew resource with very much local labour. After all, pressure on the Norwegian economy will be reduced if we establish a very good and extensive offer in hospital and nursing homes for the elderly in other countries. We could do that if we had had our own foreign budget and given the House Bank a separate pot for grants to set up such institutions. Will the Government have this assessed and, preferably, propose it in the context of the budget next year, so that more people can benefit from our being the richest country in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1301	Carl I. Hagen started talking about something called the pressure in the economy. I think, unfortunately, that's not something that's just called the pressure in the economy. I think it is a very hard reality that today there is considerable pressure in the economy. The capacity of the Norwegian economy is fully exploited. We still have a high level of employment — fortunately — and low unemployment, but thus also a shortage of labour in some important social sectors, which means that there are limits to how much more one can squeeze capacity, without breaking down inflation and then increasing interest rates. But it is also true, as Mr Hagen had said, that in some industries there is now a trend towards lay-offs and redundancies, and that is, as is well known, primarily those of the exposed, and in particular the export-oriented, part of Norwegian business. It's mainly associated with a very strong dollar rate, and partly also with an interest rate that despite the fall of 0.5 pst. last year, is too high in relation to the countries with which we compete. When it comes to the discussion of a so-called foreign budget, it's been up here several times. It has been assessed by changing governments, including this one. When one has not found to be able to address it, it is because in the so-called tightness indicator in the budget, the different types of expenditure are weighted differently. Those who have a strong impact on the Norwegian economy and consumption are highly weighted, and those who have a low impact – such as those who have a strong influence on the Norwegian economy and consumption. examples such as Carl I. Hagen now mentioned, where business is largely abroad — are less weighted. If one were to subtract this entirely from the assessment of the pressure in the economy, then we might have to weigh up some other cost factors that would then be more strongly on the pressure indicator in the Norwegian economy. That is why, as far as I know, no other country has done, and it may also have the negative effect of unnecessarily helping to push investment out of Norway, to other countries. Obviously, if you take a few isolated examples, what Carl I. Hagen says might sound reasonable, but it does contribute to a lot of problems. We like to be involved in a further discussion, discussion and evaluation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1311	There are two things that are going to bother this government. One is the defeat that the opposition imposes on it, and the other is how much right-wing policy the Christian People's Party itself tolerates. When it comes to the first, I have to say I'm quite surprised, because self-opposed people are putting themselves down on their own policies. That's not what the Prime Minister says, that the Christian People's Party has entered for an average price of NOK 1500 and full child care coverage. What is stated in a press release by the Christian People's Party on 6 August 2001 is the following: ‘A kindergarten area should cost less than 1500 kroner a month. The aim of the KrF is that by 2003 there will be a children's gardening space for all those who want it.» So what the opposition has done is say that we don't think we can do it by 2003, we think we need to have the time by 2005 to be able to get full babysitting for everyone. And so in the Storting, we see that the government parties, which get an outstretched hand from the opposition, close the book themselves, because they protest against implementing the Christian People's Party's own policies. Talk about putting on defeat! And that's when the Prime Minister knows of course that he has the choice between one of two – either to say: I go because the opposition will implement the Christian People's Party's policy, or to say as he does here today: I do, of course, the will of the majority. There is another defeat that also surprises us in SV very much, and it is: there was a majority in the financial position to introduce ethical guidelines for the oil fund – from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV – while the government parties are against it! The Christian People's Party with its great ethical standards is opposed. And then you turn around in the hall, because it gets so embarrassing that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV are more ethical than the Christian People's Party. How in the world can the Government deal with defeat in this way and make its own policy its own defeat?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1325	The defeats of this Government are, in fact, fewer and less extensive than the former governments have had. Of course, we would have had even more of our policies through. What we're seriously looking at is when the bulk of the population comes together about things that government parties don't like. I've said that it's going to go a limit to it. But it is not about kindergarten, because that is where we agree. It's completely wrong what Kristin Halvorsen now says, that the great crowd is going to do what was the Christian People's Party program. In what she quoted, there was nothing about using the max price as an instrument for it. With regard to babysitting, there are probably several parties here in Stortinget who have said that there should be full child-care coverage in 2003. It turned out, unfortunately, to use an earlier expression from Mr. Stoltenberg, emergency stop in the nursery building during the Stoltenberg administration last year. The number of new places was frighteningly low when the Workers' Party crashed. It is not realistic to achieve this at all in 2003, but now we agree that this will happen by 2005. We also agree that the price is going to be down to $1,500. We're investigating what the majority has now asked for, a maximum price. That investigation is not available, although it has been said so by the working party team. Then there's other interesting things that also stay standing after this spring session, not least when it comes to SV's behaviour in the hall. In the debate on the throne last autumn, Mr. Deep pedal that here is the majority of another policy, which does not give Carl I. Hagen influence at all, while in the ‘Policy Quarter’ now June 5th, he said that the Progress Party could achieve more in collaboration with the SV and the Workers' Party. Then he suddenly wanted the Progress Party to be included in a budget agreement. Talk about turnaround! What we saw on TV 2 one night was quite illustrative: then Kristin Halvorsen and Carl I. Hagen, not only symbolic but concrete, took each other by hand and hired each other, which she would have apparently expected us to do down the lion's tray if I didn't do what I had promised. So it's not going to be any of that. But the fact that Kristin Halvorsen and Carl I. Hagen are holding each other in their hands, is a rather eloquent picture of what has happened in the spring session of Stortingen. At least don't come back and criticize us if we make an agreement with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1334	I'm going to stay away from new "partnerships" that have been concluded, and ask a little about the use of oil money. It is true, as the Prime Minister says, that extra tax revenue this year provides opportunities for increased expenditure. In the revised national budget, the Centre Party calls for a more flexible rules of action for the use of oil money. We also believe that the use of oil money should be sober and strict, so that the economy is kept under control. But we actually believe that in areas where there is free capacity and free hands, it must be important to get them to work and use a little extra oil revenue. After all, the government itself has deviated from principles that have been followed in the past for several years, when one spends each penny of the extra tax revenue into the economy. My question to the Prime Minister is, what would the Government have done if the tax revenue had been 10 billion dollars lower? Would you have cut by $10 billion in the revised national budget, or would you have spent a little more tax money? What would the government have done if the tax revenue had been 10 billion dollars higher? Would the additional tax revenue be used for higher costs, or would the pressure in the economy be taken into account? How would the government deal with this situation, given that the pressure in the economy is not really at the root of how much money you spend, but the extra tax revenue that goes into increased expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1341	First, I have to remind the Central Party's parliamentary leader that his party was in the majority in favour of the rule of action we have. That's almost impossible to believe when you see the Central Party's budget arrangements today, because that's where the Central Party completely blows the rule of action. It is quite right that there should be some flexibility in its use, because it should also be combined with an assessment of the economic situation, the pressures of the economy and the so-called tightness indicator in the budget. So if that's what Enoch means by a more flexible use of the rule of action, I agree. But his flexibility obviously consists of just one thing, and that's spending a lot more money. And if there's something that's not adapted to the situation right now, it is. With the pressure we have in the economy, and with the fear that many people have for interest rate increase, then popping on with billions of dollars as the central party setup implies, is at least not a reasonable, flexible use of the rule of action. What would we have done if the tax revenue was either 10 billion dollars lower or 10 billion dollars higher? Yes, if the 10 billion kroner were lower, we probably had to tighten to adjust the budget for the lower income growth we would then have. Had they been $10 billion higher, I don't think we would have used the ten billion, because it wouldn't have fit into the economic situation as it is now, with the pressure you have. That's quite right, as someone has said, as among other things. Stoltenberg was concerned when he used the term ‘autopilot’, that one should not slavely follow the rule of action. It shall also be combined with an assessment of the pressure in the economy. But then one doesn't have to do it like the Center Party now adds up, that's to add far more billions, which of course would only lead to increased pressure, increased prices and probably increased interest rates, among other things. with a regrettable consequence for Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1350	The Prime Minister is quite right that the rule of action for the use of oil revenues was never meant to be an autopilot, and that it was never intended that one should use the yield of the oil fund in any way, on the contrary, it was very clear that it was in a normal economic situation. If there's a risk of interest rate increase, you're going to spend less money. The government does the opposite, makes the rule of action the most extreme, and doubles the increase in expenditure on the state budget. Thus, the Government is using the rule error of action. It does not mean that it should be like a speed limit: if it is 80 km/h speed limit, it is not mandatory to drive at 80 km/h anyway. The speed should be adjusted to the driving conditions. It does not do so when it sets the rule of action to the limit. The Workers' Party has presented a tighter and more responsible economic structure measured with all the objectives of the Government itself in the national budget. Then the government parties come and talk about that because we've expanded the loan framework, it's going to count against our expenses. Then there is a question of whether the Government is now putting about the whole scheme of how we measure rigour, and then in case the Government should come back with it in the national budget for the autumn. It may be interesting if the Workers' Party for the autumn increases its expenditure and finances it through reduced loan frameworks. I'm absolutely sure the government won't accept that. I think we should stick to the usual objectives, and with the usual objectives of tightness, we have a tighter and more responsible structure – which contributes to reduced interest rates – than what the Government has. So short of the story that Bondevik was about. When Bondevik was prime minister for the first time, interest increased. When we took over, we presented a government budget for 2001. It allowed the basis for reduced interest rates, and before the end of the budget year, interest rates went down. Now there is no prospect of a lower interest rate; on the contrary, there is a risk of an increase in interest rate. And the last thing, in the case of kindergartens: Well, the Prime Minister says you haven't promised a maximum price. But there are various press releases saying that a nursery place should cost less than NOK 1500, and in a separate final appeal before the election you say that you should vote in the Christian People's Party, because then you get a kindergarten space of less than NOK 1500. That sounds like a maximum price.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1361	Yes, I don't know how much more we're going to discuss the maximum price, but it's known as something other than the guaranteed price, and then the public has to pay everything that's above it, with the consequences it can also have for cost efficiency. But I don't really intend to go on with that debate, because we have now concluded it. The government is going to follow this up, and we're going to figure out what the Stoltenberg government has not done in terms of the maximum price, and then we're going to make it possible for the Storting to follow up its own decision. In terms of budget and tightness: there were no negative reactions in the market when the Government presented its budget last autumn, nor in relation to the revised national budget this year. In this way, the market reaction relative to the interest rate was completely neutral. It is quite well done to say that the Labour Party has a tighter budget. So they're adding billions below the so-called line that's going to turn into activities, for example. funds and central bank appropriations, and the purpose of the Workers' Party is, of course, to increase activity in these areas, thus increasing activity in the economy. In addition – in order to have a little less consumption over the line – the Workers' Party makes the operation that although they agree with the government parties that there will be NOK 118 billion for the Defense in four years, we should not start the escalation now. That means that the Workers' Party must start next year with $1 billion more, if they're going to keep about the same pace as the rest of us. It's pushing the problems ahead and increasing the pressure in next year's budget. Unfortunately, this has also been done by the Labour Party in a number of other areas, some decisions which only begin to take effect at the end of 2002, with the full effect and for the sake of 2003. We must now seek to cover this. The working party has been a leading party to do it this way. I don't think it's a good way to keep track of the economy and the pressure under better control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1370	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1373	It is striking to see how easily the Government takes on the situation in the municipal sector, including in the revised national budget. The situation is now such that the provision of welfare needs to be reduced in order to balance the budget and the accounts. None of us can avoid recording it. There is widespread frustration among spokespersons and local politicians who are serious enough for the motivation to pursue local policies. But the most serious thing is that there are elderly, sick, children and others who depend on these supplies, it goes beyond that. There are enough municipalities that still have an efficiency potential, but many have no choice but to cut down on supply. It's too easy when the government just refers to the purely formal, that these are the municipalities' responsibilities. The government itself believes that it is good to require the municipal sector to streamline, that the specialist services should be more efficient for SEK 1.3 billion in two years, but when we propose reductions in the department and underlying etats of 0.3-0.4 pst. – yes, we will immediately hear from the government that this can be dramatic for a number of businesses. In comparison, an increase in municipal pension expenditure will be about $6 billion over 5 pst. of the municipality's free revenues and 4 pst. of total income. We think there's a need to do something already this year. That's why we're proposing an increase of 265 million. In addition to the Government's proposal in the framework transfers. In this one, there's also $15 million. kr in addition to 25 million. kr in the State budget to cover travel and subsistence for campers. The working party wants the base ball, including the clay ball, to be free of charge. The government will then end up with this as well. But when big business and government express such will — yes, even legislating — then one must also make sure to finance the costs, not leave part of the costs to pre-economically-pressed municipalities. When the Government opens up from the Progress Party, it will include the ear-marked additions to the clay ball in the framework transfers – yes, I'm afraid it will be the students in the richest municipalities that get a clay ball offer, as we know it. Other municipalities must resort to completely different options. The local economy has become dramatically worse this year because of exceptional pension costs, which KS estimates to be DKK 5.9 billion. Here, too, the Government does not show the willingness to do anything, but says correctly that this means that the municipalities either need to streamline or reduce the level of activity. For the Working Party this is not acceptable. We believe that the state has to take responsibility for the fact that these costs can be met without a reduction in the service provision. This can be done outside the budget framework by means of a government fund or loan arrangement. We mean that this does not mean an activity boost that increases the pressure in the Norwegian economy, but a normalization to the level of activity that was foreseen. Therefore, before 15 October, we ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal that includes a change in accounting rules and a government loan or fund scheme that allows municipalities to cover their pension obligations. A weak community economy and a weak business and district policy will be a hallmark of the Bondevik government, which has tax relief – and the most for those who need it the least – as its main objective. In the government budget this year, the proceeds to SND and other district policy instruments were reduced by over 650 million. kr, and at a time when industry is particularly competitive and where regions and districts have a desperate need to develop new businesses. The situation requires incentives for new business development. This is why the Workers' Party will authorise money for municipal nutrition funds, and we have given priority to strengthening the promises of most of the SND programming schemes that the Bondevik government cut into this year's government budget. There must be something more meaningful than using tens of millions to convert SND and quote people, as the Government says. Otherwise, I will finally take the training institutions. Here, the Government has systematically translated its own expressed promises and orders from the Storting to issue a safe financing plan for the training institutions, which was imposed on the Government to return to the Storting in good time before the government budget for next year. Now the Government must follow its own promises and orders from the Storting. So I want to refer to a previous post from Olav Akselsen, with reference to proposal No. Seventy-nine. I'd like to take up the suggestion that Olav Akssen had actually intended to take up, but forgot.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1394	Torstein Rudihagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1397	I will use my speaking time to present to the Financial Committee the examination of Document No. 8:136, suggested by Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen on measures to achieve greater transparency and awareness of leadership wages. The outcome of the examination in the Committee clearly shows that there are different views and approaches to how the different batch groupings wish to assess this matter. As the documents show, the Committee has not reached an agreement on a majority position in the case. I expect the other party groupings to explain their proposals, and I'll try to give the background to the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left Party's vision. There are already a number of rules and legal provisions requiring all companies to disclose in their annual accounts information about benefits to so-called senior executives. The Accounting Act lays down what is to be disclosed in the annual accounts. This account, with all the additional information, is treated by the general meetings of the companies, i.e. their owners. In addition, the information is publicly available as well as in the individual company and in the accountancy register. The transparency already provided by the regulated disclosure of annual accounts is the largest contributor to the not insignificant degree of public debate on the remuneration of directors in limited liability companies that we already have in Norwegian society. Some of the descriptions by the proposers on the background to the proposal demonstrate that this is the case. The size has decided that our current accounting law will be evaluated after three years. The evaluation committee has already been appointed by the Government and, in addition to assessing the Accounting Act, is also required to provide a suspension of compliance with different EEA rules in relation to the use of international accounting standards. The Accounting Act in Norway is a complex piece of legislation, and changes that are being made have an impact on all small and large enterprises and the entire business life of our country. It is therefore essential to ensure that new rules are practical for all businesses when they are adopted. In this context, it is important that proposals for new laws and regulations should not be decided without the impact being investigated and that their design should not be bound up until an overall assessment has been made of the appropriateness. That is why the government parties in the financial committee do not want urgent decisions to be taken, similar to those promoted by the proposers in the case. The current legislation already imposes full reporting on companies. In this way, shareholders, the general public and other interested parties are given full opportunity to highlight the information. Now you want to extend this information obligation further, and then you have to consider whether this is practicable, whether it gives effect and not least that it does not harm the companies. For example, for many small and medium-sized enterprises, the proposal for a briefing on the company's attitude to the remuneration of senior management and the expected development of benefits in the coming years will simply become a paper regulation that serves no practical purpose. For larger companies, inter alia: they quoted on the stock exchange, providing similar information on the development of wages, options and other incentives will be able to show the strategies very quickly. It could be sensitive to the stock market, affect the competitive conditions and provide difficult negotiating situations for those who might be expected to raise wages. The same is true if you want to change the stock exchange regulations. The third aspect of the proposal is the disclosure of management staff other than the Executive Director. It will be difficult in relation to internationalised enterprises that can employ foreign managers and specialists, where their wage determination may have an impact on the competitive environment. This information could in turn contribute to attracting this type of employee. All of these examples show that in this case it is important to think about before deciding on proposals for new laws and regulations for business. It would therefore be most appropriate for the proposals made in this document No. The 8 proposal is part of the evaluation of the accounting law that comes. The government then mentions in particular in the mandate of the evaluation committee that what is included in this proposal should be assessed by the sample. On this basis, we believe that it is more reasonable that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. I shall therefore refer to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1423	The Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to. Now, however, the President believes that Mr Fletten's representative has had the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox It may not be so strange, because case no. 5 first was supposed to be in this first round, but that case comes to mind after the case number. 1, 2, 3 and 4 have been treated. For the sake of the protocol, the President mentioned this. You'll see if you can get cleaned up in time, but the president records that the post has been made and that the proposal has been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1431	It is correct, as the Prime Minister said in his reply to me, that the Central Party was in favour of the rule of action. It is also the case that the Central Party, in conjunction with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in the setting of the long-term programme for the current period, provided for a somewhat more flexible rule of action, in which extra oil money could be used in areas with free capacity in the economy. This left the three batches in the configuration of the long-term program. It should not lead to the Prime Minister raising his eyebrows if the Central Party has adjusted its view of the use of oil money a little. Given that the same Prime Minister must have set a world record of taking new political positions over the past six months, it should not be alarming. The Central Party is proposing to use more oil money primarily in two areas: the provision of pensions in the municipalities, an area that the Government is pushing ahead of itself, and for transportation purposes, an area where we know there is a lot of free capacity. There are many available hands that can do reasonable tasks, which would lead to a reduction in the payment of unemployment benefits, and to a reduction in government and business expenditure in the long term. It is alarming that the Prime Minister in his reply to my reply said that if the tax revenue goes down by NOK 10 billion, the budget will have to cut NOK 10 billion. So that means that it's the oil price that's going to be critical of what kind of care and what kind of school we're going to have. It's not like there's a difference between using 10 billion oil crowns or using 10 billion tax dollars. It has no significance for the pressure in the economy. So it's a remarkable line the prime minister puts on. I have to use most of my post in an area where the government has been heavily critical. The community economy is crucial and the foundation for good schooling and care for the elderly. In this area, this Government has failed altogether. The criticism now received from the municipal sector is a criticism that the municipal minister and the right-wing representatives here in the Stortinget are not at all moving in. If you find anything else to do, the answer that comes from that team is when you get criticism from rapporteurs around the whole country. But why do the Right Representatives respond in the way they do? Well, precisely because the Right achieves its political objectives through the policies that are being pursued. More private services are provided, more public services are built up, and the primary public schools are replaced by private schools. We get private health care institutions, and we get private elderly institutions to replace the public service that we have built up over time. We get fewer municipalities, as the municipal minister had a dream about, and that have gradually become the government's policy. Of course, this results in greater differences. The Minister of Education has already accepted that parents should be able to give gifts to the public school, which should initially be equal to everyone and free of charge. Here, tax relief and self-employment are at full speed, where tax relief should provide each individual opportunity to participate in and finance welfare services. As Victor D. Norman has repeatedly become a spokesman for: a free service does not restrict the amount of demand. The need for these services will only be assessed when it is necessary to pay for it. That's the service sector we're going to get now. We don't get a better school for everyone with such a policy. If you want better schooling, better care for the elderly, better drug care and more and better youth services, then there's only one way to do it, and that's to give those who are going to do these services the economy to do it. The government asks municipalities to save, and says there is a lot of money to save in the municipal sector. It's interesting to note that every year, the Right has cut the spending side of the Departments, except this year. Now you haven't done it. This year it wasn't a penny to save on the department's spending side. In previous years, the Right has used it to balance its budgets. Now there were no efficiency measures. On the other hand, the municipalities are now able to make the large savings previously thought to be in the department offices, but as you have seen, after taking them yourself, was not possible. It is not remarkable that the Right conducts such a policy as this, but it is remarkable that the Christian People's Party does not see what kind of consequences this will have in the long term. That is why the Central Party has chosen both to strengthen the local economy for the current year through the revised national budget by covering additional pension costs and to strengthen the local economy for the next year through the municipal structure adopted yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1462	The Workers' Party shares the Central Party's concern about the local economy next year, and it is likely that it also agrees with some solutions to this problem. The center party will now have what they call a more flexible use of the action rule. When we think about the problems in District Norway, these problems are not primarily related to the level of service production. It is not the case that people move from poor municipal services in the districts to better municipal services in central districts – that is the opposite. The problem in the districts is primarily access to jobs, and especially in the business sector. With the situation we now have in the Norwegian economy, where the pressure on the dollar and interest rates leads to significant problems in the industry, especially in the exposed – and it is precisely in the districts – is it not risky by the Center Party to try to tighten it up, and perhaps help to reinforce the problems and risk the governor's prediction being fulfilled, and that tens of thousands of jobs disappear in Norwegian business? The last time we got a wave of leave, the leave, when it was turned back, was followed by a new wave of withdrawals in the districts. Is it not the Central Party that is concerned that this could be the result if we are once again going into a situation which is now being traced by both the Governor of the Central Bank and the Statistical Central Bureau, where unemployment is increasing and industrial jobs and jobs in the competitive business world are also being lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1471	It's right, as they say, it's not primarily a district problem that the local economy is weak. It's a problem all over the country, and it's a problem that needs to be corrected. When the Center Party, unlike the other parties, chooses to grant money to cover the pension costs, there's actually not so much difference between it and pushing the problems over to see if you might want to cover it another year. The result is the same. In fact, it is not the case that spending so much extra money on transport and enabling those who go out of work in the civil engineering sector to get into work will lead to a strong pressure on the economy. On the contrary, it will actually help to reduce the cost of business, reducing its transport costs, which is a significant cost burden for large parts of the district industry. I myself am the director of an export-oriented company, which sells half of the export volumes in euros and the other half in pounds. On the domestic market, we compete with Swedish companies. The Swedish companies have strengthened their competitiveness in relation to Norway by 20 p.m. by strengthening the Norwegian krona. the last year, while we have lost 20 pst. competitiveness of foreign enterprises. So I know this on the body every single day, and I know the importance of having a good competitive relationship with the rest of the world. So neither has the Center Party gone in to give NOK 30, 40 or 47 billion in tax bills, as the Right adds, or approximately. 30 billion, like the government's adding up. Because we recognize that we need to have a good public sector, we need to have good kindergartens and a good school if it is to be attractive for people to live around the country, thus giving access to the labour force of the competitive business. It is an important part of the construction of society that needs to be seen also in the context of economic policy. Unfortunately, the government does not. They strengthen private consumption at the expense of public consumption, nor do they facilitate the competitiveness of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1482	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1485	The Labour Party is concerned about the development of the competitive industry. Strong krone price, higher wage growth than in Norway's trading partners and reduced prices on the world market for key Norwegian export products have led to more difficult for the export-oriented industry to compete in international competition. The working party will therefore reduce the expenditure growth in the State budget by 680 million. kr in relation to the arrangements of the Government. A tighter schedule will help to bring interest down, and will also help to reverse the strengthening of the krone price we have had in the last half of the year. This will be important for the competitiveness of the export industry. The Norwegian supplier industry has been undergoing a major shift since 1999 and is today a modern and forward-looking industry, such as the United Kingdom. wins contracts outside of Norwegian base. In the short term, there will be a decline in order in the industry, before the activity resumes. The budgeted resources for labour market measures do not take account of the situation of the offshore supply industry. The Joint Undertaking and the National Association of Technology Enterprises, TBL, have announced that they will lack employment for around 1000 employees at offshore sites by the summer of 2003. In order not to lose valuable competences and to strengthen the competence of the future, the Workers' Party proposes to allocate funds to 500 new action sites. Half of the places shall be ordinary labour market measures and half in business-internal training. The working party continues against the proposed cut of 150 places within the ordinary labour market measures. Cargo vessels off the Norwegian coast are in a difficult economic situation. Several of the shipping companies are bankrupt during the spring, while about one third of the fleet is in deficit. Vessels in the freight fleet have a high average age of about 30 years. The working party believes that it is essential to maintain a freight fleet along the Norwegian coast and therefore proposes in the revised national budget to increase the reimbursement rate to 20 pst. for seafarers on tankers, bulk carriers, combined ships and bulk carriers registered in NOR. There are today several thousand who are in line for vocational rehabilitation. The aim is to qualify workers who, due to sickness or injury, are unable to continue in their profession for a new job. The working party proposes to strengthen Aetat by 45 million. kr in order to reduce backlogs. Furthermore, through this strengthening, Aetat will have a better opportunity to follow-up and guide the disadvantaged who will return to work. It is serious that the government parties have made extensive cuts in regional and industrial policy. We want innovation, we want start-ups, and we want new businesses and new businesses all over the country, not least in District Norway. There is a need to continue to invest in SND’s programmes, and it is necessary to reverse most of the cuts made by Government Bondevik II on SND’s programme activities in the autumn. The Workers' Party also proposes strengthening the SND's low-risk loan scheme by 500 million. kr. The Labour Party will continue to invest in local business and will therefore reintroduce the scheme of local food funds. These funds contributed to 851 new jobs and 1,520 jobs in 2001. Despite the uncertainty that the Government itself describes in the revised national budget, it is difficult to see that they have the ambition to facilitate and follow up a growth-intensive business. In contrast to the Government, the Labour Party has presented a comprehensive package of measures for industry and the competitive economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1511	A very expensive wage settlement has created pressure in the labour market. The economy is facing increased costs and reduced competitiveness. The central bank manager has announced that the strong wage growth is the reason why interest rates are now expected to increase. The government parties take this situation seriously. The government’s proposal for a revised national budget is therefore as strict as the State budget for 2002. The use of oil money is reduced because the petroleum product at the beginning of the year was lower than expected. The budget agreement with the Progress Party means that increased expenditure and new tax reliefs are paid in kronor. The alternative, wholesale treatment without negotiated results, could be costly and could lead to increased pressure on interest rates. In this situation, therefore, the Labour Party comes with the representative Jens Stoltenberg, and partly previous speakers, the representative Nordtun, and claims with full weight that the Workers' Party has submitted a budget that contributes more to preventing interest rise. It is also claimed that the Government is irresponsible, that the government parties have become spending parties, and finally that the Workers' Party has better policies for competitive business than the government parties. Clearly, it is an objective of Stoltenberg to get in the position of a debate related to any interest rate increase. But what we've heard so far is quite embarrassing. The description of Stoltenberg is very distant from what the Workers' Party actually does here at Stortinget. On the contrary, it looks as if Stoltenberg is sitting in the back seat and shouting the brake, while the rest of the party is sitting in the front seat and giving full gas. And it bears the budget proposal and the various budgetary agreements and majority proposals of the Workers' Party in the last few months. Labour Party budget cuts of 680 million. kr could perhaps have been a fine and symbolic greeting to the interest rate market, the Workers' Party had not at the same time proposed measures through loan and fund schemes that create increased pressure in the Norwegian economy. The working party proposes NOK 2 billion more for increased housing. Measures are proposed to address increased pension costs in municipalities by up to DKK 6 billion in public consumption. They propose $14 billion to the Research Fund, with changed key. The loan envelope for SND is extended by DKK 1⁄2 billion. And during the discussion of the ownership announcement, the Workers' Party proposed a Structural Fund, which could amount to up to NOK 50 billion. The revised draft budget of the Workers' Party is, as the Chairman of the Financial Committee has also underlined, marked by accounting constraints and double communication. In this perspective, narrowing down is almost a joke, and the budget is more suitable to increase the pressure on the level of interest rates than to lower it. But the representative, Stoltenberg, will not stop there. In addition, the working party has incurred costs and investments for several billion kroner from 2002 to 2003. In addition, new commitments for the budget are coming next year. This includes, inter alia: Extra SEK 1.5 billion for municipalities for next year, a child care allowance of DKK 1.5 billion, a shift of DKK 1 billion to the Defence from 2002 to 2003, and an increase in depreciation rates, as proposed in the revised national budget, cost 25 million. DKK 2002 and SEK 1.6 billion in 2003. This is, of course, budgetary bridging and date manipulation of the budget. So, in addition, last weekend the Labour Party spokesperson followed the tradition of Dalheim and promised 9 billion kroner in tax cuts. On top of this is the removal of investment taxes, other depreciation rates and changes in study funding, which have already been adopted, covering 5 billion dollars, 1.4 billion dollars and 1 billion dollars respectively in increased expenditure for the 2003 budget. Furthermore, in close cooperation with the parties, the Workers' Party has allocated several billions without any budget cuts. The common denominator is that the parties behind the proposals totally disagree about the containment. Is that what Stoltenberg means by responsibility? Competitive industry is in a challenging situation. The cooperation parties have a number of important structural measures for industry. The most important thing is to contribute to increasing labour supply in the Norwegian market. This is one of the most important measures to streamline the public sector in order to increase the production of well-being with less labour use. Employment needs to be increased. Measures that increase retirement age and reduce sick leave need to be implemented. In addition, significant tax relief and efforts must be made to improve the quality of the education system. The challenge is that the Government is not a guaranteed majority for these important structural measures for industry. On the contrary, the largest party, which today speaks hot for business and competitive industry, is an active opponent of many of these questions. If we are to ensure a viable framework for Norwegian business and for Norwegian households, then we are not in favour of overbidden policy, budgetary bridging and cheap rhetoric. There has to be a relationship between what you're saying and what you're actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1539	In the meantime, this debate is almost in line with a business debate, and it is good that the Financial Committee is busy with the link between a good fiscal policy and the impact on business. After the agreement between the government party and SV earlier this week on the ownership message and several proposals there to strengthen SND's instruments, I hope at least that this is the last time we need to use revised to reverse cutbacks in SND schemes and other schemes that stimulate local nutrition development. The SV and the Labour Party have several proposals to improve access to capital for business in the districts. In fact, it is absolutely necessary that the state beggars here, because private capital flows little to good ideas and small businesses in the districts, then maybe in what we can call nutrient-poor areas. The government has great faith that tax laws will fix the steak. But we see that, for example. My home country, Sogn and Fjordane, after the department's calculations before Christmas last year will only be allowed to flow by 1 pst. of what would be the tax credits from the dividend tax. There is not much to do with industrial policy in Sogn and Fjordane. But in Sogn and Fjordane one has tried to be creative in other ways. One has tried to stable on the legs of an investment company. It was because there were no private actors who had money to contribute. SND's tool, on the other hand, has worked very well in creating capital access, especially for district-based business. SV takes the consequences, and we fill in the low-risk loan scheme with 500 million. kr. We are also filling in the nation-wide innovation scheme with nearly 42 million. kr. In the situation we now have, with a high interest rate and a strong crown that threatens the competitive economy, it is all the more important that we invest far more strongly in innovation and the creation of new businesses. In particular, we are investing in research and industrial development in the marine sector, which the government is just doing on paper. In the last year's budget, the government cut 225 million. kr for research and proposed to amend this by proposing a 20-million lease. kr for research in the marine area. As the Government says in the proposition: ‘It becomes very important to facilitate innovation and re-establishment based on new marine resources that have not yet been exploited. This requires the use of a wide range of instruments.’ And then the government part just cuts off the $20 million. kr in the comparison with the Progress Party! So it was so important. We, on the other hand, obviously go against the cut and the permissions in addition to 15 million. kr. It's sad that the government cuts down on nutrition research, all the time it can also lead to business itself cutting off their contribution to the same, and we know that we're not very good at this area from before. Otherwise, we have an increase in the item «Landwide Innovation Scheme, Funding» that goes to good projects, such as the commercialisation of research results, so that we translate research into real value creation. Another SND tool we find room to give an extra lift is the important research and development contracts. It's only 10 million. SEK again of the grant, while there are applications of 38 million. kr. Of these, 28 million. industrial research and development contracts, which are particularly important now, at a time when our energy-intensive industry is facing major challenges. They will be best in climate change contexts, but also have challenges from ESA, which looks at the exemption agreement. For the country, it would be very good environmental and industrial policy if we were to be able to develop modern and efficient energy systems in the power-consuming industry, and to do so requires a means of research. We would like to see these proposals get multiple numbers. To something else. Aetat has been in the searchlight especially in the last year because of the reintroduction arrangement. Unfortunately, the fact that we have over 70,000 unemployed has come in the shadow of the mess tied to the rules of recruitment. And unemployment increases. Nevertheless, the government is cutting the ordinary labour market measures, which could have got people to work or could have been used to increase the skills of those who are temporarily unemployed in the industry. Norway’s advantage in international competition in export industries is that we are more competent, more efficiently organised and have smarter technical solutions. Aetat would like to help it be that way too, but then one would need money. SV put in more suggestions to strengthen Aetate, and I will especially mention 40 million. to ordinary labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1566	Providing better opportunities for non-governmental organisations is important and has always been important and an issue for the Christian People's Party, because volunteering gives a lot to individuals, who get to use their skills and interests, and because they do a lot of good work, for example. among children and young people. In order to further strengthen this work, it is important to provide voluntary organisations with better financial conditions. As the Christian People's Party has promised in the past, from next year there will be a tax exemption on gifts up to NOK 6000 for non-governmental organisations. By 2005 the tax deduction shall be up to NOK 12000. It shall be easy for donors to deduct the amount of the tax. Therefore, organisations aiming to receive such gifts will themselves send information about the gift to the Equation Office. This makes it easier for anyone who wants to give. Today, trade union quotas and gifts to non-governmental organisations can be deducted from revenue by up to DKK 900. I'm glad there should now be two independent posts. There's little luck in contrasting professional rights with charity. Last year we granted 200 million. kr for VAT compensation to voluntary organisations. A good model for how to use these means has now been presented. The organisations, which are to be reimbursed their new VAT costs, have very different finances. Therefore, reimbursement shall be provided after concrete reporting by each organisation. This is a very accurate system. For the Christian People's Party, it is gratifying that the so-called area grant to privately owned church buildings has come into place after it was abolished during the budget procedure in the autumn. This grant is loved by those faith societies or communities that have financed construction through a high degree of hard work and gifts. There has now been a majority to remove taxes and employers’ taxes on driving compensation. This means a great deal for voluntary teams and organisations, especially for organisations that have employees in the districts. In the debate today, several mentioned the removal of taxes on driving allowances as a tax haven for the rich. This is a completely incorrect manufacture. Driving compensation is provided to cover the costs of those who have to use their own car in the work. A driving allowance of 3 kroner does not give any profit. Many of the beneficiaries of driving compensation are care workers, often in low-paid jobs. Taxation of driving allowances is a burden on commuters and workers in the districts and, in addition, workers in the voluntary sector. The taxation of driving compensation was considered unreasonable because a person simply pays taxes on a profit that is not real. The work on this tax is also a burden on the many voluntary organisations. In summary, the Christian People's Party is very pleased with the promises made to non-governmental organisations and teams in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1585	What has puzzled me most after listening to the debate today is the representatives from the Right. I don't feel that they have at all been concerned about defending the government's policy. It's been a cohesive attack on the Labour Party, presumably because one has no policy to defend. Nevertheless, the Government's budget is agreed today with the Progress Party's supplementary proposal, and that is what forms the basis for the situation for the rest of this year. So it has to take a responsibility for itself. I don't want to be in any way involved in black paint the situation in the industry, but there are many warning lights that light up, and we have to take inwards that there are a lot of jobs in the industry that can disappear. We in the Workers' Party are concerned about this development, especially within the competitive industry. Stronger prices, higher wages than those with which we trade, and the prices of the world market for important Norwegian exports make it difficult for the export industry to assert itself in international competition. And what does one do? The government doubles the underlying growth of government expenditure and no longer believes in a decline in interest rates. The working party will reduce the growth of expenditure. This will help to reduce interest rates and will also help to change the strengthening of the krona rate that we have had in the past. It will be important for the competitiveness of the export industry. I believe that the government party has received the same number of letters from the industry and the employee organisations that we have received in the Labour Party, so it cannot be the knowledge that is missing, but the will. Industrial problems also lead to firms investing neither in new technologies nor in the development of new products. Therefore, in the Workers' Party, we believe that the rights to research and development contracts must be increased again, after the cuts that the Government made in the fall. We've made suggestions for an increase of 46.5 million. kr for this purpose. We think it's important to start projects to recover energy from the power-consuming industry. That is good environmental policy, and that is good industrial policy. We will also focus on industrial development in the marine sector and strengthen SND's low-risk loan schemes. The supplier industry has been in transition for the last three years, and today we have a modern and forward-looking industry in the supplier industry. It actually does it well outside of the Norwegian base. There will be a decline in employment in this industry, but I expect it to be in a transitional phase, before the activity resumes. This is why it is essential that one of the labour market agents that is being opened should take this into account. It is completely wrong to cut, as the Government does, and therefore the Labour Party has put forward proposals to allow funds to be allocated to 500 new action sites. It's so that we don't lose valuable skills, and in the future we'll strengthen the skills we have. The government has spent more $6 billion in the revised national budget, but nothing – I would say – for those who have the least. What one was busy last fall when a handled the budget, were the poor and their problems. I still think that's an important task for all of us, even though the focus isn't that right at the moment. But with so much use of public funds, it would be more in proportion to the poor and not to those who have the most, as has been done in this budget. I shall not comment on much of the Progress Party's budget. But I have to say that they operate with double bookkeeping when Alvheim here yesterday – as we heard – talks about social security and told how bad all of us were who would not increase the funds for the social security, and they did not add a penny today in the revised national budget – not a penny! Not a krone have they negotiated with the government parties. It's to lead people behind the light when a claim that one will do something, without allowing money. Finally, we have been busy in this Chamber for the European programme to continue and have a stable framework. The entire committee proposed that this should continue to be financed throughout the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1605	The Government shall, in this process, have the majority of the broad lines of budgetary policy and economic policy. Not many people thought we would get an agreement within a responsible financial framework. The Government is therefore pleased to have reached an overall agreement on the revised budget with the Progress Party. The Progress Party has been a tough but constructive negotiator. It is natural that the Government also, after the submission of the 2003 State Budget, should address the Progress Party in the hope of reaching a negotiated solution. Norway has a great petroleum fortune. Everyone seems to agree on that. The question is not whether the income from this wealth should be used, but when and how quickly. When we use oil revenues, there will be a need for transformation in the economy. The rules of action for budgetary policy provide a level playing field for the use of oil revenues over several years. Such a smooth phase-in will contribute to gradual migration. The government has given priority to facilitating taxes and taxes. This means that less resources need to be transferred from competitive business to the public sector. The level of costs in Norway is higher than would otherwise be the level of migration. We are therefore experiencing a deterioration in cost competitiveness. This could occur either through higher price and cost increases than other countries or through a stronger exchange rate or through a combination of these factors. However, the Ministry of Finance estimates the need for conversion and the resulting deterioration in cost competitiveness as relatively moderate as long as the policy of action on the use of oil revenues is followed. Today, we have an inflation target for monetary policy, which means that the price and cost growth in Norway will normally be slightly higher than in our trading partners. In addition, the krone price has increased in recent times. Overall, this has led to a significant deterioration in cost competitiveness. The strengthening of the krone price goes beyond what the Ministry of Finance believes can be linked to real economic conditions and the rule of action. I don't want to say anything about the future development of the foreign exchange market. However, I observe that market actors, and also now the Statistical Central Bureau in its last analysis, expect the krone price to weaken somewhat in the future. In the debate earlier today, I have been criticized for saying too much and too little. It is not right for me to be criticized for being too strongly ‘revoked’, as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg put it earlier this morning. I'm going to try to meet her expectations of being somewhat less withdrawn, by giving a few considerations about the arrangement that is not adopted today, the Labour Party's arrangement. It is true that it implies a reduction in the structural deficit of about 0,05 percentage points and, consequently, a corresponding weaker impulse measured by the traditional budgetary indicator. The budget indicator in our setup is 0.5 pst. So in the arrangement of the Workers' Party, it's 0.45 pst. We normally operate in budgets with a rounding, which means that these differences will not appear. In an assessment of the impact of the Norwegian economy, one must also take account of the composition of the budgetary proposals. In this context, it is also a point that the savings in the Workers' Party's draft budget are mainly made by pushing about DKK 1 billion in investment expenditure in the Defence. These are expenditures with a high import share. In an overall assessment of the expansiveness of the Workers' Party's proposal, one should also take into account the proposals to establish a loan or fund scheme for municipalities to cover the increase in pension costs, and to increase the lending framework of the House Bank by DKK 2 billion. These are measures that explicitly aim to stimulate the activity of the construction industries and the municipality. There are less tax reliefs both in relation to our proposal, the Government's proposal, and the agreed proposal in the Stortinget. The expenditure growth is also higher and draws in the same direction. Overall, there is therefore no basis for claiming that the structure of the Workers' Party should have any bearing on the future interest rate of the Bank of Norway, rather on the contrary. In fact, the Workers' Party has also contributed to raising expectations of further expenditure growth next year. When the Workers' Party enters into broad agreements with parties on a so-called kindergarten settlement where there is no agreement on the containment, this can cause problems. The impact proposed for the current year has been that the Government has been given all the powers to distribute it within certain frameworks, but the framework is quite liberal. This is the way a power we have to handle, but of course it will go beyond business when we cut into business areas. Significant expectations have also been raised for significant tax relief next year. I registered that the Workers' Party's chief spokesperson earlier in today's debate did not answer questions related to the 9 billion kroner in tax reliefs, promised by the Workers' Party spokesman in tax matters, about the 8 billion kroner the Workers' Party has already promised for the next year, is included in the 9, or if they come in addition. Such preparation would probably also be dampening, and the market would probably also observe it. So it's not getting tighter in the economy, is it? less demand pressure, by increasing demand through increased lending frameworks, as the Labour Party does. Not many articles can explain. There has also been a certain debate about history. Now I'm not sure how very interesting it is for most people who are going to pay the interest this year, and maybe next year. But for the sake of order: In that period Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, from 17 March 2000 to 19 October 2001, Norway’s Bank raised the interest rate from 5.5 to 7 pst. That's part of the true history description.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1639	I recently got an understanding of what it means when the finance minister leans forward and not backwards. Leaning forward to the Minister of Finance means attacking the Labour Party, as we have seen, for all the representatives of the Right in this debate. I had expectations that when the Minister of Finance leaned a little forward, he would take some action in relation to the situation in the economy. That's what's wanted from me today. The eye-catching thing today is that all Right-wing representatives have spent most of their speaking time criticising the Workers' Party. It may be because you feel that you first have to shoot down the Workers' Party's financial arrangements if you want to be left with sufficient credibility, and the Minister of Finance will follow this up for a while. But it can also be heard, in particular, on the Right Representatives of the United Kingdom, as if they have not fully embraced what the Minister of Finance said instead, namely that it is the Government's approach that is being adopted today. It is the constitution of the Government and the Advance Party that is being adopted. It is the arrangement of the Government and the Advance Party that will affect what happens to the development of the economy in the coming months. This means that it is important for us to know what expectations the Minister of Finance has after the revised national budget today is being clubled in the Grand Duchy far on the road in line with his approach. Does the Minister for Finance expect interest to rise or fall as a result? What expectations does the Minister of Finance have about the development of the competitive industry? Is it possible to hear anything about it? The payroll is now behind us. The revised national budget is now adopted. In that case, most matters should be clarified, so that the Minister of Finance can also give an idea of the expectations he has of economic development, which will then be based on his economic approach. As regards the discussion on budgetary indicators, this line is not sufficient to address it. But I have sent the finance minister a letter today, so he will have the opportunity to answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1650	I should perhaps have put out my post in advance, because I believe in fact that in the first part of my post I responded very carefully to expectations about the price and the relationship between the rule of action and the development of the competitive industry. The analyses we have are based on following the rule of action are the economic policy options in relation to the alternatives drawn from the long-term programme of the Workers' Party, which have the least negative impact on the competitive industry. Moreover, the extent to which the extraction of petroleum resources is applied to tax reliefs, the less one spends on increasing the public sector, the more positively it will be for the competitive industry. That shows the analyses very clearly. That's why we're also doing that -- that's why we're staying. I refer to, among others: statements in today's newspapers, where the director of the NHO, Finn Bergesen, points to just this factor. The krone course will vary, we have to live with it, it will be able to go up and down as long as we have an inflation target, as there is a broad majority in the back of the Storing, but what is important is that the Government is able to hold back also on the growth of the public sector and the powers to modernise. So to the question of the level of interest. I stick to the statements made by the Norwegian Bank, which I think are comprehensive, and which are also within their responsibility to analyse, namely that the main explanation that after their last interest rate meeting they have suggested the possibility of a slightly greater pressure on inflation, and therefore the possibilities for an interest rate increase, lies in a wage settlement that has become significantly more expensive than the Bank of Norway thought and considered reasonable. It is not an explanation, it is an explanation of what the Norwegian Bank itself has meant. And you can stick to that, considering that it was also the previous government's position that it is Norway's Bank that has this primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1657	I have three questions for the Minister of Finance. In the government's draft revised budget, the yield on State power has increased quite sharply. As I myself pointed out in my main post, there is a somewhat strange way of bypassing the rule of action that first state companies add funds under the line, as it is so called fine, and then in the next turn to balance the budget by withdrawing the same money again, but then over the line. So over time, you can smuggle quite a billion dollars into the budget and bypass the rule of action. I would very much like the Minister of Finance to clarify something, because it is clearly a circumvention of the rule of action. In his reply a little earlier today, the Prime Minister spoke about the press indicator. That's new to me. I didn't think we had a press indicator. If it is that we have now suddenly received a press indicator, I would very much like the Minister of Finance to explain to me how it works to control the pressure in the Norwegian economy. The third question is also linked to the interest rate. There must be an ambition for this government and for the majority of this will not only try to keep the interest rate level in check but to get the interest rate down. Every time the government or others get challenged on that question, you get pretty non-binding answers, the type we're going to run stable. But that is a very small obligatory answer. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to be something more concrete: what can be done just to bring interest rates down? I heard the Finance Minister himself say that we have to be able to modernise, but when does the modernisation come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1668	The modernisation work is well under way, and I am pleased with the support we have received from the Progress Party in several specific matters to contribute to it – and more will come. So to the questions. Taking advantage of state enterprises is not contrary to any rule of action. The Stortinget has never stated that, nor has the Advance Party. When you use the expression in the same'swing', I don't know what it means, but if it means in the same budget or years after each other both to strengthen the state's equity and to make dividends, there's no difference between that. I guess you could say that one takes the other. I guess there was also a disagreement about the introduction of equity into State power, as far as I remember. I believe that state enterprises should be essentially very independent, but managed through a demanding dividend policy. Otherwise, they have a reasonable right to do so, because state companies are not being introduced money into the market, but by appealing for political decisions. It is usually easier than getting money in the market, especially at the moment. The Prime Minister was not talking about a press indicator, but about a tightness indicator, which I also mentioned in my post. That the severity indicator is a way of responding to the pressures in the economy, I think should be a relatively well-known substance for this expansion, especially for the members of the Finance Committee. That there is pressure in the economy today, I don't think there is any particular doubt, but I understand that the Progress Party in this area has an analysis that differs from all the economists who are in Norway or who express their opinion on Norway. You don't have to trust bank economists. go to the OECD, IMF or other independent analysing Norwegian economy. There is no support for an analysis presented by the Progress Party in these reports, and they are still getting away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1679	Let me comment on two aspects of the Minister of Finance's contributions. The pattern we've seen of how budgets are now being settled is a pattern where the Progress Party is a supporting party for the Government. When the Minister of Finance already signals that he wants to settle the ordinary state budget next harvest with the Progress Party, it's basically just going into this pattern, but what we're seeing now is maybe a stronger degree of engagement than what you've wanted to acknowledge before, when you're already saying that's what the Government wants. This will, of course, also mean that the policy will be followed up, with the wish to bring the Progress Party with it. It will of course next round mean that the Christian People's Party will once again be overrun by the Right, because this budget will be settled more to the right. This remains, of course, to be seen, but it is interesting to hear that this engagement is now also being advertised from the Stockholm pulpit. So to the other ratio. It's up to the strange exercise to do history – how things have been, and how things should be understood. In this case, I have to say that when the Minister of Finance spends so much time apologizing for any increase in interest rates, which he may indicate will happen, I find it something special. That there's going to be a paycheck in the middle of this process early in the spring, we know very well. It happens every year. The fact that this pay settlement was a good pay settlement for the employees is also raised beyond doubt. I guess it was in the cards, too. If the Minister of Finance really thought that there was a risk of an increase in interest rates, the Minister of Finance should of course take this into account in what he is presenting to the Stortinget, but what the Minister of Finance is now doing is trying to deny himself the responsibility he actually has. So, if he thought that there was a risk of an interest rate increase, he should of course take this result into account in his contributions to the Storting. He didn't. Then he apologizes afterwards that there has been an expensive wage settlement. This determines, because then to include me in the same history-writing tradition, that only one person is responsible if interest rates go up, and that's the country's finance minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1688	I guess it's kind of weird to describe a description of the payroll that's not yet finished, like history. However, the fact that wage-fixing is part of what has real economic effects when Norway’s Bank sets interest rates should be elementary. That's why I'm not going to elaborate on it. I have not said that we should settle with the Progress Party on the 2003 budget. I formulated myself so that it's natural to go there first. But I realize that there's going to be a lot of people. You have to follow, sir. Djupedal’s opinions will also participate in the work of obtaining the Advance Party as a budgetary partner. So I realize that Siv Jensen becomes a popular person for the fall. I'm a little surprised that SV has the boldness to take up the theme at all, a party that in a short time has had a kind of twist in its ideological screw that actually misses historical similarity. Then I will answer that question in the line from Siv Jensen that I did not answer. When we have an inflation target such as for monetary policy, and we have a quite independent central bank, as the Progress Party also wants, a finance minister cannot and cannot set the interest rate from the Parliament's pulpit. I can therefore not give such exact answers, but what I have said, and as I maintain, is that the budget submitted last autumn, and the revision that has now been carried out, provides a good basis for continuing interest rates without increases. But I have pointed out that the governor himself has been concerned about the effect of wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1704	We need a more business-friendly government. I mentioned three examples in my article that we don't have it. One of the examples is what I am going to follow up now, and it is about removing import duties on fishing nets and similar products, which can cost us 1000 jobs. The presentation of the proposal concerned 630 products. That was positive. This will be easier for business and certainly for our tax service, and I don't think the income loss from this, 240 million. kr, is terrible. It's actually no bigger than the annual incentive allowance in our babysitting power ceiling. But then there comes a letter from the tech industry saying that this is dramatic for them. 1 000 jobs can be out-flagged. The centre party considers these to be important jobs. They are located along the coast in many places, and it is also important for fisheries and aquaculture that we have such equipment production. So the government's question is whether the government knew about such effects when the case was presented, because the government didn't tell me about it. I also ask: are there other companies among other product groups that are affected in the same way and have not been notified to the Storting? Finally, can the Ministry not remove the customs duties on the groups of products concerned with products such as fishing nets and similar products, even if the decision that the 630 customs tariffs should be zero is made, thus avoiding the loss of 1000 jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1715	The dwindling of customs tariffs has been thoroughly explained in the long-term programme of the previous government. There were no counter-representations from the representative Lund or others at the time. There are 900 customs tariffs left. So let's do that. Two thirds. It has been claimed in some press posts that this would have effects for networks and yarns, in 1000 jobs. It's an undocumented claim. Net and yarn today have a tariff of 5 pst. They have previously, up to two years ago, managed without such a customs tariff. There is little evidence of the effects described in some of these articles. I also think it is a bad claim by the representative Lund to claim that we do not have a business-friendly government. In fact, no government has carried out such extensive tax reductions, including: for the enterprises, such as this government. It's also a bold claim from a party that will spend billions more of its oil money into the economy, which will obviously reinforce the negative effects associated with the dollar rate and interest rate level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1725	There is little doubt that when the government chooses to spend NOK 6 billion more on doubling the expenditure increase in the budget, it means a higher pressure than if the government had chosen not to use them, even if it complies with the rule of action. In carrying out a review of the budget, the Minister of Finance shall make an overall assessment of the financial situation and submit a proposal which, in his view, is consistent with it, including the settlement of wages and salaries. If he thought that there was a need for tightening up, he obviously had a duty to do so. Then I register questions about proposals from the Workers' Party. Yes, the Labour Party has said in its programme that we will increase the allocation of culture every year in this period. We'll follow that up. We said in the last year's budget that we would increase the appropriations for kindergartens by about NOK 1 billion each year in the years ahead. We'll follow that up, of course. Last year we proposed an increase in the free income of the municipal sector of DKK 1.75 billion. So this year, we're going to follow it up. Last year we proposed an increase in the lending framework in the House Bank of 2 billion kroner. And now we're going to follow that up. This is quite predictable, and it is consistent with the Labour Party's policy. It is not that agreement on the economic guidelines means per person. definition has the same priorities as the Government. On the contrary, the parties must make their political choices. Then I record that Per-Kristian Foss has now suddenly become concerned about the establishment of a majority that does not have common budget coverage. We've never heard of that before. Did the Right have an established majority for recovery when entering into the cash support agreement? Did the Right have a majority for containment since the established majority in order to remove the wealth tax on working capital, when they amended the taxation rules for housing, when they set aside specific appropriations for research at OECD level, when they created a majority of tax credits for research? And to move us to today, the Workers' Party and the Government have signed an agreement of NOK 118 billion to the Defence. I have not seen any agreement on how it should be covered in. Is it true that this applies only to agreements where the government parties are not parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1738	I have now come to understand what autopilot is for something. It doesn't matter what position you're in, and what the situation the economy is in, doing what you said you were supposed to do last year, as Schjøtt-Pedersen now had an excellent show. I understand that regardless of the economy, the Workers' Party thought it was necessary to spend NOK 2 billion more on lending to consumers. And you're still going to do that. Then I take note that the Workers' Party agrees with the Government that there is no reason to tighten up the economy. Had the Workers' Party wanted to tighten up on the economy, they would not have increased the lending framework. So to agreements and principles for agreements. I have to say that there is a little difference between making agreements with government parties. In this way, there is a kind of common obligation to follow-up. After all, in relation to the cash support, it went very well. Our partner for the Right Party, the Advance Party and the then government, kept this very well throughout the period, and the Workers' Party also finally gave itself, for all practical purposes. The R & D tax deduction scheme was never implemented under the previous government, but has now been implemented under this government. So that's sometimes you have to wait a little bit. I have said the same thing as the Prime Minister has said on countless occasions that we should follow up on the kindergarten agreement, figured it out. Everything that has not been investigated, which is being asked to be investigated by the Government, we will investigate and evaluate its impact. But then we also have to show the effects of that. I think we're going to have an interesting debate when the Workers' Party sees the social and distributional effects of a maximum price system, for example. They shall be properly and openly investigated and presented, but no one shall prevent the Government from pointing to other possibilities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1751	To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1758	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has the floor to clarify an open misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1761	I assume that it is a misunderstanding and at best a forgetfulness when the Council of State Foss does not recall that he did not actually put in government and neither did the central parties put in government as an agreement was reached to remove the property tax on working capital. Similarly, none of the parties to the government established a majority of tax credits for research. This was followed up by the government of Stoltenberg in the budget. So in the case of the 2 billion, they were inside last year's budget. I note that Norway’s Bank changed its assessment of the financial situation after the government actually presented its budget, changed its assessment of the interest outlook and completed it slightly later on. But that was in the amount of $2 billion. I note that the Labour Party, in its alternative arrangement for the revised budget, has a tighter structure in relation to the traditional budgetary indicators. I would find it interesting if the Council of State Foss gave a different answer to the representative of Solberg to the letter that he was asked about today, rather than actually following the budgetary indicators that were always followed. If the Ministry of Finance has introduced a new practice, I find it quite alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1770	The President has some doubts as to whether this was an open misunderstanding, but the Council of State may be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1773	This was no misunderstanding, but a repetition. I'm just going to point to one important aspect. Norway’s Bank warned against the increase in loans made by the Workers’ Party in its budget for the House Bank last year. We followed that advice. The Labour Party has not followed it. Now, in retrospect, claiming that developments have become such that there is a need for greater rigour, is not a matter of intervention when, in fact, the Norwegian Bank Council maintains a strong lending growth in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1780	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1783	The right-wing spokespersons have used a large part of their posts to claim that the tighter arrangements of the Workers' Party are really the opposite. It can only be due to one thing, the fear that the majority's arrangements will lead to interest rises and a further strengthening of the problems that came into the economy after New Year's. The government and the majority see the danger signs for Norwegian industrial workplaces, the increase in the value of the crown and a pay bill that has become higher than provided for in the budget, but they are unwilling and able to adapt the economic speed to the new and more dangerous driving conditions. The representative, Mr Sanner, and now also the Minister for Finance, said, inter alia: that the Workers' Party's proposal for a fund solution to compensate for the additional pension costs in municipalities will stimulate the activity of municipalities. After all, these pension expenditures require municipalities to cut appropriations for school and care for the elderly and reduce the level of activity. The reality of the representative Sanner and the Minister of Finance then claim is that the Government and the Advance Party are doing a tightening through the municipalities. In doing so, they confirm that it will not be possible to implement the SEM declaration’s commitments of NOK 31 billion in tax relief without compromising the welfare services provided by municipalities: school, health, care for the elderly and social services. The Government and the Advance Party must take responsibility for the consequences of the policies they adopt, including the increase in interest rates and the increase in unemployment that may occur. So the representative asked for the good old Workers' Party, who was responsible and thought completely. I have followed Norwegian policy over the last 20–25 years, and when I think back on Kåre Willoch's descriptions of the Workers' Party in the 1970s and 1980s, even before that time, or Jan P. Syses or Per-Kristian Foss" descriptions in the 1990s, it is not the responsible and holistic Workers' Party that is remembered. On the contrary, there were almost no limits to the dangers of the Workers' Party to people and land at that time. In the revised national budget, there is a major and important issue, the organisation of the new Food Authority. Such a comprehensive and important case should, in the view of the Workers' Party, be presented far wider in a separate case to the Stortinget. And it looks like we get. It is agreed on the main action that the Food Authority should be a State responsibility. But at our discretion, the dimensioning of the central part should be looked at again and assessed in the light of the tasks to be dealt with. Many of the hearing bodies have raised questions as to whether the Government goes too far in relieving the central link. The government is unclear as to the tasks to be assigned to the districts and this needs to be clarified. The organisation of the laboratory services shall be further investigated. That's absolutely necessary. The Labour Party believes that the State should also take over the laboratories from the municipalities that operate them today. In particular, if the civil majority decides that the laboratory service should be organised under a market-based system, it may not be appropriate for municipalities to retain responsibility for the laboratories unless they so wish. The main weakness in the handling of this matter is that the option of including seafood surveillance was not included in the consultation round. In spite of this, all those who want joint supervision have spoken out on the issue, while those who believe it is important to maintain their own supervision of marine food have considered this to be clear. This has led to the Storting getting a one-sided picture of this issue. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants the Government in this case to come back to Stortinget with an investigation that also includes a thorough review of this option. The Advance Party and the Government Parties have now agreed to include the Maritime Food Authority. I hope, however, that the issue is subject to a thorough assessment and that there will be no urgent investigation, because there are key issues for fisheries being affected. This concerns both the monitoring of resources, which is currently part of the quality control, and the additional, more stringent quality requirements of the monitoring of seafood. I am pleased that the representative Siv Jensen also pointed this out in his post. Therefore, the final decision should be taken on the basis of such a broad and thorough assessment and not as an ‘cheap’ negotiating card to ensure a majority of a revised national budget. Finally, the Bondevik government has flagged a strong increase in public transport, in the Sem Declaration and in its own message to the Stortinget. But despite NOK 6 billion more at the disposal of the revised national budget, this is not followed up with more money for this sector. The Labour Party agrees with the need for such a commitment, especially in the larger cities. In spite of a tighter budget than the government parties, we have found room for 50 million. kr for this, and 15 mill. which also guarantees the student discounts on longer public trips.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1806	The Bondevik government’s proposal for a revised national budget suggests that the growth in patient treatment in the country’s hospital in 2002 should be 0.5 pst. 2002 is the first year of operation of public health establishments. From the new year, the major health reform was carried out. The aim of the reform is to improve patient treatment, remove waiting lists and remove the corridor patients. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important that businesses are given an economy that provides for a clear growth in patient treatment. In this context, a growth of 0.5 pst is. Obviously one too low ambition. One of the most important aspects of the treatment of the revised national budget by the Grand Duchy is therefore that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy rejects such a low rate of growth in patient treatment this year. The majority ensure a growth in patient treatment of 1.5 pst. The economy of health enterprises is strengthened by 350 million. kr. Thus, it is added to a patient treatment that is in line with the ambition of the Stoltenberg government. It will provide thousands of Norwegian patients with a treatment offer that the Government’s proposals did not provide. The government proposes that hospitals in 2002 and 2003 together have to increase the efficiency of operations by DKK 1.3 billion. This shall be done at the same time as the new organisation shall find its form. There is every reason to ask critical questions as to whether this would be possible at all without very negative consequences for patients, not least taking into account the fact that hospitals also have to deal with a robust wage settlement with subsequent increased pension costs. I have to assume that the Government has carefully assessed realism in its efficiency requirements, and the Workers' Party therefore assumes that this is possible. But, of course, we will closely monitor what is now going to happen in the various health businesses. In the revised national budget, the Government opposes the use of drug injection rooms. The Labour Party wants to learn more about whether drug injection rooms, as one of several lowthreshold interventions, can contribute to increasing human dignity for those drug addicts. We are aware that this is not a simple matter, and there are many arguments against allowing injection rooms. However, an overall consideration suggests that we need to gain experience with injection rooms. We have to do that through a few, well-organized and well-thought-out trials. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a majority in the Grand Duchy rejects the Government’s position on this issue. Different notes from the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party clearly indicate that the three batches wish to carry out tests on injection rooms under certain conditions. This is confirmed today by the fact that Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the three batches, has made a proposal to allow testing of injection rooms. I need to link some comments to proposal No. 22, from SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. This proposal concerns the approval of Røros Rehabilitation Centre. The Labour Party voted in favour of a similar proposal in the context of the examination of the State budget. It did not get a majority at the time, and the proposal is not intended to have a majority today either. I would like to stress that Røros Rehabilitation Centre will be a very important contribution to the work of rehabilitation of cardiac patients. The working party is in favour of the project and believes that it is necessary to ensure the operation of a rehabilitation institution as from 2003. But we see no further intention to vote in favour of a proposal that does not get a majority. I think this is negative for the whole project, and I would therefore encourage the three parties behind the proposal to draw it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1819	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1823	I would also like to say a little bit about proposal No. 75, from Olav Gunnar Ballo, who was commented by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The reason why these three batches want to experiment with injection rooms is that this is about measures aimed at one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, who live under the perhaps most unworthy conditions. We want time-limited testing to be started, that it will be facilitated, on very clear assumptions and assumptions. We want, as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also said, to gain experience of the impact this will have on other lowthreshold drug users. Such trials must then be evaluated in the next round. It is necessary to assess the experience gained, and then to determine whether this is a suitable tool for drug treatment, or whether it may have adverse effects. For example, with regard to the experience to be gained, this is the case. whether this will increase the awareness of the dignity of injecting drug users, whether there will be a reduction in the number of overdose deaths and a reduction in the number of syringes placed under poor conditions, and whether it will improve the overall health status of drug users. I would like to emphasise that such trials must and will be carried out as one action among several others, and that they should be implemented in a context of other lowthreshold measures and in the environment and environments in which other health and social services to drug users are provided. So there's a clear premise that the tests are going to be carried out. If it is the case that the government is in doubt about what this majority of population wants, it is said that we are prepared to engage in a dialogue with the ministry and government around it. I would also like to stress strongly that opening up such experiments is not part of the liberalisation of Norwegian drug policy. So short to proposal No. 82, on the roof 2 scheme for the prostheses, which is intended to protect chroniclers and other major users of healthcare, who have high expenditures on health care and medicine. This was a unanimous decision in the State budget of the year, and the Government is now being asked to implement the ceiling 2 scheme from 1 January 2003. The fact that we already have the date of effect of this scheme has not been accepted by the SV, and we therefore support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1836	The budget for 2002 for higher education in Eastfold received a start-up grant of 7 million. kr. This was within the budget of the Stoltenberg government and was passed on by the Bondevik government. The fact that this was a start-up grant has been confirmed by the Secretary of State Clement from the Parliamentary Chair on February 27, this year. That's why there's no doubt about it. Nevertheless, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Research at Halden Arbeiderblad on 8 May says that this must be a misunderstanding, that there is not yet a start-up grant and therefore no final clear-cut signal. In the budget, the Government also announced that it would return to Stortinget with a final cost framework in the revised national budget. The project was secure progress. The detail design was started, has now come very far and is almost complete. The tender papers may be sent out in the autumn and the spade placed in the ground over the new year. A 30-year-old is involved in the project. But what are we experiencing in the context of the revised budget? An abrupt stop to the entire project. In the revised budget, there's not a single penny, and it's quite shocking. The progress party goes out in the Halden newspaper and says that we're going to sort this out. But after the agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties is in place, there is still no money for Halden University. A stop now – as it looks in relation to what the Storting decides today – will produce very unfortunate effects and is completely incomprehensible. This is a political breach of promise, says the rapporteur in Halden from the Christian People's Party. The Labour Party agrees and has contributed money to further progress in its draft revised budget. It is not possible to decide to give marshalls to such a large project, and then come half a year later and say that was not really what we meant. After all, it's all spent quite a lot of money. This creates considerable uncertainty about the future of higher education, which has an impact on the knowledge environment in Halden and the county. The question is whether there is really a will in the Government of the entire project. I remember that this, together with Rogaland University, has been the first priority of Stortinget for many years. But after what has now happened, there is reason to ask if the Bondevik administration believes something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1851	During the last two weeks, there have been numerous press releases around the country describing child protection problems: burnout of child protection workers, high penetration of first-line services, lack of resources for raising competences and budgeting of child protection budgets in municipalities because of the increase in the number of cases and the cost of action taken is more costly because users’ needs are complex and complex. This is linked to poor local economy, and this development will be exacerbated by the inadequate transfers now being made to municipalities. On several occasions, SV has agreed that an authorisation system must be established for child protection institutions, on the grounds that, when a child is taken public responsibility, it is essential to ensure that the child or youth receives an offer tailored to the individual child and that the offer has to meet quality objectives. In the worst case, we can make the damage bigger. To date, the government has opposed such an approval scheme. One exposes and exposes to the expectation of the location of county child protection. Local authorities must give priority to the supervision of child protection institutions and follow up on compliance with the provisions of the legislation. Today, the population does not have enough resources to perform the supervisory function of child protection, and this affects the weakest in our society. In the revised national budget, SV has proposed an increase of NOK 33 480 000 to the counties in order to carry out precisely this work. We have too many examples of children and young people being placed in their homes or in institutions without a public assessment of their location, and we know that children are on the run from child protection and live under unworthy conditions. SV has also included in its proposal for a revised budget funds for the enhancement of child protection competences. The majority's proposal reduces this chapter by SEK 550 000, which is completely incomprehensible to the problems we are facing. Children and young people are our future, and investments in children and young people cannot be postponed. We have a negative trend in our youth environments with increased drug use and violence, and the pressure on children and young people is constantly increasing. We have to take seriously the problems we are now seeing in society, related to violence and violence. SV wants to launch different trials and projects to improve growing-up conditions and treatment provision for children and young people. Problems associated with advertising, slendering and increased sexualisation of children and young people need to be given more attention — research needs to focus on this and action needs to be taken. Leisure activities and voluntary organisations are important offers for children and young people. Preventive, positive youth work is channelled through different organisations and arenas and it is necessary to strengthen the resources of non-governmental organisations so that everyone has the opportunity to participate. SV strengthens prevention measures for children and young people in its proposal for a revised State budget. Youth activities in larger cities, development and information, child protection empowerment, children’s and youth organisations, research and enhancement of the growing environment are strengthened by 40 million. kr. [[President clubs]] State Council Davøy has promised in several Question Time and debates – I am sorry, President – and the reduced supply of children and young people in the 2002 budget. [[President clubs]] Understand the one who can. Stop!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1871	Yes, it was an elegant ending.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1874	I didn't finish my first five minutes, so I have to keep going a little further. The EU considers reintroducing subsidies to its shipbuilding industry to meet competition from Korea. Norwegian authorities have to take the consequences of such measures in view of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. The Coastal Party therefore supports proposals for support schemes for Norwegian shipyards, similar to those put in place for the EU both in terms of size and timing of deployment. In recent years competing maritime nations in Europe have strengthened their national maritime industries by introducing net wages for seafarers. The Coastal Party believes that a similar system should be put in place in Norway to prevent the loss of our maritime competence environment. Here, particular account must be taken of the difficult situation of the freight fleet, in which the Workers' Party has previously been involved in an article. The coastal party believes that the special nature of fisheries must be taken into account when designing the tax system. Deteriorating weather and conditions of resistance give rise to considerable variations and unforeseeability in the income of fishermen. Fishery operators must therefore have the opportunity to make fund provisions in good time in order to build up equity and reserve to meet bad times and to invest in new vessels and equipment. The coastal party has therefore proposed to amend the tax law, so that this is possible. Many foreign vessels pick up bunkers abroad, and they compete on Norwegian domestic voyages. In this way they avoid paying the CO2 tax. The coastal party wishes to equalise these vessels and therefore proposes that Norwegian near-cargo vessels should also be exempted from the CO2 charge. The Coastal Party is opposed to the Lots Service being user-funded. We believe that the obligation of unloading should be extended to all ships that go on coastal waters and do not have ship officers with knowledge of the lease. We therefore believe that free piloting will provide incentives for more ships to use the piloting service, with the benefits this may have for other ships and for general safety along the coast. The coastal party therefore disagrees with the principle that the negative deviation of 27.79 million. kr shall be covered in 2002 and 2003 by an increase in the unloading fee. The Coastal Party believes that the Government's ambition level in relation to new charts for several major leases is too low. This leads to the exposure of both humans and vessels to major hazards. It was assumed by Stortinget that the Swedish Maritime Cartel Authority would not be affected by the budget reduction in the 2002 state budget, where the activities of the Swedish Maritime Cartel Agency are strongly marked by the scarce allocations. The Coastal Party will show here that only the VAT reform has resulted in a reduced activity equivalent to 8 million. in 2002. I will address the proposals made by the Coastal Party in these matters. So I would like to make it clear that in two of our proposals in Innst.S. No 255 in an incursion has become some mistake. It concerns proposal No. 69 and proposal No 71. I'll hand the corrections over directly to the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1895	Karl-Anton Swensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. We will be briefed on the errors that have been corrected by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1898	SV has submitted the following proposals in connection with the revised budget: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with an inquiry into one food inspection. Laboratory services shall not be put out of competition and supervision placed under the Ministry of Health.’;» For us, these are important and necessary provisions for the further processing and organisation of one joint food inspection. This must come back to Stortinget as a matter of its own, where all matters are settled. I am therefore considered over the plural comment: ‘The majority further argue that there is an appropriate case for the Stortinge to be brought to the attention of one food monitoring body’; when the same majority otherwise agree with the Government's assessments, including: Laboratories shall be released. I agree with the Government's assessment that the laboratory service must be organised in such a way that there is no doubt about the stability of the Food Authority. Competence and flexibility are the foundations of services of this type. However, there is no good reason in the Government’s attitude for competitive outsourcing to take care of this – as if privatisation has been granted clear economic, competence or viability benefits. We now know of examples of privatisation or postponement of competition in itself leading to more competence and quality from both the English railways, the municipality of Farum in Denmark, Os in Hordaland and the Hovseter home in Oslo. There's something a believer, it's wishful thinking -- it's not real. That is why we disagree with the idea that laboratory services should be excluded from competition. Of course, it is possible to rationalise within the current food surveillance system. But that doesn't mean it's right to privatize the labs. For SV, it is important that competence is maintained, so that the new supervision has the possibility of being credible and able to meet the requirements that will come. We therefore argued that in the matter of the government there was also a statement about the laboratories, and that an exemption would not happen without the Storting being in the house. Similarly, it is important for the UK that the Stortinget be given the opportunity to decide on the ministerial link for the new supervision. This is a unique chance to separate business interests from supervisory authorities. That is why we have said that we want the new supervision under the Ministry of Health. But no matter what the majority may think of this today, this is something that the Storting must decide on, and that must not be decided in the department. We therefore argued, when the Government returns to the Stortinget with a case of the organisation of joint supervision, that the laboratories and the departmental associations have also been distributed. These are matters that will be decisive for the future organization, and there are matters that the Storing has to decide. I'm forced to bring a little heartchild with me. In the organisation of the new surveillance, it is imperative that more ambitions be maintained on the fisheries side. If the new supervision leads to poor supervision and control of this industry, a job has not been done well enough, and this is why it is necessary to clarify before the case comes back. Now it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1923	That part of the post of the representative Sørfonn of the Christian People's Party that referred to assistance made it necessary for me to take the floor. The representative referred to the criticism the Christian People's Party has had to endure in order to have been involved in cutting the aid budget through the revised process. He stressed most strongly that it is not correct to cut. Well, that's right – in the sense that aid to the world's poor has been reduced by 49 million. kr in the revised budget. But it is also true that the aid rate has increased. This can happen because the government includes significant sums in the aid budget that go to refugees in Norway, among others. means of transporting refugees out of the country. This is contrary to what has been the line of the Christian People's Party. On the Christian People's Party's website, it says that the Christian People's Party believes it is fundamentally unfortunate that the aid budget should be charged to refugee expenditure in Norway, even if the OECD accepts this as official assistance, and even if this has been done earlier. It is well known that both the Right and the Advance Party want to reduce the aid budget. Through the revision process, the Christian People's Party has given influence to the Advance Party – even in aid policy, an area that we all know has been a heart issue for the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party. I am very surprised that the representative Sørfonn sees the aid part of the revised budget as a victory. Unfortunately, this must mean that we can expect completely new tones from the Christian People's Party in the future aid policy, and that it is good to think that the escalation plan for aid for 1 pst. shall be carried out by putting on money for the movement of asylum recipients and for the transport of refugees out of the country. When the Christian People's Party chooses to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party, it is possible to understand that aid measures and violations of the principles of assistance are the result. But that the Christian People's Party should go high and defend this – it marvels.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1940	I would like to mention proposal No. 78, concerning the authorisation of the Government to pay the contested aid to Fosen Mechanical Workshops AS. The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber. I understand from the media that there is a settlement in this matter between the government parties and the Workers' Party, and I welcome that. I should have liked to have clarified the situation in which the Fosen Mechanical Workshops are now in, where there is a disagreement between the State and Fosen Mechanical Workshops about these ships that are built – whether it has been done according to the regulations. There is a dispute about the interpretation of the legislation. Then I think it would be reasonable – until the legal system, if any, has clarified who is right in its interpretation – that this money was in the Fozen Mechanical Workshops' case, instead of in the state treasury. Many times the interpretation of a code can be controversial, and there may be disagreement about it. Then I think the doubt should benefit the private enterprise or the private person. Of course, care should be taken to ensure that there is equal treatment between the various beneficiaries of aid schemes. It will be obtained through possible legal proceedings, or through an amicable arrangement between the enterprise and the state. If you don't get it, you get the legal system to clear it up. But the question is where to de facto find the money. When an enterprise in its budgets, in its accounts and in its operations, has perhaps assumed – and claims that the aid is properly calculated by itself – access to these liquid assets, it may have significant adverse effects on the enterprise when it detains them. There may be ring-effects that may in another context become more expensive for the country — in the form of pay-out of unemployment benefits, permitting aid, payment of wages in the event of bankruptcy, etc. This should allow the State to carry out an overall assessment and make what is socially more sensible. In particular, a State which is a rigid State should be able to act without those means until the judiciary decides, where appropriate, who is entitled to such funds. The fact that the state has such matters is not uncommon. We have therefore always had this attitude. I think it is sad that you cannot get a majority for a full solution to the disputed amount of aid. I do not know what forms the basis of the proposal of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. It doesn't contain anything new. The Minister of Industry always has the right to review legislation. There's no big deal about that. But if this is a form in which an agreement has been made to pay a certain amount for certain building numbers, it is at least a step in the right direction, which we welcome. I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists also vote in favour of that proposal and for the proposal by Mr Lund. A dispute between two parties is not appropriate for a police report, but for a civil law settlement in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1961	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1965	It was Mr. Åslaug Haga's speech that made me ask again for the floor. I just want to repeat the following: it is actually a mistake to present what has been done, as a cut in the aid. It's added 118 million. kr in fresh funds. I also said in my speech that what has been done before in the revised budget is that one has moved funds internally within the aid budget – from ordinary means of assistance to ODA-approved refugee expenditure. In this case, 118 million has been added. kr net in fresh funds. I would also like to say that in the Sem Declaration, the parties that are part of the Cooperative Government are committed to stepping up assistance. I would also like to add that the Christian People's Party has previously had a government cooperation with the Center Party. Now the Right is involved, and the aid budget for which we have now been implemented is higher than it was when we cooperated with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1974	In agreement with the other proposers, proposal No. 11 and proposal No. 22 tows. So to Fozen Mechanical Workshops – just a few words: From SV's point of view, we have been busy trying to find a solution for Fosen in the difficult situation they have now come into. There are three proposals. We were initially prepared to support the majority proposal on these 77 million. kr – a proposal that the Progress Party has now submitted to the Chamber. But since, as far as I understand, there is a kind of consensus between the Ministry of Industry, the Labour Party and the Government Parties, SV wants to give its support to proposal No. Seventy-nine. The proposal is in its form a little difficult to understand, but I understand from the media how it is interpreted. I also understand that the Minister of Industry has announced that he wants to look at part of the history with new eyes, which means that the Fosen Mechanical will obviously get paid if not all of this money, so at least some of them, completely independent of the legal dispute that otherwise had to exist. This is a matter that will go completely independent of what the Storting does. We will not support the proposal of the Central Party asking the Government to withdraw the notification. That the matter should never have been reported is a separate story. But I believe that there must be some tidyness, after all, in politics. This may be a decision which the Council of State may take without the involvement of the Storting. We want to support proposal No. Seventy-nine. We will not support the other two proposals on the Fosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1987	The President is pleased that the media helps us to understand our proposals, so that we can decide what we are for and what we are against. Mr Djupedal has drawn up proposal No. 11 and proposal No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e1992	One conclusion of this debate is that the government parties are well pleased that the government is safe. In my opinion, they have no reason to be satisfied with the result in relation to the services that people should have. There'll be less money for school and older than what's promised, and it doesn't like people. Hospitals have the opportunity to treat more patients, but they do not get enough money to do so. People want to build houses, they want to create jobs. They want help from the House Bank and SND, but they do not get that help. The majority of people at Stortinget say: You can go to other banks; then there will be no pressure from you to borrow money and do what you want. The moving stream will increase. People in the north are asking for 1 million. NOK for each person moving, because they do not have buyers for their houses. I think it's strange that the situation is that if we had private schools and hospitals, they would have to have solved these problems for us, because then there was no pressure in the economy, then there was no problem that the employees people and spent money. I think there is something fundamentally wrong in the way we discuss and think about, in terms of the use of the state's money. Money granted over our budget is no more dangerous than any other money. So finally another theme. It is a matter of compensation for the tax on services of non-governmental organisations. The comments show that all parties, except the government parties, require the government to draw up a different and simpler model to distribute the money. With 1,200 sports teams and 3,000 choirs and corps, the application-based system would be totally impossible and very expensive to implement. The organisations have submitted their model to the authorities, which distributes the money through the umbrella organisations. I think it's the model that should be followed. It remains to be seen that the Storting assumes that compensation will fully cover the increased VAT costs they received last year. The centre party believes that it would be best in the long term to provide voluntary organisations with VG and Dagbladet VAT – zero VAT on income and a full deduction of the tax on expenditure. So a little bit about the Food Authority. A unanimous committee will have its own case about the Food Authority. The Central Party has not concluded that there must be a common oversight, but sees that the majority here is overrun by the Government. I would like briefly to note that increased control alone does not ensure good food quality. The way in which primary production takes place is crucial. That relationship I believe must lead to supervision being placed under one of the primary industries, and it must be the Ministry of Agriculture. At the same time, it must be reasonable that current controls on board the boat and when landing are carried out by those who have other control tasks in the fisheries, in other words, under the direction of bodies under the Ministry of Fisheries. So I hope that the laboratories can continue as an integral part of the local inspections.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2007	In today's debate, some speakers have raised the so-called Fosen case, and there are no less than three proposals on the table. I am not going to comment on the Morten Lund proposal, but I note at least that no one in the Stortinget – none of the parties of the Stortinget – has promoted the proposal they have spoken about in the debate in the last month, that it would be proposed that the Government should pay the yard support also for projects which, in the government's view, were not the basis for paying out. In Carl I. Hagen's proposal, no. 78, it says: ‘The decision authorises the Government to pay immediately yard aid based on the applications for building numbers 57, 61, 62, 63, 64, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71 and 72 to Fosen Mechanical Workshops AS from the ‘Fund for Ship Contract Support’. Any claim for repayment to the State is pending the existence of a reunited agreement with the company or a enforceable judgment that aid has been paid on a basis that does not comply with the law on mutual assistance.’;» To this end, it is said that the Government has the power – or order – to pay yard aid to those qualified in relation to it. I assume that Hagen here is thinking about paying out yard support also to those who did not have to be qualified, but who nevertheless make such a claim. Then there is a proposal, No. 79, which does not address whether to measure or not to measure yard aid but which is based on an assessment of the practice established in relation to set-off. Of course, that's what I want to do. I can also inform you that – because I have assumed that this would have a majority – I have already started this. This work will be done as soon as practicable. Of course, this will be done in close cooperation with both the Minister of Justice and the Department of Justice, and the Minister of Industry, of course, has no intention of doing anything that is not a basis for doing so. That means that I will also find it natural to consult Storting's own audit body, namely the National Audit Office, so that what we have to do in this area is also anchored in what the Riksrevision sees as a dangerous path. The ministry has always had the starting point for all shipyards to be treated equally – whether they are located in central Norway or in the West, whether they are owned by a nice lady in central Norway or by a Westerner, whether it is a yard that goes well, or it is a yard that goes bad. I will continue to base that principle on the fact that non-discrimination is overwhelming, and that what applies to one yard must also apply to the other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2023	Then it is established that Westerners should be treated equally with others. Morten Lund has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2028	That's good. I was a little worried about the article from the Council of State in relation to the happy headlines and messages in the media today, where it is stated that this money can be in place within a few days and in time for the yard we are talking about, not going bankrupt, and that they are able to complete the job that is there. It is actually done this way from those who are close to the company, that it is very important that this money gets in place quickly. I must be allowed to ask the Council of State: what kind of time perspective are we talking about in relation to having this money paid out?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2037	The representative Lund began by saying that he was worried, and that is nothing new. With regard to the time spent on this matter, I would first of all like to clarify the following: There is an appeal for consideration where the Government in the Royal Resolution has decided that it is the Minister of Finance who is the Council of State because the Minister of Industry has reported the Fosen police report. For me, it is natural that the matter has found its solution before this work is completed, in the sense that it is decided. Work is in progress and shall not be used for more than one day. However, it is also not appropriate to take a stand one day before you are sure that the decision taken is correct. Whether it's the one number of days or the other number of days, time will show, and as I said, I want to consult all the relevant bodies to anchor this so that it is legally sustainable, so that the size of the next round does not find reason to criticize just that piece. But we have no reason to spend a week more than necessary. And I'm fully aware of the situation of Fosen – and I work under that pressure. But the stones to be turned must be turned upside down, and the Fosen should be given an absolutely fair treatment also in terms of time consumption in relation to this. But it has to be properly anchored before we do this, because it is, as it was said, the same thing which cash this money is in while we wait for the legal clarification. It is a reasonable starting point, but it is not without interest whether there is anything in the checkout on the day you might want to get your money back. I assume that the Riksrevision will be interested in such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2046	The case concerning Fosen Mechanical Workshops is quite difficult. The Labour Party has had a dialogue with the Government over several days, and I am very happy that it ended up with a result where the government parties and the Workers' Party put forward proposals together. I just want to stress, like the representative Morten Lund, that it is very important that we act quickly, and I am glad that we have been confirmed by the chairman of the debt department that the proposal that lies here could be quite a big difference, not least for the situation of the many subcontractors, who are also in a very difficult situation and lack of credit. I would like to recommend to the Council of State that he works quickly and makes a positive decision, to the pleasure of Norwegian – Mediterranean – business and all those waiting for this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2055	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4. [[Fotation, see page 3593 ff]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2071	During the examination of Document No by the Financial Committee 8:136. on greater transparency and awareness of executive remuneration, the Committee has not come up with a majority position. Because of a debated technological incurrency, I have actually gone through some of the points of view of the matter earlier today. See. on page 3575 You are also in our remarks. I now want to say that it seems typical for this case that one is early out, because the arguments and suggestions made by the proposers, Stoltenberg and Halvorsen, have already been incorporated into the mandate given to the Evaluation Committee – those to go through the new Accounting Act. This selection was appointed by the Government only a few days ago. I would like to warn against making urgent decisions that could harm Norwegian business by making new decisions, new things to deal with that is not sufficiently determined. I therefore take the opportunity to strongly recommend the proposal made by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 1, and that I'm taking up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2085	The representative Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2088	Rents have increased dramatically, in relation to wages or salaries over the last few years. Over the period 1995–2001, top leaders in Norwegian enterprises with more than 250 added had an increase of 111 pst, while on average employees had an increase of 33 pst. This is not just about increasing the differences in Norway, but it has been willing to make it harder to settle wages. The ransom of the renters is socially unfortunate and weakens the reputation of the companies. It is a development that both politicians from several political parties and colors and social organisations have expressed great concern, but with which there has been little progress. I must point out that this proposal is not an attempt by the state or by others outside the enterprise to determine the rents, but it is a proposal to get the general meeting, the owner, to have a more conscious relationship with the level of the rents, and thus to influence more cheap rents. For it is serious that wage agreements, etc. as referred to in the public debate, appears to be completely unknown to the owners and to the members of the company. Now, of course, it's right, as the case-speaker said here earlier today, that there are legal rules today, among other things. in the accounting law, which imposes on companies the obligation to provide information on the benefits to tenants. But it appears in practice that there is a strong need to improve this, precisely to raise awareness of the owners. This proposal has concrete measures to improve this situation by including in the annual report a briefing on the company's current attitude to the remuneration of the lessee added and on the expected developments in these performances in the coming years. Thus, the Annual Report will provide future information that may be appropriate to obviate the attention of the General Assembly. It's going to be the subject of discussion, and in this way it might seem disciplining. For listed companies, information requirements should be reinforced in the annual notification and one should also require updated information in the quarterly reports. Here I have a newspaper clipping from Evening Post from just after the suggestion from Halvorsen and Stoltenberg was made. The title is a Bondevik quote that this is a'small radical suggestion'. The article reads: ‘Minister of State Bondevik agrees that ‘a good deal of wages are characterised by a culture of greed’. At his monthly press conference yesterday, he expressed «sympathies with intentions» in the proposal, but seemed almost somewhat disappointed at the fact that Ap. and the SV had not gone further." One wishes for more radical proposals. I must say that I am quite surprised that the government party cannot be involved in this proposal. At least they don't produce anything more radical, but they want to make this an element of the knowledge and the great work of evaluating and revising accounting laws. This means that this will be a long way ahead and soon become a secondary element of the work. It is worth noting that the last accounting law was revised, took five years. No, if a person really thinks that there is a need for owners to become more aware of the issue of setting up a payroll in their own company, a true part of these measures and not just instilling it in an evaluation selection. There will be no new practice of changing accounting laws according to normal procedures, even if the laws are going to be a major revision. This was done between 1990 and 1995, and after that accounting laws have been revised in several respects. The Progress Party expresses in its note that there must be leaders and shareholders in private companies how they will pay their leaders. Yes, for the most part, I agree – there is nothing in the proposal here about anything but that. But when we want to raise the owner's awareness of senior wages as a tool for more disciplined wages, it has to apply to both private and public businesses. It would be strange if the measures were only to be targeted at state-owned enterprises, as proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2115	The Progress Party has expressed sympathy for the idea behind the proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV, about more transparency about management wages, and we still do. Our scepticism lies in the concrete proposal made by the proposers to already make changes to both accounting laws and stock exchange regulations. That is why we have designed the proposal as it stands in the vote. The wording is somewhat more round, and the Government is actually asked to assess various measures that can contribute to the transparency and more liberal development of management salaries. It is therefore strange that the Workers' Party and the SV, when they do not create a majority in favour of their proposal, do not vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Progress Party, which, after all, point more towards what is the intention of the proposal of the Workers' Party and the SV. Then you can wonder what the ambitions of the two parties are. Do you want to make a selection first? In that case, I find that strange, when you make a proposal, because the ambition should be to get a majority for what is the desired goal. It helps the Workers' Party and SV not to happen. Therefore, the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Government Parties, precisely because the Minister of Finance has warned that the proposals from the proposers will be considered in the context of the review of the Accounting Act. I therefore refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2126	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2129	Let me just briefly say that I fully agree with the statement made by the representative Rudihagen to justify the proposal. So I'm not going to go into detail about it. What's behind this is the eternal debate we have in the Norwegian community on leadership wages. There have been innumerable attempts by both the NHO and many other agencies in the Norwegian community to get leaders to show a little greater moderation and a little less greed than what they actually do. There are still revelations that come surprisingly in fact both on shareholders and on employees in companies, about what conditions some have been offered. We believe that openness around this is in every respect of the good. The approach we have chosen in this proposal is, in the opinion of the SV and the Workers' Party, important and wise. We're probably a bit surprised that it hasn't been possible to gather a majority on what we see as a relatively harmless proposal. It's harmless in the sense that transparency about this in itself will be dampening. The revelations are always quite embarrassing to those concerned. There are some people who don't have stomach problems, and that's why they have to be helped a little bit to get that stomach problem. That is really what this proposal contains. In addition to this, I have no comments. Rudihagen has also explained the SV's position on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2155	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2172	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2180	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2201	Case No. A total of 82 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 4, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 5-8, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 9 and 10, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left – the President makes it clear that these two proposals are below the previous fraction on p. 266 in the vote, and that is the wrong proposal No. 12, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 13–16, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 17-21 and 23, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 24 and 25, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 26-29, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, 30–33, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 34 to 39, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 40 to 54, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, 55 to 59, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals Nos. 60-68 and proposal No 80, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 69 to 74, by Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Coastal Party, proposal No. 75, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. 76, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 77, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Financial Committee, the President pointed out that this proposal was distributed in an amended version of proposal No. 78, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 79, from Torstein Rudihagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 81, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 82, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left Proposal No 11, by the Party of Presidents, the Left Party of Socialists, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, and proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, are drawn. Proposals Nos. 1–74 is included in the vote, while the other proposals are distributed in the Chamber. We're going forward as usual to take up the suggestions from the smallest fractions first. We start with the proposals made by the Coastal Party. But before we can take them up to voting, the president will make notice of some corrections. It concerns the proposals Nos. 69 and 71. In proposal No 69, chapter 5700, item 72 Employers’ tax, it says ‘reduced by 59000000’, but it shall read ‘increased by 422000000’. In proposal No 71 it fell out a few words. It shall read: ‘1. Bend loaders are included in the reimbursement aid scheme at a reimbursement rate of 20 pst. 2nd@item: inlistbox Norwegian ferries in international traffic are included in the reimbursement aid scheme at a reimbursement rate of 20 pst.» It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 69 to 74, from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 69 – with that corrigendum – reads: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner909Contribution for employment of seafarers70Contributions, allocation of estimates, increased by 99 000 000 from NOK 249 300000 to NOK 348 300 00071Contributions to ferries operating on international voyages in NOR, may be transferred, estimated, increased by 39 000 000 from NOK 120000000 to NOK 159 0001062Coastal works [[(see section 4.4). Chapters 4820 and 4829)]] Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the matter of Food Safety in particular with regard to the economics, laboratory organisation and relations with public health/environmental health protection of the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 71 – with the said corrigendum – reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for a reimbursement scheme for seafarers which, with effect from 1 July 2002, includes: 1st@item: inlistbox Bend loaders are included in the reimbursement aid scheme at a reimbursement rate of 20 pst.2. Norwegian ferries in international traffic are included in the reimbursement aid scheme at a reimbursement rate of 20 pst. The majority asks the Government to investigate and come back with proposals that the rate of reimbursement be raised from 12 to 20 p.m. and that this increase also take effect from 1 July 2002. ‘... Proposal No. 72 sounds ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Storting with aid schemes to ensure that the competitiveness of the shipbuilding industry is reintroduced in Norway from the same date and to the same extent as such schemes may be reintroduced into the EU territory.’; Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The budget decision of the Storting of 28 November 2001 on the CO2 tax on mineral products is amended as follows: point (c) is deleted; point 2(f) is replaced by the following: Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2003 State Budget to contribute to the financing of the Piesamian Centres in Beirarn.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e2533	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 60-68, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Objectives:Crones270Studies of the rest of the world and social purposes for students and students74Contributions to welfare work, increased by 2 000 000from €54 971,000 to €56 971 0005550Local enterprise development61Supplements to municipal food funds, granted by 50 000 000 00063Compensation for increased employer fees, increased by 30 000 000 from €20 000 to €50 000552National programs and measures for regional development71Industries, increased by 27 000 000 from €23 000 to €50 000580Accommodation70Accommodation, increased by 50 000 000 from €1 75 000 000 to €100 0001Accommodation of the pension fund(s) [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The budget assumes that the necessary funds for further design and architectural competition for the University of Bergen will be entered in the 2003 State budget.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2003 with proposals for amendments to reduce the interest rate margin of the State Loan Fund for Education by 0.5 percentage points.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a statement of progress and the costs of designing and building Follo Hospitals in the context of the 2003 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the question of the reorganization of the Food Authority as a separate matter for the Stortinget in the autumn of 2002.’» Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament of 28 November 2001 on excise duties on the budget for the 2002 budget is amended as follows for a tobacco tax:No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Fee for tobacco products § 1, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following:(c) Smoking tobacco, savoury tobacco, raw tobacco in consumer packing: kr 1,665 per. grams of the net weight of the package.’» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament of 28 November 2001 on excise duties on the 2002 budget is amended as follows: 10th@item: inlistbox The first sentence of the first subparagraph of Section 1 of chocolate and sugar products is replaced by the following: 11 if excise duties are paid to the Treasury for chocolate and sugar products at NOK 16,63 per person. kg of the weight of the goods subject to excise duty.» Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose appropriate measures in the context of the 2003 State Budget to strengthen the competitiveness of the greenhouse industry in relation to our main competitors such as the Netherlands and Denmark. Including, the Government is asked to consider measures to stimulate the use of more environmentally friendly energy sources.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to set up a body to investigate measures for real equality between women and men in the labour market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e3112	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 55 to 59, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party: Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Objective:Crons100The Ministry of Foreign Affairs71Various grants, increased by 4 000 000 from NOK 30 320 000 to NOK 34 320 000 278Norway high school of agriculture50State grants, increased by 37 621 000 from NOK 339 471 000 to NOK 377 092 000 340Church administration72Contributions to church activities in the municipalities, increased by 12 300 000 from NOK 100 000 to NOK 112 300 000 571Compensation to municipalities for the needs of the municipalities for buffer build-up, granted by 1 520 000 000 00060Population grants, increased by 2 969 000 000 from NOK 32 330 072 000 to NOK 35 299 072 00067 Compensation to the municipalities for the needs of the municipalities, granted by 25 000 000572Counity grants for the county council's needs for buffer build-up, granted by NOK 38 00060Population grants, can be used up to NOK 610 000 from NOK 610 000. [[NY]] [[New]] [[NY]] 571 item 64, increased by 200 000 000 from NOK 1 124 900 000 to NOK 1 324 900 000573Compensation for county councils on the assumption by the State of responsibility for the specialist health service60Additions to the cancellation of debt, etc., increased by 3 832 000 000 from NOK 15 645 600 000 to NOK 19 477 600 000614Development of social services, measures for drug addicts, etc.70Additions, increased by 600 000 from NOK 39 200000 to NOK 39 800 000707National Institute of Public Health1Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 2 500 000 from NOK 256 200 000 to NOK 258 700 000711 National Institute of Legal Sciences [[(see section 4.4). cap. (Rule 5445)]] Proposal No. 56 sounds: «As from 1 July 2002, the customs duty shall be amended as follows:The duty shall be set at 0 on the goods in the tariff indicated in Annex 2 to St.prp. No 63 [[2001-2002]] Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start work on the online knowledge portal in 2002 in line with the Stockholm decision of the Innst. S. No 77 [[2001-2002]] Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the tax exemption scheme for gifts to non-profit institutions and non-profit institutions serving households includes all non-profit institutions and non-profit institutions serving households and that gifts directly to a local team are also entitled to deduction.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to the Storting on the socio-economic benefits of measures that help our labour reserves to be exploited better than today within the limits set by today’s legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e3749	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 52–54, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan of measures to balance pay differentials between women and men in Norway in order to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy on case No. 1st meeting on 31 January 2002, Decision No. 177.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government requests action to be taken by the Government to ensure that the economic and social differences shall be less at the end of this ageing period than they were at the beginning of the period.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an assessment of the development of economic and social differences in Norway in the annual budgets.’ The centre party has announced that they want to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e3778	The proposals are then put to the vote. 40 to 51, from the Socialist Left Party: Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Objectives:Crons153Regional allocations for the Middle East70Health and education, etc., can be transferred, increased by 25 000 000 from NOK 37 000 000 to kr 62 000 00072Economic development and trade, can be transferred, increased by 25 000 000 from kr 17 000 000 to kr 42 000 000164Peace, reconciliation and democracy:70Peace, reconciliation and democracy measures, can be transferred, increased by 9 000 000 from kr 223 000 000 to kr 232 000 000232 000 000270Studies abroad and social purposes for students and students75Supplements for the construction of student housing, can be transferred, increased by 80 000 000 from kr 192 453 000 to kr 272 453 000 000 000410Government and city councils Dr. 3 000 for prevention, single minor asylum seekers, granted by child and youth protection71Development and information work, etc., can be used under the heading 50 000 000, can be transferred to the major projects of krød 3 000 from NOK 3 000 from NOK 4 000 to NOK 7, 000 from NOK 7 000 from NOK [[NY]] [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 950)]] Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the use of ODA-approved funds for the domestic follow-up of refugees be phased over a maximum period of three years’.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to restore its own grant scheme to training offices and training rings, under the apprentice scheme.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals to introduce a 50 pst school and student discount. from 1 August 2002.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the importance of the construction of a dry dock in Harstad in relation to the defence’s needs in terms of coastal protection, and to return to the Stortinget with such an assessment in the context of the 2003 State budget.’» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with an inquiry into one food inspection. Laboratory services shall not be put out of competition and supervision placed under the Ministry of Health.’;» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct the Defence to streamline corresponding to a total savings of 150 million. 2002 crowns. The Government is authorised to allocate savings to the different cost chapters of the Defence.’» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the housing structure of residents of municipal and social housing.’; Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to transfer settlement for sick transport from the National Agency for Social Security to health businesses.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: «Decision of the Storting on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for the 2002 budget is amended as follows :No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Fee on motor vehicles, etc. Section V. The first paragraph of Section 1 of petrol is replaced by the following:From 1 July 2002, under Law 19 May 1933, no. 11 if excise duties are paid to the State Treasury on petrol. Fee is paid at the following amount per. litre:a) For leaded petrol with lead content exceeding 0,05 g/l: kr 4,85b) for unleaded petrol: kr 4,00 ’» Proposal No. 50 sounds: «Decision of the Storting on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for the 2002 budget is amended as follows :No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Fee on motor vehicles, etc. Section VI. Fee on mineral oil for use in the propulsion of motor vehicles [[autodiesel fee]] Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Authority to give priority to the road project E12 Rådvatnet-Riksgren so that it can be implemented in the period 2003/2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e5131	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 to 39, from the Party of Progress: Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones234Aids to apprenticeships70Aids to apprenticeships, awarded with 87 600 000274State colleges and counties:50Company and industrial development in the districts, funds, can be used under Chapter. [[NY]] [[SND]] 551 item 51, reduced by 200 000 000from NOK 773 500 000 to NOK 573 500 000 from NOK 2600 from the Social Securitynet1Operating expenditure, reduced by 100 000 000 from NOK 4 353 000 to NOK 4 253 000 000 2650 from sickness benefit:70Sickness benefit for employees, etc., the estimate is increased by 800 000 000 from NOK 22 082 500000 to NOK 22 882 500000 2711Various measures in the Special Health Service78 Training situations, granted by 732 000 0002751Medicines, etc. [[NY]] 70Aids, increased by 122 000 000 from NOK 7 140 000 to NOK 7 262 000 0005501Taxes on wealth and income72Shared taxes, reduced by 1 100 000 000 from NOK 105 960000 000 to NOK 104 860 000 0005536Taxes on motor vehicles, etc., increased by 1 100 000 000 from NOK 12 855 000 000 to NOK 13 955 000 000 5656Axes in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade [[(see section 4.4). cap. 950):]] Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on all aspects relating to the management of building projects in the field of education and research.’;» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘It opens up the possibility for municipalities to start testing with injection rooms.The experiment is evaluated after 2 years of operation.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to earmark funds from the framework grant to the municipalities, through regulations, for additional teaching in Norwegian and mathematics for the 2nd to 4th class stages in the autumn of 2002, as part of its efforts to improve the learning outcomes in primary schools. The funds are allocated through the State Training Office in each State.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to earmark funds from the framework grant to the county councils – with a distribution via the State Education Office in the counties – to ensure a sound provision of education for each student in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The care of drug users is transferred to the State and regional health establishments from 1 January 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e5697	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30–33, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party: Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones324Teater and operapurpose Municipal Food Fund, granted with 30 000 0001425Vilt and fishing measures [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4590)]] Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make the transport aid scheme for disabled persons permanent as from January 2003.’; Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to include disabled persons with a income below 1G in the transport aid for disabled persons with effect from January 2003.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘A Storting asks the Government in the context of the 2003 State Budget to convert the reimbursement scheme for periodontite to include rehabilitation.bThe Government asks the Government to convert the appropriations for the periodontite reimbursement scheme into an estimate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e5905	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26-29, from the Party of Advancement and the Coastal Party: Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner2309Future expenditure1Operating expenditure5Operating expenditure, reduced by 16 000 0007General cuts, reduced by 270 000 000» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up the net remuneration scheme for the ferry companies in NOR at international speed as a tax model in accordance with the Swedish scheme.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2003 State Budget to submit a proposal for a system to ensure that Norwegian seafarers are competitive.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the 2003 State Budget to submit proposals for changes to the depreciation rules in order to bring them into line with the 1999 level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e5983	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17–21 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. The President noted that proposal No. Twenty-two is drawn. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner202Learning centre [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4429)]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to present as soon as possible a case for the reintroduction of a policy-driven student loan rate.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests compensation for the municipalities of Grane, Vevelstad, Gågebosted and Brønnøy in the budget for 2003.’; Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to review the responsibilities of drug services with a view to changes from 2003.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a plan to strengthen the funding of Hordaland Teater in the 2003 budget.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the 2003 budget to present a comprehensive financing plan for the maintenance and restoration of the Eidsvoldsbygningen’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e6148	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9, 10, 13 and 15, of the Labour Party: proposals Nos. 9 and 10 were represented by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestination:Croners240Private schools, etc.70Contributions, allocation of estimates, increased by 1,700 000from NOK 1 319 194,000 to NOK 1 320 894 000326Language, literature and library purposes [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2420)]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size gives the Government the power to distribute a reduction on top. 2309 item 1 of 165 million. kronor of the budget’s operational items. This does not apply to the operating items of the health enterprises.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectives:Croner202Teaching centre Grants to privately owned church buildings, granted by 9 095 000320General cultural purposes73National cultural buildings, can be transferred, increased by 1 500 000from NOK 83 950000 to NOK 85 450 000430Criminal care Municipal business funds, granted by 47 000 000571Room grants to municipalities [[NY]] [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5445):]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a permanent system of transport aid for disabled persons, including an assessment of the inclusion of disabled persons with income below 1 G in the scheme in relation to the 2003 budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7138	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 16, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget by 15 October 2002 with a proposal on how the fluctuations in the pension costs of the municipal sector can be balanced, including how the government can contribute to the compensation of the exceptionally large pension contributions in 2002. The proposal must include: a change in municipal accounting rules to allow municipalities and county councils to balance annual deviations from a realistic long-term premium. Such a change must be possible as early as 2002; a government loan scheme or a fund scheme to enable municipalities to meet their pension obligations. The purpose of such a scheme is that municipalities and county councils can borrow funds from the country/pull on the fund when the pension contribution is above the average but must pay back/in to the fund when the pension contribution is below the average. The use of the scheme by municipalities and counties shall not be taken into account when assessing the economic situation of municipalities in relation to access to other loans in the market.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back to the Stortinget with a separate case on the organisation of the Food Authority, where the tasks and dimensions of the central and regional branches have been thoroughly reviewed, with proposals for the acquisition of the municipal owned laboratories and where a joint food oversight for land-based and sea-based food has also been investigated and evaluated.’ The Central Party has announced their support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7169	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostal Purpose: Kroner101International Stations [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3101)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7293	The President will draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party have been withdrawn. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner270Studies abroad and social purposes for students and students70Aids to longer trips, estimates, increased by 25 000 000 from DKK 42 028 000 to DKK 67 028 000857Children and youth measures:73Youth measures in larger urban communities, can be transferred, reduced by 500 000 from DKK 18 539 000 to DKK 18 039 000923Research and development contracts:70Aids, can be transferred, increased by 37 500 000 from DKK 100 000 to NOK 137 500 0002420Food and rural development funds Programme activities, funds, granted by 41 600 000» [[NY]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the follow-up of an overall review of the dental service.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the maintenance of the planned work on the route E6 Tjäldal-Leirvik in Nordland and to the inclusion of funding in the 2003 State budget. The conversion of the racially dangerous parcel must be sought by the end of 2004.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks for an action plan to further implement the Hamsun Centre in Hamarøy in the context of the 2003 budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7430	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town Post Purpose:Croner920Norway Research Council50Contributions, increased by 20 000 000 from NOK 799 000 000 to NOK 819 000 0005615Rent from the Norwegian State Husbank [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7503	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner282Private higher education70Additional, increased by 500 000 from NOK 436 021000 to NOK 436 521 000326Language, literature and library purposes Funding for online knowledge portals may be transferred, granted by 3 500 000841Family protection and conflict resolution22 Development and training of competence, the mediation corps, granted by 3 530 000856Barnehager64Test project Oslo inner East, increased by 7 000 000 from NOK 7 079 000 to NOK 14 079 0001107 National animal health supervision Transfer to the deforestation reserve under the Earth Fund, granted by 40 000 000» [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue supporting the operation of the short-term offer in Kindergarten in Old Oslo, beyond the autumn of 2002 and to develop similar offers for the rest of the country.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Nordlys observatory in Tromsø shall be transferred free of charge to the University of Tromsø from Stadsbåg.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7700	Then we have voted against all the minority motions in the vote in the event of an incurrency, the proposals were no. 24 and 25, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, we do not vote for, and we move on to the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber. Proposals Nos. 76 and 77 the President will return to the vote on the motion for a resolution. It is then first voted on proposal No. 80, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a more flexible policy of action so that more oil money can be used when this can contribute to increased future value creation. It is important that the rule of action opens up the possibility of using available capacity in sectors with large unsolved tasks and flexibility in terms of investments that are pre-emptive in order to reduce government expenditure in the long term.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7726	The vote will be taken on proposal No 78, tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to pay immediately yard aid based on the applications for building numbers 57, 61, 62, 63, 64, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71 and 72 to Fosen Mechanical Workshops AS from the ‘Fund for Ship Contract Support’. Any claim for repayment to the State is pending the existence of a reunited agreement with the company or a enforceable judgment that aid has been paid on a basis that does not comply with the law on mutual assistance.’;» The Central Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7745	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7752	In that case, the votes shall be 77 against and 21 against for the proposal of the Progress Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 79, from the Workers' Party, Right, Christian People's Party, and Left: The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the practice established in relation to the set-off of the yard aid paid. Any amendments shall be applied for all cases where such offsetting has taken place, including Fosen Mechanic Workshops AS.» The President has understood it so that when proposal No. 78 of the Progress Party has fallen, this proposal will be supported in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7771	There is a vote on proposal No. 81, from the representative of Morten Lund. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to withdraw the review against Fosen Mechanic Workshops AS.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7790	There is a vote on proposal No. 75, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate testing of injection rooms on the basis of the premises set out in the notes of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party on testing of injection rooms in the Inst. [[2001-2002]] S. No 255
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7805	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7812	There appears to have been several votes wrong. There is a new vote on proposal No. Seventy-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7825	There is a vote on proposal No. 82, from the Right, the Party of Advances, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Centers and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Roof 2 scheme is implemented from 1 January 2003.’» The Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e7840	We have now reached the stage of voting on the motion for a resolution. In the subsequent vote, the parties, in line with the practice of the previous roll-out period, are prepared by final vote to abstain from the vote they would normally vote. That's for us to let go of a time-consuming and to some extent complicated voting where the result is still given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. This is a mutual understanding, which has been clarified with the representatives of the various parties in the Financial Committee. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 77, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Financial Committee. This proposal concerns various necessary corrections to the draft decision of the opinion. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In its proposal for a decision, the name ‘NY’ shall be deleted in the following entries: cap. 572 Framework grants to county councils, Item 64 Gender grants, Chapter. 2410 State Loan Fund for Education, Item 70 Education Grant, Chapter. 2751 Medizins n.e.c., heading No 70 5656 Shares in companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, item 80 Dividends. Chapter.PostObjective:Croners477Replacement of Japanese prisoners in World War II: 70Acknowledgment amount, estimate allocation, can be transferred, reduced by 23 000 000 from NOK 38 800000 to NOK 15 800 000572Room grants to county municipalities [[(see section 4.4). cap. 950):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e8060	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 76, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party of the Christian People's Party and the Left. This is also a proposal which is due to errors in the proposal for a decision in the vote. The proposal reads as follows: Chapter.PostDestination:Crones732Regional health enterprises71Additions to Health East RFH, may be transferred, reduced by 850 000from DKK 10 713 079 000to kr 10 712 229 00072Additions to Health South RFH, may be transferred, reduced by 530000from kr 6 621 588 000to kr 6 621 058 00073Additions to Health West RFH, may be transferred, reduced by 370000from kr 4 801 038 000to kr 4 800 668 00074Additions to Health Middle Norway RFH, may be transferred, reduced by 285 000from kr 3 551 885000 to kr 3 551 600 00075. Chapter.PostObjective:Croner2450Air Transport Agency [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5450, 5491 and 5603):]] Cape Town Post Purpose:Croner5450Air Transport Agency [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2450):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e8324	A vote will now be taken on the Committee's position, with the exception of the chapters which have already been voted on and adopted in the two previous votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e14275	The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e14304	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of possible measures that can contribute to greater transparency of management salaries and contribute to a more sustainable development of management salaries; including the appropriateness of first imposing obligations on enterprises which are owned and controlled by the State as such. Document. No 8:94 from Øystein Hedstrom and others [[2001-2002]] to draw up guidelines on the employment conditions of directors of state-owned companies and central banks. [[2001-2002]] S. No 220
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e14343	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:136 [[2001-2002]] The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e14363	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ranveig Frøiland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 4 June 2002: «The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for rules that provide transparency for the public in securities registers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e14382	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ranveig Frøiland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess measures that may provide for a further strengthening of the certificates of basic funds as an equity instrument for unreformed savings banks.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-21.ana.ud2308e14457	Before we leave the Chamber, the President would like to thank all the representatives for the excellent cooperation shown through this spring session. The President would also like to thank all employees and all members of the Stortinges Press Release for the efforts that have been made to enable us to make the right and good decisions. At the same time, the President will take the opportunity to wish everyone a really good holiday, and to come back to the harvest in good shape and well prepared for a hard increase towards Christmas.
