ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e28	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e54	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Laila Dava State Council Ingjerd Shostat Council Ansgar Gabrielsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e73	I have a question for the Social Minister. In the context of the 2002 State budget, the Stortinget adopted a series of measures to be implemented by the Government, which were asked by the Government to take the initiative in relation to drug users. The government asked the government to improve the provision of drug users in the municipalities. It was requested that comprehensive action packages be developed for the provision of care and treatment for drug users. The majority also asked for a full review of the laws relating to mental health protection and the social care law, as well as other laws that mention drug abuse, on the basis of the objective that the responsibility for treatment should also be assigned to healthcare professionals. It is unlikely that the Storting has given clearer signals that the supply of drug users needs to be improved. The Social Minister has also been high on the ground and the flag to take initiatives against drug users. Now we see that the government and the Minister of Social Affairs are right-wing in the field by area, and these are areas decided by the Storting that the Government should follow up. What does the Minister for Social Affairs intend to do to follow up on the three areas I have mentioned now and in other areas related to drug use?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e84	It is necessary to strengthen the specialist health service for drug users and also to clarify the responsibility of the specialist health service for this group. This is firm. This was also taken into account by this government at the time of accession. The Ministry of Health has already been responsible for health measures for drug users as from 1 January of this year, such as medically assisted rehabilitation and low-threshold health services. Substantial increases in appropriations for these purposes were also proposed, to which the Storting also joined. It has also been consulted on a proposal to transfer the specialist health service of drug users from the county to the state of regional health establishments. The transfer of responsibility must take place in a way that ensures an up-to-date and good offer to users. It must also be possible for healthcare undertakings to assume responsibility for the specialist health services. Health businesses are now facing major challenges related to the implementation of the hospital reform and have asked for more time to prepare for the acquisition of these drug institutions. In the light of these observations in the consultation round, it is submitted for implementation on 1 January 2004. There is a lot of pressure on the work on the bill to be promoted for Stortinget. It is important that we have a place of responsibility for measures that have the character of specialist health care. It is the transfer of responsibility that is deferred. And it is not that drug users now have to wait longer for new measures. This case concerns the location of the service and the division of responsibilities between social health services. A number of those heard during the consultation round also pointed out that they wanted a future change in the organisation of the other interventions and that this should be done at the same time. The postponement also makes this possible. We are also working on getting a whole in the drug service, that responsibility should be made clear, that there should be enough capacity, that quality should be good enough and that responsibility is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e99	I see the Social Minister's answer as an explanation of why the Government does not follow up the Storting's decision to the extent and at the rate that the Storting has expectations of. I also record that the Stortinget has assumed that there must be a closeness to the treatment offer, precisely because it is the housing offer that needs to be improved, and that it is a comprehensive offer that we are talking about, including with regard to mental health protection. How, then, will the Minister of Social Affairs explain that now there is support for the Municipality of Oslo, which wants to put out drug services for competition, and that, if necessary, there will also be an offer for treatment to take place in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e106	I am very pleased with that supplementary question, because the starting point for the government's policy is that we should have sufficient competence and capacity here at home. Treatment abroad will be a niche – an offer that can be suitable for some. But that should be the exception, not the rule. I have made myself clear that treatment abroad is assessed if it can give users a better offer, and if the offer is professional. This is linked to Denmark and Sweden because the legislation that is tolerable is similar to ours. The starting point must be the needs of the users. In the case of some offers such as: Acute detoxification, offers abroad may be relevant for some. In the case of longer-term treatment courses, social rehabilitation, offers abroad will be poorly suited. When returning to society, getting help to live, get into work, establish social networks and be included, it has to be done in the community here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e115	There will be follow-up questions – Sigbjørn Molvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e118	In the context of the next year’s presentation of the government’s financial approach, the municipal economic proposition, the municipal minister admitted that the tighter financial regime for 2003 could mean a lower welfare offer in the municipalities. Care and organisation of actions, e.g.: in the case of housing for drug addicts, municipal responsibility is to a large extent. That is why we rely on well-functioning municipalities to make progress in this work. The question then arises: does the Minister of Social Affairs think that next year an economic approach for Norwegian municipalities that, according to the Minister of State for the Interior, will result in restrictions on welfare schemes is a good starting point for improving the situation of drug users?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e123	Because this year, 250 million has been added. kr more than the previous government had committed, and it has contributed to the municipal economic proposition of NOK 22.5 billion for what goes on for free revenues. Later corrected by the Council of State, cf. Page 2865 But I do not hide that it is a challenge in relation to the work done by municipalities in terms of welfare services. In any case, the objective is to make it possible to prioritise, and it has also been shown that municipalities have the ability to prioritise, for example: both prevention and, in particular, care for the elderly, despite the tight financial framework. But it's clear this is a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e132	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e135	The Minister of Social Affairs signaled early after she had taken over the department, that there was going to be a lot of work to do with drug treatment. Then we see that, among other things, the reform of responsibilities or the assumption of responsibilities is postponed on time. It will go over a year and a half from now until it is clear how the state will take over responsibility. Is it following in the right way? What happens in this vacuum that will now be until 1 January 2004? It was an argument at the time of the hospital reform that it had to happen quickly, so you didn't get such a vacuum. Now this will apply to all drug services. So the Council of State also says it's going to be bet. How does it harmonize with the proposal in the revised national budget, where several million people are taken from drug users’ interventions and transferred to this new directorate, rather than using it as a means of action for drug users?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e142	It is clear that the Government has a focus on the provision of drug users and that the measures already proposed by the Government in 2002 will be followed up. As regards the follow-up to drug reform, it is also established. Hearing opinions also ensure the simultaneous entry into force of drug reform I and II that this will be implemented at the same time. We have made a great deal of progress in the field of drug-reform. We've got a lot of useful input. What we're working on now is a review and a transposition, and we've also proposed in the revised national budget 5 million. precisely to review the institutions concerned by this work. We will also make proposals for the Storting which allow for simultaneous implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e149	John I. Alvheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e152	Let me first say how pleased I am that the Minister of Social Affairs took a positive view of detoxification and treatment abroad. In this area, they are much better both in Denmark and Sweden than we are in Norway. With regard to the reform of responsibilities and the transfer of specialised health services for drug users to enterprises, the government here seems to commit a serious breach of promises. As late as March 20 this year, the Health Minister confirmed in Stortinget’s Question Time that this would happen from 1 January 2003. My question is: is there any written evidence that companies do not want this reform from 1 January 2003 and are these documents available to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e159	The health undertakings to assume responsibility must be able to do so, and this is the overall assessment of the Government. When health businesses face major challenges related to the implementation of the hospital reform and have asked for more time to prepare for the acquisition of these drug institutions, the Government has also taken this into account when we have said that 2004 is the current year for implementation. But I maintain that this is a total assessment the government has made, and that the intention and ambition that we should have an implementation of the drug reform where responsibility is made clear is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e164	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e167	I have a question for the Davøy Council. When cash support was introduced, the main argument was that it should give better time to parents and children together. It's a goal that the Workers' Party fully shares. We have to make sure that it is possible to combine work and care for their own children. Therefore, the 1980s and 1990s were a story of a strong expansion of maternity leave, a greater possibility of withdrawing the time accounting system, a greater chance of caring for their own children. So in 1997 we got over the table without prior investigation a proposal to introduce a cash support at a cost of NOK 3 billion. According to Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, the then Minister for Children and Family Affairs, at a big meeting on Wednesday 10 June 1998 it was a response to the time squeeze, the time pressure of the 1990s, that many parents feel. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e176	Time's up. The question must come now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e179	... that parents don't have any more time with the kids. And then I ask the Council of State, Will she reconsider the cash support scheme when the goal is not achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e184	First of all, the starting point for the question is wrong. There's been more time with the kids. There are 1,300 more years' work with the children. This means that thousands of parents have more time with their children, perhaps not in full-time jobs, to say that, but they have reduced working hours. We know that. The size has also recently addressed an evaluation of the cash support where this is obtained, and probably results in the same figure, only that the survey says that parents use approx. 2.5 more hours a week for their children. So someone might think that this is too small. But we had three goals with the cash support. One was more time – that's right. The second was the freedom of choice for parents. The third was that they wanted greater justice for those who did not have kindergarten space compared to those who had been given kindergarten space and were thus subsidized by the state. So we've had three purposes of the cash support, and everyone's more or less fulfilled. The most important thing for me is that the freedom of choice for the parents is present. I think parents know what's best for their child. The possibility of getting more time for the children is very common. It's actually 75 pst today. by parents who have children of a cash-assisted age who withdraw cash support to a greater or lesser extent. It tells me that this is also a wish from the parents. But freedom of choice is not fully respected until we have full childcare coverage, and that is what we work together to ensure. The cash support will not be terminated if it is up to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e194	In the same debate in 1998, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs at that time, Mr Haugland, said that ‘the time pressure will decrease, and the need to spend more time on care tasks will increase. This is the very core of what we want to achieve with cash support. The Council of State now says that 1 300 years' worth of this. This means that you pay approx. 2.5 million. kr per. A year’s work you get with the children. Is there not a better way to spend the money, which makes sure that many more people have more time with their children, that at least there can be adjustments in the cash support so that we can get better time for parents and children between them? At the same time, we know that the nursery was given a stop when the cash support came. It ranged from 10,000 to 12,000 places per year in the 1980s and 1990s to about 12,000. 3000 places per year. This is what has led to the fact that freedom of choice is not real, because you just don't have a kindergarten to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e203	I think I share Mr Giske's concern about the timing. We know that toddlers' parents are in time together, and many would probably want to be more with the children. But we've given an opportunity. That possibility was not present before the cash support came. At least you must not give the impression after the new study that about all the billions that go to the cash support go to those who are now a little more at home with their children. It's actually 75 pst. by the parents who are currently using the cash support to a greater or lesser extent. Then I would like to say that while we were receiving the cash support, the 6 year-old reform came. I do not overlook the fact that this too has had a significant impact on kindergarten development. Otherwise, the representative Geske knows well all the issues related to why we don't have enough kindergartens. These include: that the use of the instrument has not been good enough. That's what we work together to try to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e210	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e213	It is enough that we disagree on the policy instrument to be used to create a better everyday life for our kids. I guess that's why we're in different parts as well. So we just have to live with that. But I would like to ask the Council of State to think again about the cash support, because the Government is now holding the key to whether we can spend the money in a much better way. What it boils down to with this survey and the evaluation of the cash support that we have recently implemented is, in fact, that the parent demand is a nursery place. Of course, all the parties work intensively to find solutions on how to get full babysitting. But here it's $3 billion that goes to something that we're now very disagreed about is the best solution. [[President clubs]] There's no shame in turning, as it's called in the mountain-wet rules. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e220	It is later that questioners too can be hit by the time bracket, not only by young children’s parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e223	I would like to state that it is actually not the case today that those who withdraw cash support are essentially parents who have not been given kindergarten. I want to make it firm. In fact, there are some parents who write letters to the Minister for Children and Family stating that they are very happy to receive cash support, which has actually given them the opportunity to either work a little less or to spend periods with the children. So it's not like that. I know that the Workers' Party has wanted to get the most into kindergarten, but there are some people who want alternatives, and I'm glad we have. It's a little exciting discussion we have just today after the new study, because I set up as the head of the Nursing Association when the cash support was introduced, and what that organisation and also the Workers' Party were concerned about at the time was that we were going to lose a lot of labour, that most would run home and be home with their children. That hasn't turned on yet. People want to work something, and maybe be a little bit more with the kids, which has also happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e230	May Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e233	SV is the only party that in its budget removed the cash support, because we thought it did not work after the intention. During the evaluation of cash support, on which the Council of State was involved, it was found that mothers, in particular, are employed in the health and social sector who work less. It is also a feature of development that cash support leads to more part-time and less full-time work for women. This does not seem to be a desirable development, because it enumerates women who have low wages with poor working conditions and poorer opportunities to earn equivalent pensions compared to men. The study also shows that mothers have adapted in terms of reduced working hours. It has been claimed that there is an unused care potential among fathers. The cash support does not mobilise this. Does the Council of State for Equality think that this is OK, that it is a good development, and that this is an expression of freedom of choice for parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e238	I would very much like to see far more men avail themselves of the opportunity that lies for more time with the children. Unfortunately, this has not been done according to the evaluation of the cash support, but as I have previously pointed out in the Stortinget on other questions, there are also other issues related to why most women are at home when the children are young. Many of us have probably experienced the same thing: being married to men who serve far better than us. As Minister for Gender Equality, I must therefore also work intensively — and do — in the field of gender equality. I hope that the work evaluation project that is now under way, which is going on with full enthusiasm, will make it possible for us here too to see a much greater justice a little after a while, so that even fathers can afford to be at home with the children, and that there is not too much going on in the economy. Otherwise, I once again want to point out the possibilities we have – the freedom of choice for the parents. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e245	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e248	I think the main reason why the cash support was adopted was that the cash support was considered a time reform. Now we see, no matter how we turn around and turn on the numbers, that there is limited to what extent there has become more time to get together between parents and children. The government tends to be concerned with the fact that schemes are set up by an institution shall be targeted. It does not seem to be the case in this case, and I believe that the obvious thing to do when we have now got a good deal of numbers on the table is to limit the cash support so that you say that only those who choose to be at home with the children will have cash support. And my question to the Council of State is whether there will be an arrangement that she will reflect on, not least so that we can ensure that we have in the long run a cash support scheme that just contributes to what it was supposed to be, namely a time reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e256	Once again I would like to point out that there were three different objectives with the cash support. I'm not going to repeat them. And I want to say that parents are more at home with the children. There may have been different expectations as to how much this would turn out, but at least it shows that parents are more than two and a half hours per child. the week after the introduction of the cash support. It is also a reality. The question raised by the representative Haga has been discussed. And no, I haven't had and I don't intend to take that question up again. It has been discussed among the political parties in the past, and I see no reason why parents should not also have an freedom of choice in this area when it comes to how they want to use the cash support. Once again, I have the genuine belief that parents know what is best for their children, and it was also important when it came to government subsidies, to equate financially with those who had kindergartens and those who didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e265	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e268	I have a question for the Davøy Council. In recent times, we have been able to read, for example: in the daily newspaper Sunday, 12 May, that the Council of State believes that children should decide more in their daily lives, and that the Council of State in the context of the revision of the Children's Act, among others. will propose that minor children have the right of destination in respect of which of the parents the child wishes to live. We have also heard from professionals that it is unheard of that, for example. a seven-year-old must choose either mother or father in the event of a breakup. Should this not be a matter between parents, without expecting a child to have opinions on the matter? We know that a number of conflicts arise in child distribution matters, and that conflicts persist in who should have the daily care of the child. The Council of State considers that, for example: You want a seven-year-old to decide where he or she's going to live? And doesn't the Council of State think this could put a seven-year-old in a serious loyalty conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e279	First, I want to make it clear that I do not believe that children should have the right of destination in such cases. But what is my starting point is that Article 12 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child requires Member States to: ‘guarantee a child who is able to form his/her own views, the right to express his/her views freely in all matters relating to the child and give the child’s views due weight in accordance with his/her age and maturity’. So we're talking about children's rights and their ability to express themselves in matters relating to them. And in this regard, we're working on a proposition with changes in the Children's Act. I want to raise this issue as part of the work on that law, and possibly propose a change in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. But it is not a matter of children having decision-making powers. It must be grown-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e289	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Nevertheless, we have seen many ghastly examples from nationwide TV where the child has been used as a weapon in the fight of parents, and it is very much to demand from a seven-year-old that he or she – whether it is a right or an opportunity to speak – should choose sides after an uproaring break in life. This problem could have been solved in a much more flexible way by the Stortinge, for example. adopts a proposal from the Progress Party on automatic shared care, which some both from the Right and the Christian People's Party have spoken before. And then I would like to ask the Council of State: Will automatic shared care be part of the change in the Children's Act when this is presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e298	I agree with the representative Woldseth that we have seen many problematic issues when families go into disintegration, where children in different contexts are torn between their parents. In any case, children are strongly affected by family conflicts, even when families break up. I'm not talking about children necessarily having to speak, but many children, even though they are under the age of 12, actually have a lot of opinions and perhaps want to be allowed to express their own opinions by means of good caregivers. That's the question we're raising, in the context of the revision of the Children's Act. So this will come to the hearing, and we'll get a number of points of view. I'm sure the debate will be big. I've already noticed some newspaper posts, and I think that's positive. Of course, when it comes to shared care, it's something that we're going to follow up. What we end up with, it's too early for me to say, but it's raised as a problem, and it'll be censured, to say it like this, in connection with the Children's Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e305	There will be follow-up questions – Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e308	A large number of requests are made for parental conflicts in the event of a breakup of life as a proxy and as a member of the family committee. It's tragic and bad things that go out on both children and adults. Many countries have moved towards shared care as a general rule in the event of a breakup. This takes away much of the struggle about the child, and it forces parents to cooperate. It puts the children in the center and takes primary consideration of them. I believe that the Council of State has not yet concluded on what will be included in this revision of the Children's Act. My questions are: What reasons can the Council of State see that you may not want to enter into shared care? When can we expect the specific issue of the child law to come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e315	The matter comes to Stortinget till the fall. I believe the representative Knudsen and I agree that it is wise and proper for children to have contact with both parents. That's the starting point for all the work we do. I am of the genuine opinion that regardless of whether the parents live together or not, it is important that the child has contact with both parents, both mother and father. When it comes to the issue of shared care, I do not want to advance anything in relation to what comes to the harvest. I can't answer it exactly, but of course I'm taking with me the views that come from the pulpit in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e324	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e327	I want to follow up on something more in relation to the fact that the Municipality of Oslo wants to compete with parts of the drug service, and I therefore have a question for the Social Minister. The Minister of Social Affairs said today that this treatment abroad should be exceptional and adapted to the individual. But when it comes to outsourcing and you use the tendering principle, it's probably more price and the measurable units there that count, than to tailor a scheme for a special person. The measures for drug users are many. Treatment during detoxification and weaning is one thing, but at the same time it needs to build up a drug-free, normal living situation with a proper place of residence, work, often with a previous need for education and vocational training — at all a social network in the neighbourhood where the drug user is in and wants to be in the future. By putting this out of competition, moving it abroad, you don't get that close. I would like to follow up on this with the supervisory task, but the Council of State will be able to answer the first question now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e337	First, I would like to say that I have been made aware that I have supplied a wrong information, which should be corrected. It was said that municipalities received NOK 2–2.5 billion more in free income, but that is total income. So to the question. My starting point is that we should have sufficient competence, and we should also have the capacity and quality of the offer in relation to the care at home. With regard to the special situation in the Municipality of Oslo, there is reason to state that the municipality does not compete in the area but buys services under public acquisition law. The municipality of Oslo is the absolute administrative centre for the quality assurance of interventions for drug users. And based on a Swedish computer system, a quality assurance system has been developed, approved by the City Council, based on Swedish research, which is considered world leaders in this field. But the main point is that the offer should be good enough and large enough, and that there are offers here at home that have first priority. In the case of long-term treatment courses and social rehabilitation, offers abroad, including in Sweden and Denmark, will be very poorly suited. In order to return to society, networks, help to live and get into work must be provided in the community at home. This is a responsibility for the municipalities and the county councils, but also for the state. In this way, I understand that the intention is the same with the questioner as with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e344	I probably don't share all the views of the Social Minister. However, in terms of quality assurance, and that the Municipality of Oslo is a specialist in quality assurance for drug users, we hope that they are also specialists in quality assurance for the elderly, in relation to the competitive outsourcing there. We have recently received in the media some examples of the fact that anti-competitive care for the elderly in this area is not the best. So to this with supervision and quality assurance. According to the media, there is a clear disagreement between the district doctor in Oslo and the state councils as regards the supervisory authority vis-à-vis foreign institutions. The Council of State has now had a few days to prepare this. What does the Council of State have to say today about the possibilities of such outsourcing to enter and ensure that the offer is good enough, that a county councillor, for example, where appropriate, may enter and follow the offer and be able to ensure quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e351	I would like to state once again that the Municipality of Oslo does not compete in the field, but buys services under the law on public acquisitions. In Swedish institutions, with some experience in relation to the Municipality of Oslo, the Board of Directors has supervisory powers, even if there are Norwegian clients in the institutions. In addition, the practice is that the drug budget carries out monitoring visits once per year. years, either the institution is located in Norway, Sweden or Denmark. In addition, the local social services, i.e. the metropolitan part of Oslo, carry out several follow-up and surveillance visits. But this is an area that I'm going to follow closely, so that we have clarity in this for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e358	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e361	It does not surprise anyone when I say that I have a slightly different view than both the last and the previous questioner who addressed this with the possible outsourcing of competition and the use of other countries' services in the care of drug users. We must, among other things, acknowledge that the offer we offer in Norway is not good enough, it is long waiting lists. We also need inspiration from abroad, we need inspiration from other environments, cf. some of the models we use in Norway for detoxification and weaning, such as the Minnesota model and some other things that Norway has not developed. Is the Council willing to look at the Norwegian offer, to ensure that we also have a sufficient number of places in Norway for those who need it? Will the Council of State quickly ensure that we get a significant increase for more clients in the use of methadone and Subutex? And further, does the Council of State agree that it doesn't matter which side of the Norwegian-Swedish border you get an offer, as long as the drug user gets an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e368	As I pointed out earlier, it is important that we have sufficient capacity in the Norwegian offer, that there is good enough quality and flow in the treatment chain and a clear responsibility here at home. It is also important here at home to do research in this area, because we can do too little in relation to what actually works out of drug services, and what is the correct dosage to get effect. It has been a target for us in 2002, it also carries the budget for this year's bid, and we are going to follow up the effort we had in relation to methadone, especially for 2002, in our further work. It is important to stress that Denmark and Sweden — which are exceptional — are the two countries which have legislation that is compatible with Norwegian legislation. In addition, I do not think that drug users should be sent for services where quality, capacity and effectiveness have not been guaranteed, and that this is as important as motivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e375	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e378	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. In today's business last Friday, the research manager Ådne Cappelen of the Statistical Central Bureau stated that the development of Norwegian industry has been much worse than expected in recent years. In the revised national budget, the Government itself determines that industrial production fell last year and that competitiveness is significantly impaired. The working party is committed to preventing such development. But it doesn't seem like the government is taking the situation seriously enough. After the suggestions and opinions that come along, it seems the opposite. The government has cut massively in transfers for the development of new industries, and the use of money in the revised national budget is increasing worryingly. Do the Councils see the seriousness of the situation? And if he does, why have the measures let him wait? And does the government plan to do something to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e389	As the questioner suggested, employment, industrial production and the competitiveness of Norwegian industry have been weakened throughout the 1990s. There are several reasons for this. We've had a lower productivity growth than our competitors, we've had a smaller increase in the technology content of our products, we've had a higher interest rate, we've had a higher wage and price rise. There are many things that affect the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Now it would probably be a shame to blame this government for the situation that has persisted in the 1990s, in relation to what this government could have accomplished in the six months it has been in place. But at least what I can say is that we are more than concerned about maintaining the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, but there are, as I said, many factors that affect it. Now I guess the questioner didn't directly suggest what it was he was thinking about when it was about massive cuts in what was going on to speed up the industrial employment. But at least I feel absolutely convinced that the most important thing for Norwegian industry to be part of the important district employment we have had is that we have a general framework for the industry that is competitive in relation to the countries with which we compete. There are many things that affect you. Perhaps the most important thing is that we keep fiscal policy in order, that we have a level of interest that is now not running smoothly, and that we have a cost and wage trend for the rest that is not completely detracting from our competitors. And of course, in the case of a competitive Norwegian business, and not least for the powerful industry, what we do about the ESA case related to the electricity charge will be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e398	I interpret the answer as that the government has not intended to do anything concrete. However, what the Government has done in the revised national budget is to make maximum use of the economic opportunities it has. This in itself will lead to that in Norway we will still have an excessive interest rate. On top of that, the Government has provided a climate notification with quota trading that will selectively affect industrial enterprises. Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss has been out and announced that the industry will be charged electricity. And then we have a historically high dollar rate. The Minister of Industry has previously stated that he is in favour of extraordinary charges. Does the answer to the Minister of Industry now mean that he does not have a say in his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e403	I guess the last question doesn't expect the questioner to answer. In the case of an electricity charge or not a electricity charge, at least I would like to remember what happened in this room a year ago. Then I was at least one of those who helped to drive back the workers' party government's proposal to introduce an electricity charge for the industry. I definitely see that the total tax and tax burden to which the Norwegian industry is subject is an important piece in measuring competitiveness, including, of course, the electricity tax. Now it's like we're in dialogue with ESA to make arrangements that are within the framework. Within such a system, there are several alternative solutions that are common, both schemes involving electricity taxes and schemes in which no electricity tax is imposed. The government's view of it will probably be presented the first week of October.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e411	There will be follow-up questions – Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e414	I heard in the previous reply that the Minister of Industry believes that interest rates are an important factor, and I fully agree with him on that. But does the Minister think that the revised national budget now presented by the Government points in the right direction in terms of reducing interest rates? But to my main question, where I'm going to go concretely into two industrial companies: Odda Smelting Plant is a company that now has major challenges, and is about to stop completely. They have taken the initiative to restructure their production which is highly environmentally friendly and which will bring it on a whole new track. There is a remarkable inaction on the part of the Minister of Industry and the Government on that issue. I can mention the other company that now seems to be facing a bad future, namely Braathen's "aircraft workshop at Sola, the only aircraft workshop we have in Norway. In SAS, the state is the joint owner – once again an incredible inaction by the Government and the Minister in relation to backing up a little and helping to find solutions to these major challenges we have. [[President clubs]] What does the Minister for Industry intend to do? Or should he still be a passive spectator?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e421	The President reminds us that you have to structure your posts so that you can ask the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e424	Sounds reasonable to me, President. But although the representative had not been asked the question, I understood where he wanted to go. To Odda Melting Works and Inaction: I do not report to the representatives daily what I do. But to the extent that it should be of interest to what has been done by initiatives relating to Odda Smelteverk, I can say that there have been meetings with up to several government councils. There has been a meeting with the Ministry of the Environment, with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and with the Ministry of Industry and Trade related to the actual situation of Odda Smelteverk. I've had a meeting with the board, with those in the administration, with the employees and with the owners to look at the possibilities that exist, related to individual projects that have been there. The conclusion was that there was no reason why the Ministry of Economic Affairs would intervene or recommend the Stortinget to grant special amounts to Odda Smelteverk. In the case of Braathens, which is part of SAS, I just want to point out that it's the owner and the board that do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e433	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e436	The newly elected board member of the Right, Jens Petter Ekorenes, said at a meeting in the SND that the Sunnmare industry is built up solely because the state has been helpful with loans and support. And he was talking about an alternative to flagging out. He was optimistic. It's possible to do it, but the option of flagging out is to get even better. But we need state help. Both loans and support from SND are still needed. He strongly warned against simply improving the general framework conditions. The process industry says the same thing: we have to keep the special conditions that we have. If it doesn't go wrong. The maritime industries say the same thing: we have to have tax conditions other than other industries in Norway; without that, we can't. All of these therefore require selective measures in addition to good framework conditions. I would like to ask the Council of State: who is it that addresses the Council of State and the Government, and that concludes that now it is only good framework conditions that will bring about Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e445	Morten Lund has some relatively erroneous premises when he asks the reason why there are only general framework conditions that the Government has as a means of bringing about new start-ups and further development. It is simply a complete error. We spend billions on selective measures in Norwegian industry, in Norwegian business, to speed up innovation and innovation. What we have said is that, in the review we have of the instruments, we will adjust the focus to a greater extent on start-up – in order to achieve more new start-ups. In the case of Ekorenes, the representative named him as a newly elected member of the Right Central Council, which is correct. And as the media has shown, I was a significant contributor to it. I think it is important to include people from business in political parties too – they are the ones who wear the shoe. I would also recommend other parties. I think it would be very wrong to say that the Sunnmare industry has only been created because of SND and state measures. That, I think, is an insult to the Sunnmare industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e454	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e457	International marketing of Norway as a tourist country is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. On a recent state visit to Canada, Queen Sonja made an article. As far as I know, the Council of State Gabrielsen was also present there. During the Questionnaire, the Queen was asked if Norway did enough to market the country touristically. The answer from the Queen was: «No, we're not good enough. We have so much more to offer than what is being shown today." We have much more to offer in terms of art, culture, history, tradition – and of modern Norway. So my question to the Council of State is, how will he follow up on this? I would like to remind you that there was a decision in Stortinget last year to step up this with the marketing and brand construction of Norway, a five-year plan. How, then, will the Council of State follow up on this in the State budget and in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e471	It is absolutely right that I had the pleasure and honour to be with the King and the Queen on state visits to Canada, where there were also many business events and a very successful event in the direction of the Norwegian Tourist Council, where Queen Sonja made a contribution and promoted Norway in an excellent way. What the Queen said in the follow-up, to which the representative Hedstrøm referred, I did not listen myself. But I don't ignore, of course, the Queen has said that we're not doing enough to get the qualities we have in this country, which I think is quite a consensus. I know exactly how much we spend per. the population and per capita; employed in this industry in relation to other countries, and I know that we are lower than some other countries. I am also fully aware of the Storting's views on this escalation plan, and I am of course prepared to reflect them in the state budget to be submitted to the autumn. I definitely believe that promoting Norway as a tourist country is sensible and effective. I also think that the conversion that is taking place in the Norwegian Tourist Council is very favourable in relation to this with a greater degree of general marketing — building the brand name Norway. In that way, Queen Sonja's posts at this tourist seminar in Canada were actually very useful and very good. It is also gratifying that both the King and the Queen participate so actively in promoting Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e480	I agree with the Council of State that Norway has a high potential as a tourist country, and in particular this applies to the districts, where we have a significant unused capacity and many women's jobs. So here's a huge opportunity for Norway. What is boring is that our competitors, neighbouring countries in Europe, are taking a greater share of these markets, while Norway is losing. The proportion of foreign tourists to Norway is downwards. The other countries spend more money and have more aggressive marketing. In the Progress Party, we have long had this as a field of activity also on our foreign budget. For what's a point here is that Norway can spend a lot of money internationally without it acting inflationary. And this is a general tool, because it benefits many industries, businesses and industries. Will the Council of State take this with it to the Government and try to make it a bet area and step up investment internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e490	It is quite right, as the representative Hedstrøm says, that tourism is very important for Norwegian regions. 7 pst. employment is in this industry, while industry only contributes 4 pst. GDP. There are 130 000 people working in this industry. It is one of the most important district industries. It is also true that tourism growth and growth in this industry are smaller in Norway than in countries with which it is natural to compare. We see that tourism from abroad has not increased as much as it has in other countries. Now there's probably a lot of reasons for that. I don't think it's just because of the level of marketing. I actually believe – or I know from reports – that the level of fees we have, among other things. alcohol is a contributing cause of this. As I said, there are many reasons for this. But, of course, I am concerned that the government will follow up what the Stortinget has said about stepping up the promotion of Norway as a tourist country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e497	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e500	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. In the context of the debate on the modernisation, efficiency and simplification of the public sector on 31 January 2002, the following decision was taken: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure the ability of the public sector to recruit and maintain labour through equal pay for women and men and an offensive wage and employer policy’. In the Question Time on 8 May 2002, State Council Victor D. Norman replied to a question from Karin Andersen that a measure to achieve greater wage equality between women and men is to ensure that women entering the labour market now have equal opportunities and that they are as easily able to get the jobs they want, as is the case for men. It must be a total misunderstanding on the part of the Government if you think, for example, that. nurses and other groups of professionals fighting for equal pay and better working conditions want other professions. They have long-term education and carry out important societal tasks, which the Government has not indicated to be eliminated. In what way will the Council of State Laila Davayy follow up the decisions of the Equality Act on equal pay and the decision taken in the Stortinget on 31 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e514	I think we have to work on more levels if we're going to be able to achieve equal pay for women. But it's also a reality that Victor D. Norman was concerned about in his answer, that women should have equal choices. Unfortunately, today we see that in terms of leadership positions, which may also be the highest paid, very few women hold these. I might be thinking about business in particular. We have also had a debate on how to get more women on board, which the representative is also well aware of. I would like to point out that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who is also the Minister for Gender Equality, cannot, of course, interfere directly with wage-earnings, as the Stortinget is familiar with. But what I've done as a Minister for Gender Equality, who I was talking about earlier today on another question, is start a work evaluation project. And it's a very comprehensive project. It's come to a fine start. A number of enterprises from both the public and private sectors have opted to be there. I believe that we need to make the value of the work of women-dominated professionals much more visible. Work evaluation projects have been carried out with great success in a number of other countries, and have actually had an impact. I agree with the representative that it is not enough just to do one bit. We actually have to do more things. It's not enough just to say that women have to have equal choices. But that's an important point too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e523	I thank you for your answer. The SV has asked various questions to different government councils about how to recruit personnel for important societal tasks, because this is what this is all about. And as I was concerned with my question, it has not been said by the government that these different occupational groups should be laid down. What we've been asking is how to achieve gender equality, and the answers crack in different directions. The Council of State replied to me instead about cash support within the unfortunate effect we have seen in that connection, where the women choose to be at home. She then answered me that it is because they have less wages than men, therefore women choose to be at home. That's this level of pay we have to do something about, she said in the same answer. The Council of State is responsible for equality. Governments are responsible for equal pay development. What measures will she take in concrete terms? And how will she gather the government around the important question that we're about to raise?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e534	That's an important question. As the representative knows, I am very concerned about equal pay, and I still believe that although we have had a improvement in some sectors, it is actually a good thing again. We continue to discriminate against some women and some women-dominated professions. I don't think there's just one answer to this question. I don't think there's just one measure to be taken. In the case of equal pay and equal opportunities, there is also a general responsibility for everyone. It's a responsibility for all government councils, it's a responsibility for all employers. We have different actions in the department to focus on equal pay. We have different equal pay projects in Nordic context. In the EU sector, we also contribute to equal pay projects. There are different projects, they have different angles, they have different objectives — i.e. they do not have different objectives; they all aim to improve equal pay. What we're working on most actively right now is the work evaluation project. [[President clubs]] But it's possible – if I may say another sentence, President – that somehow you should have collected all the measures, because that's what May Hansen is asking for. Maybe I'll take it back with me, and see if we can get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e543	The President will note that it was a long sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e546	Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e551	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e554	I have a question for the Social Minister. The Bondevik government budget proposal for 2002 states that the government's policy to combat poverty is as follows: ‘There is no need for new time-consuming investigations or comprehensive planning documents to prevent action.’; The Council of State has now managed the Ministry of Social Affairs for seven months, and, according to the Government's own words, there is no need for new planning documents and investigations to combat poverty. The fight against poverty was to be a flagship for the new Bondevik government, but nothing is happening. Day after day, week after week goes without any suggestions from the social minister. What's she waiting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e566	This government has put the fight against poverty on the agenda of accession. We have also proposed measures that were supported in relation to the 2002 budget. It is therefore not right for the representative, Mr Olsen, to say that we are waiting. We've already acted. In addition, we have also always said that we are working on an action plan, so we are on the action page, and we are working on targeting, because we want it to work. It is gratifying to see that the Workers’ Party no longer uses the words ‘general arrangements’, but the word ‘smart’, and no longer uses the word ‘groups’, but ‘individuals’. This is a good starting point for the work we are going to do together in relation to the poverty action plan. It's coming to the harvest. We've defined what goes on who's poor. This work has taken time, precisely because we want it to work, and this is part of what we come with in relation to the action plan. Just to mention something, the concept of poverty includes those with low income, it has to do with duration, it has to do with lack of financial resources, it has to do with poor living conditions, lack of connection to work and poor living conditions. So the answer to the question is, we've done something in 2002. We're coming up with new measures. We have promised a plan of measures. It's related to the work we're going to do for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e576	I thank you for your answer. The debate on the same draft budget by the Bondevik Government states: ‘We can afford to prevent poverty in Norway if we are willing to look with new eyes at old welfare schemes.’ The government has just submitted a revised national budget. That's where the government's expenditure increases by about NOK 6 billion. Not one of these crowns is going to fight poverty. So the government says that we can afford to prevent poverty, and that there is no need for plans and investigations. Despite this, and despite the fact that money has been put into the revised national budget, there is therefore not a single proposal to do something about poverty. What's the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e588	I repeat: measures are proposed for 2002. It was adopted for 2002. The revised national budget is to revise a budget. We're working on an action plan. It's coming to the harvest. It has to be targeted. I am very pleased with the performances that the Workers' Party has made in relation to the fact that work will pay off, and look forward to further cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e595	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e600	There will be two changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question No 16, by Mr Ågot Valle, to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, lapses, as the questioner is suffering from disease. Questions 18 and 19, from the representatives of Anita Apelthun Säle and Arne Sortevik respectively to the Minister for Education and Research, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e614	‘Norway has an ongoing dialogue on human rights with China. What is the status of this dialogue in relation to the serious abuse and torture suffered by large groups due to their personal over-interpretation, and what is the Government’s view on the future direction and priorities at this point?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e621	Human rights have long entered into a natural part of Norway’s broader political dialogue with China. In 1997, the ongoing human rights dialogue was formalised and strengthened through the annual round table on human rights. Furthermore, current human rights issues are regularly discussed in international forums, such as the UN Commission on Human Rights. The Round Table brings together Chinese and Norwegian participants from both political life, management, academic environments and non-governmental organisations. The agenda is often broad and includes, inter alia: issues relating to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of organisation and other fundamental rights and the principles of the rule of law. At political level, Norway has addressed the use of torture and other abuses on a number of occasions with the Chinese authorities — including in the context of these Round Table conferences. During this year’s round table, which will take place in Beijing next month, torture and other abuse will again be brought up by State Secretary Vidar Helgesen in bilateral talks and during the round table itself – among others. in the context of discussions on human rights and the exercise of police and prison administration. Both bilaterally and multilaterally, we also regularly address the human rights situation in Tibet and the use of the death penalty in China. As another important part of the human rights dialogue with China, we also provide support for concrete human rights projects. Thus, the fact that we have an ongoing human rights dialogue with China does not mean that we are in any way restrained from exercising criticism when we believe that this is the basis for it – now at the latest during Prime Minister Bondevik's visit to China in January of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e641	Thanks for the answer. Falun Gong is a group of others who are being persecuted in China. According to Amnesty International, the largest group in the world today is being persecuted and tortured. Falun Gong are people who don't have a political agenda. On the contrary, at my discretion, they can be perceived as people trying to live by good, old virtues like truth, awareness and tolerance. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see too many so-called non-political groups being created a special situation in relation to human rights? It's just that these groups don't say in any way that they want to roll over the regime. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see these groups coming in a special situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e650	Bjørn Jacobsen is on a very important track, namely that as politicians we often tend to concentrate on those parts that have clear political overtones. But it is very important that society as a whole is designed so that all citizens of society feel that their rights are well preserved. It's just this broad approach angle that I think is very important in terms of human rights work in China. There is no doubt that in a number of areas we see many serious features that will be the subject of this dialogue. But luckily, it is also possible to register positive features. That is why we look forward to the next steps in this dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e655	Again: Thank you for your answer. That's true of a lot of areas. There are restrictions on freedom of expression, religious freedom, freedom of association, professional justice. And there's a breach in the justice system. We also have Tibet, and we have the Xinjiang problem. How is Norway going to bring this up in concrete terms in the current human rights dialogue in the summer? How concrete will Norway be, and what demands will one make to China, perhaps not least in relation to the trade that we are also going to have with China?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e662	As I mentioned, in a month's time, we'll have the next round table. Then there will be a broad dialogue with China on a number of questions raised. I'm not quite sure what Jacobsen meant by the last reference, to trade, but I would remind you that now China is a member of the WTO, and we are subject to the rules that apply there. If I can ignore that part of the question, I just have to confirm that the very dialogue we're going to have is wide, but it's also of a principle nature. This means that there is often also a need for specific lists. And that's what we like to deal with when there's political conversations, like it was done when the prime minister was visiting China not many months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e673	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘In its decision of 21 June 2001, the Government of the Ministry of Finance decided that the tax rate should be represented in White Seaside with an establishment office. By letter of 7 March 2002, the Ministry of Finance has re-assessed and decided that the department should be represented in White Seaid in an office with office function or in a public service office. What is the reason for this change?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e682	West-Telemark is an equation district, one of the smallest we have in the country. The five municipalities that make up the district have a total of 13,500 inhabitants. The district office, which is the administrative headquarters in the district, is located in Vinje. In addition, there is a branch office in Seljord and Fyresdal, and the office is represented in an office with office functions in Tokke and in Witteseid. This structure is very demanding to operate in relation to the intentions of the new model organisation of the equation management, which is to facilitate good trade unions and improve resource use. Ten-twelve employees are currently divided into three offices. A fourth office office in Witteseid will therefore, according to the Ministry's renewed assessment, be very unfortunate in relation to the intentions of the reorganisation. From May 2001, the Equation Function of White Seaid as a temporary scheme pending the implementation of the new office structure has been co-located to Seljord. This scheme appears to have worked well after the establishment's experience. There is a short distance between the White Seaid Center and the Seljord Centre, 18 km, Seljord is a trade center for the district, and many inhabitants of the White Seaid have their workplace in Seljord. Overall, the Ministry considers that the new organisation of Equation Management in West Telemark meets both the needs of the tax base for good trade environments and improved resource use and the needs of taxpayers for services and accessibility. The people of White Seaid shall be able to meet at least as well as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e691	I thank you for your answer. I wonder about this reverse operation from the department, and I refer to the long democratic process that led to the Stortinge choosing the district model when the structure of the equation center was created. I can't see that there have been any new moments in the matter that were supposed to bring about a changed decision in the department. The objections now raised by the Council of State have been known, and the government of Stoltenberg adopted the final structure last year, when the White House was assigned to the office of the office. I now see that the directorate uses arguments such as that most residents of White Seaid find few disadvantages in the fact that the agency has for some time been located in the neighbouring municipality of Seljord. My question to the Council of State is: Is this just a view from the Directorate's side, or is this view based on a real investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e700	It's hard for me to answer that question. I have to base the ethos assessments as well as professionally justified. Whether other assessments can be made in the light of practical experience, there are probably different points of view. But I do believe that an agency that has been required to strengthen its professional environment, to make better use of the taxpayers' money and to be accessible to taxpayers, must also be able to draw the practical experience that has been gained with the establishment structure, or the office structure, in West Telemark. That's why I'm going to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e705	I'll thank you once again for your answer. Let me try another angle of incidence. I also see that the directorate has used the argument that the housing of those added to the building is an argument in this case. Does the Council of State mean that this should be a criterion to be emphasised by reorganisations? And will the Council of State review this case again and go back to the original decision, i.e. a local office that is similar to the previous Equations Offices? Or is it so to understand that the matter is now finally settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e712	I do not see any elements that have emerged, either here or before, that would require a restatement of the decision. I repeat what I said in the introduction, namely that the population should be able to meet at least as good a service as before, with the office structure that is now selected. I also want to add that the important thing from the point of view of a government representative and a government council is that we get a qualified establishment, which is able to act properly and fairly towards taxpayers – in other words, the need for a good professional environment. That's the boss. In this context, the residence of the employees is subordinate to those of the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e724	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘In parts of the EU, new and almost sulphur-free environmental fuels will be introduced from winter 2003 onwards. Statoil and Shell are now investing heavily in the Mongstad refinery in order to be able to produce petrol according to these requirements already in the winter of 2003. However, this environmentally friendly petrol costs 12 to 15 cents more per year. litres to be produced. Will the Council of State in the 2003 budget propose the necessary tax cuts to ensure that this petrol will not be more expensive for the consumer than the corresponding fuel costs today?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e733	The EU is currently working on a new fuel directive. It is agreed that the sulphur content requirement for auto-diesel and petrol shall not exceed 10 p.p.m. – parties per million – and that such a sulphur-free fuel will be available on the market from 2005. Sulphur-free fuels are already available on the market in several EU countries. According to the Norwegian Petroleum Institute, Norwegian oil companies can supply such sulphur-free automobile diesel from 2003. The Norwegian Petroleum Institute has requested a tax advantage for sulphur-free automotive diesel and estimates the necessary tax incentive at 7 øre per øre. liters. With such a tax advantage, according to the Institute, almost the entire Norwegian market could be covered with sulphur-free diesel in the first few months of 2003. Similarly, it could be possible to stimulate a switch to sulphur-free petrol. The Mongstad refinery began work on a new plant for the removal of sulphur from petrol at the turn of the year. According to Statoil, this plant will be ready for production in the spring of 2003 and will then be able to supply petrol with a maximum of 10 p.p.m. sulphur. In the context of the 2003 budget, I will, in cooperation with the Minister for the Environment, assess whether it is appropriate to introduce a tax incentive for sulphur-free fuels. In this context, among other things: important to assess whether the environmental benefits of a transition to sulphur-free fuels are proportionate to the costs of such a transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e744	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. I interpret it so that he is positively prepared to do something about it. I think this is a good measure. An economic incentive here will be a good environmental contribution, it will also be possible to implement without any particular resistance in opinion, and it will have no dramatic negative effects. According to the information I have, it's 12 to 15 cents. I see that there is a new type of engine – it was in Dagbladet on Sunday – which means that by using such sulphur-free petrol, one will also use 30 pst. less petrol. So you're going to get less pollution per unit. quantity of petrol consumed, but one also gets cars that use less petrol. My supplementary question is: can the Minister of Finance not be a little more specific about whether he can make promises about incentives in connection with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e755	I don't have much on car engines at all, but I base the questioner's information and I think it's good if we can get car engines that are also cheaper in operation – that's exactly what I'm doing. Then there was the specific question, whether I can be more specific about what the Government is going to be in the 2003 budget. No, I don't want to be, either in this or in other areas. I think it's long and assertive practice for in the government's relationship with the Storting. I think it's wise. But the representative is right when he sees me as positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e764	I have to admit that I don't have anything special about car engines either. But this is an information that's been printed, and then one at least assumes that it's right. I'm sorry we can't get a concrete promise right now. As this hangs in the air, it will create security for the oil companies if they are to invest in this on the Norwegian market. In any case, if a tax incentive for this environmentally friendly petrol is not available, it would be difficult, not to say quite impossible to sell on the Norwegian market. So in this situation, we're producing environmentally friendly petrol in Norway, which is so much more expensive to sell if you don't get a tax incentive, that we have to export 100 pst. And no use of it in Norway. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e771	I do not think there is any basis for regretting anything in this case, because my impression is that the oil companies are working to make these new types of fuel, both diesel and petrol, available on the market anyway. But I see the point, that it would be an advantage if using the environmentally friendly fuel was not less favourable at price. That's what I've said in a positive way. The important thing is not what the Minister of Finance said in May, but what the Government and the Storting decide for the autumn, with effect for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e781	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: «Cinematicians in Bergen and Trondheim are important cultural institutions for the population, the film and TV environment and the educational institutions in their regions. They contribute to the presentation of films of historical value in their right element, making film-interested people outside Oslo also have access to film history. However, the State does not provide financial support to these cinematics, as opposed to Cinemateket in Oslo. What will the Council of State do to secure the operating economy of these institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e790	First of all, I would like to point out that cinematheka in Bergen and Trondheim can't easily be compared to Cinematheket in Oslo. Cinematography in Oslo is an integral part of the Norwegian Film Institute, which is a state-owned enterprise directly subject to the Ministry of Culture. The cinematographic works in Oslo fall within the scope of the ordinary State operating budget. That being said, I agree with the representative, Giske, that cinematic and film club have a very important role to play in spreading film culture and film history. It is a key objective of media policy to secure a cultural gap in the media supply. Cinemateka produces film culture that is characterised by quality and innovation, but which often will not be available through commercial distribution channels. Nevertheless, there can be no automaticity in the state support of all activities that play a positive role in Norwegian cultural life. It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis whether State aid is necessary and reasonable. The Norwegian Film Institute is responsible for State measures and instruments, including: dissemination of films and professional competence in this field. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has delegated responsibility for the addition of cinematographic activities to the Film Institute. It must therefore be up to the Norwegian Film Institute to consider the question of the propensity of cinematographers in Bergen and Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e801	Our cultural policy has at least two devices. One is to contribute to the creation of art. The other thing that's so important is that art is conveyed. In order to contribute to this, we provide state subsidies to a variety of forms of art and their dissemination. Galleries convey the visual arts, orchestras convey the musical heritage, and theatres convey the theatre heritage. But film art is also a mere beginning, which in this context is treated in a rather vocal manner. It's just Oslo getting state aid. That means that, in reality, it's only in the Oslo state that contributes to the showing of film history. I think that's pretty bad. State councils say the Film Institute has to assess it. My question will then be: Will the State Council contact the Film Institute, to be a driver, so that the rest of the country can also participate in the film history?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e806	I would like to stress once again that the reason why the Cinemate in Oslo receives state aid is that it is organised as it is, linked to the Norwegian Film Institute. When one delegates a responsibility as it has done in this area, and it also builds up the competence of the Norwegian Film Institute, I thought that the responsibility for whom a grant of State aid should lie there. We have a lot of cultural channels that don't get state aid, and we have some that get it. We've always had that two division. I'm in touch with the Film Institute at regular intervals and I can handle this with them, but there's not going to be any imposition or demand from me that they support it. I want to leave that decision to those who have actually been given the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e813	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is positive that she warns that she can take this up with the Film Institute, but without any instructions. This doesn't just have an art and cultural policy side. It also has a district policy side. We have regional centres in other parts of the country that should have access to film history. It means a lot to the film and TV environment, but it also means a lot to the educational environment in these cities when you have media education, film education, film history and art history – people should have absolute access to this film heritage. It's expensive to show historical films. It requires special viewers, and it requires trained engineers. That's why there's an extra cost of showing this historical material. That's why it's important that we from the overall cultural policy team help make this a reality, and I hope the Council of State will follow it up in its contact with the Film Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e822	I don't think I have so much to add, other than that I'm saying that what cinematea offers to the audience is positive. It is important that the videos that do not have their place on the normal cinema are shown on other scenes. Cinemataka is in that way a very good arena for it. So I take with me the invitation from the representative. Some of the arguments used in relation to state support can also be used in many other cultural media venues. We now have it so that some people get state aid, others get support from the municipality or the county where they are located. If Bergen and Trondheim were to receive state aid in addition to Oslo, we would have come a while on the way, but we would still not have the same supply in all cities or in all major cities. I'll take the signal with me, and then I'll finally let the Film Institute decide who's going to get state aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e835	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘Water lake is a drinking water source for 60000 people. The source is heavily contaminated, and many measures are needed to save drinking water. A fundamental problem is the lack of grass and milk production. Last autumn, it was agreed between the agricultural settlement parties that, prior to the agricultural negotiations this year, current cost-effective ways of increasing grass production in particularly vulnerable areas, including the identification of new milk quotas, should be explored. Why is this not followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e844	The representative Signe Eye correctly points out that, in the autumn of 2001, the parties to the agreement in agriculture agreed to look at cost-effective measures to ensure that farmers in the water catchment area and other contaminated watercourses move from cereals to grass production on areas particularly exposed to erosion. At the same time, it was agreed that this should be discussed in more detail during the year's agricultural negotiations. In winter, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research was tasked with assessing current cost-effective measures to move from grain to grass. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, NILF, has produced a report which was sent to the contracting parties prior to the agricultural settlement. The report shows that there is a very poor economy in starting milk production in order to increase grassland. It takes too much investment. The most cost-effective measures to convert from cereals to grass are either to produce grass for sale or to produce beef with suckler cows. Such conversion is stimulated through the current instrument system. In addition, suckler cows have been further stimulated through this year’s agricultural agreement. The assessment of the Contracting Parties has been adopted in the final protocol of the agricultural negotiations and the NILF report will be published shortly. This shows that the investigation needs have been followed up as agreed by the Contracting Parties last autumn and that the NILF investigation has been based on the assessment of the parties when it was agreed not to set aside specific milk quotas in the Morsa area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e853	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. If it's true as the Council of State says, that this report was dealt with during the agricultural negotiations, then I take note of it. But I still think this is sad. It's just more grass that in the long run can really help us get less run-off from agriculture to the watercourse. It is also sad because agriculture in Eastfold was really prepared to make a conversion that meant more grass and less grain, and thus much less pollution. In addition, the Council of State has been on a visit to Eastfold not long ago. He was not particularly inspiring, neither for having a cooperation nor for taking the heavy promises. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: in what way will now state council Sponheim inspire that farmers on a voluntary basis will convert to more grass production?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e862	Let me first say, of course, that's the right thing that the Council of State here is saying that this is set out in the Minutes. So I'll say that it's sad if development continues, if it continues with a run-off to Lake Vanity so that we get a greening and Lake Vanity can no longer be a source of drinking water. That's what the government is working on. I wonder very much about the representative’s claim that the Minister of Agriculture was not particularly inspiring on this trip. At least I was very inspired and strongly expressed that this is a priority task to continue with. But the Council of State is also an agricultural economist and understands well how farmers think when they think about economics. There is so much evidence that when a farmer asks whether it makes sense to move from grain production to permanent grassland, which then has to be processed through animals, there is a calculation on the ground. You don't do this out of your goodness, as Emil says in Mount Lønne. This investigation shows that this is not profitable. On the other hand, there are other alternatives in which there is better profitability, and these have been significantly strengthened through this year's agricultural agreement, not least through milk production, the right to meat production in cattle, so-called specialised suckler cow production. We hope that many farmers will contribute. And we would like to have a dialogue with agriculture in the area to get a lot of people to make use of the opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e871	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would argue that the Council of State must go into this cooperation with a slightly different perspective than what he expressed when he was in Eastfold. It was so that when the previous government started this collaboration and went in with just a few million dollars on the year's budget, it created a very well-being in agriculture in Eastfold. I want to give them credit because they've really managed to bring down the drain with quite a thousand tons already. The appropriations intended to be a start-up appropriation were to be accompanied by appropriations in the coming years. It was the left that went high on the track and characterised the starter as ridiculous. Then it is nice that the Minister of Agriculture said, when he was visiting, that this was a one-off grant, and that it will not be followed up with funds for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e878	I would like to stress that I have to say that in every way during this visit – I was actually there during the entire visit – I indicated that this cooperation should be strengthened. But it is not possible for a state council that travels around, to promise money that is not granted by the Storting. It will come in new budgets. I am sure that if I had given myself the promise of money that the Stortinget had not granted, then if the representative Signe Eye had not responded in particular, others in the opposition would respond to the fact that this did not have the Council of State powers to do so. The main point is that we now have all the good forces – and it has to be fought on many fronts – to bring down the drain to Lake Van. Agriculture is an important contributor to this run-off and it is desirable that many of these areas can move from grain production, where it must be ploughed or opened up each year, to permanent grassland — at least for several years — where the roots bind the soil. This can be done through specialised grass production, which is cost-effective, and it can be done through animals, for example: suckler cows, as this government of this agricultural agreement has made a truly good economy as opposed to the past. As a result, there has been a new alternative to using the grassland in this area. We're going to try to stimulate this as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e888	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «In ordinary Question Time on 20 March d.o.b. the Minister for Health said that from the turn of the year the Ministry of Health should take over the overall responsibility for the provision of health services to drug users. Does the Council of State maintain this position?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e897	I see, according to the representative Alvheim's question, that there may be reason to clarify more precisely what is involved in the new responsibilities in this area. Many drug users have extensive health problems and treatment needs, while much indicates that they do not receive the necessary help from health care and treatment. As a result, since 2002, the government has taken a clearer responsibility for the general health services of drug users, including somatic hospital treatment and emergency medicine. The Ministry of Health has assumed responsibility for lowthreshold health measures for drug users and for medically assisted rehabilitation. Furthermore, from 2002 onwards, we have started work to strengthen the provision of treatment to drug users. This was what was in my reply to the representative Alvheim in the Questionnaire on 20 March of this year, when the theme was the availability of somatic hospital treatment for drug addicts. So I aimed for the change that happened at the turn of the year that we passed, and as the Stortinget was notified in the Bondevik government's supplementary proposal to the State budget for 2002. As part of the strengthening of the treatment provision for drug users, the responsibility for treatment measures is provided for in the Special Health Services Act transferred to the State from 2002, i.e. about 20 pst. of the total treatment provision for this group. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are now working on the future anchoring of the remaining part of the treatment for drug users. A proposal for a redeployment of responsibilities has been at the consultation stage and is now being prepared with a view to changes from 2004, as announced by the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2002. The objective is to ensure adequate health care provision and to further develop treatment provision within a comprehensive framework. A better treatment provision for drug users, as provided by the Government, requires that we take into account the different needs of drug users and the need for a varied and comprehensive system of action with clear responsibilities. This is a demanding and extensive work. In order to ensure a coherent, good and sound reform, we are committed to implementing it from a later stage than was initially envisaged in the consultation round. The municipality continues to be responsible for Chapters 4, 5 and 6 of the Social Services Act. primary responsibility for providing advice and guidance, for relief measures, and for providing treatment facilities and follow-up during and after institutionalisation. The overall responsibility for drug users’ interventions is thus still enshrined in the social service and is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. When, from 2002, the Government has taken and placed a clearer responsibility for drug users, this action involves several areas. I mentioned medically assisted rehabilitation and low-threshold health interventions and the work on the future anchoring of the overall treatment system, while the Social and Health Directorate is now reviewing the overall functioning of healthcare provision in relation to this important group. The government will also provide a separate action plan on drug problems to be submitted to the autumn as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e910	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which was good information, but I guess not the answer to the question I asked. I would refer to this as a solid government commitment if this reform were to be postponed until 2004, and I would like to refer again to the Minister of Health's reply to me in the March 20th Questionnaire, in which he confirmed that from 1 January 2003, drug users would become responsible for health services legislation; at least this is what I see. I have recorded great disappointment in the drug addicts' environments since the information about the postponement of this reform became known, and as I know the environment, this postponement can actually cost lives. Will the Minister of Health review the position of the Department and transfer the legal responsibility for the health care of drug addicts from social legislation to health legislation from 1 January 2003, or is the matter so far fully settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e919	First to my answer in the Questionnaire on 20 March. I have carefully reviewed the stenographic record, and what I said was that the government has decided that: ‘The Ministry of Health from the turn of the year was to assume overall responsibility for the provision of health services to drug users’. And on the other hand, ‘When, from the turn of the year, I have taken a greater responsibility for this area, it is my goal that we should have a stronger health care effort in general for this group.’ And so it referred to the change that actually happened on 1 January 2002, which was announced in the budget statement for the autumn. As far as further work is concerned, the Government's clear objective is to strengthen the service of this group. Part of it is this review of responsibilities, but we are also working on concrete measures to strengthen service provision wherever it is, regardless of changes in responsibilities. And it's going to continue with unimpaired strength, regardless of the fact that one has now found that one needs some more time to implement such a reform, after the consultation that has been held.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e937	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I have registered that the Minister of Social Affairs has given the reason for the postponement that health businesses were unable to take on this task from 1 January 2003. I personally and as the head of the Social Committee have been in contact with most health companies in the country, and I have so far not heard one word that companies had problems taking over this task from 1 January 2003, provided they were given resources to do so. I have a distressing feeling that when this reform is postponed, there is a monetary problem we are talking about, a lack of willingness by the Government to allocate the necessary resources to get the reform in place from 1 January 2003. Can the Minister of Health here and now confirm that there is a lack of resources that is the problem, and not a lack of willingness from businesses to take over this responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e946	This is not on the will of either the Government or the undertakings. But when a person goes through such an important part of health care as we are talking about here, there has to be clarity in the financial framework conditions; there has to be sufficient clarity about which activities are covered, so that there is no disagreement about this stealing professional and management attention. An overall assessment of such factors has led to a clear conclusion by the Ministry and the Department of Ownership: a well-prepared start in 2004 will benefit the purpose better than a start in 2003 where there is insufficient clarity in the framework conditions. I would add that the round of consultations we have had has supported this. However, it is not the case that companies have given any notice to the Ministry that they wish to oppose a transfer earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e957	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Health: ‘In order to avoid a temporary stop in the ambulance operation in Vang i Valdres, Vang has been working with Oppland County Municipality and the Regional Council of Valdres funded the ambulance since 1 March. The municipality has been signaled that the health region will take over ambulance operations again if the health region economy improves. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the health region, which has been responsible for ambulance operations since the New Year, is actually responsible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e966	The Ambulance Service in Vang, as elsewhere in Norway, shall function satisfactorily. This was the case when the county was in charge, and it is the case when health companies are now in charge of the service. As in all services, it is an independent point that users have confidence in the service. This is not least the case for an emergency service, such as the ambulance service. It has to do with quality of life to make the population secure that a good ambulance service will be there when the need arises. In the new business system, it's my responsibility that the ambulance service works. From that point of view, I would like to draw up three aspects that I think are important, and I would like to relate them to the development of a good ambulance service also in Vang Municipality. Firstly, it is important that health businesses are given the role that the Storting decision of the Health Business Act requires. Here it is a central point that the regional health undertaking should be given the opportunity to find good and comprehensive solutions for the region and that the hospital establishments in operation should have the necessary flexibility in the practical operation. The model would fall if it developed a broad practice of central management in individual cases. I am also quite sure that such a practice of decisions in individual cases taken by institutions far away from patients will be more damaging than for the benefit of those concerned. Secondly, the business model does not, of course, mean that it is free from the way in which health businesses tackle their tasks. It must comply with the service requirements laid down by the Storting Act and other large-scale decisions. There is also a responsibility for governance and follow-up on central authorities to ensure that the services are consistent with the objectives set by political bodies. In addition to this follow-up responsibility, the State Health Authority and County Medical Officers have a supervisory responsibility when doubts arise as to the adequacy of the services. Both the management measures and the activities of the supervisory authorities are important in the follow-up to the overall responsibility of the Ministry and I for the functioning of the healthcare system. Thirdly, services rarely become good if they are not developed in good dialogue with those who are to use the services. For me, therefore, it is crucial that developments take place in contact with both users/user organisations and regional and local policy bodies. Based on the requirements imposed, regional health enterprises are now establishing a practice of user selection and with corresponding venues for dialogue, contact and involvement of users and local and regional policy bodies. So this is the framework for the responsibility of Health East for developing a good ambulance service. It is important that politicians take responsibility for the development of good systems, but in the last round, it is how the services meet users who decide how healthcare works. So let me finish with some comments on how Health East is working so that it's also going to be a good ambulance service in Vang. Health East is responsible for the ambulance service in Valdres. That responsibility is now assumed by Oppland Central Hospital. The need for ambulance services is affected by several factors, such as: the organisation of the municipal medical services also has an impact on the use of ambulances. Health East is now re-assessing the need for ambulance services in this area and will decide on the temporary continuation of ambulance operations in Vang in Valdres from 1 August. I want to keep myself informed about how the company handles this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e985	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was nothing to say about the use of words here. The Council of State was concerned that users should have confidence in the system, and the Council of State also took responsibility for this important area. I'm glad. Nevertheless, it has been in Vang i Valdres that the municipality, together with other actors, has had to intervene now from 1 March to keep the system flowing. This does not provide particular security for users. So the seas if the council uses fine words, there's a lot of uncertainty about this area. I have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think it is right that the citizens of pig-grown areas risk waiting longer for ambulances – and that there is uncertainty about this – than people in urban areas would have to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e992	The answer to that is no. The quality requirements applicable to the ambulance service apply on a national basis. I would argue that we actually have a very good ambulance service and air ambulance service in Norway. The size has drawn up the future guidelines on how this should be done, and we will come back to the size with its follow-up. This is what we intend to do in connection with the next harvest of the budget. With regard to responsibility here, it is obvious that it is the regional undertaking that is responsible for ensuring that there are good ambulance services in accordance with the professional requirements in force, but they also have the opportunity to do so through cooperation with other actors instead of doing everything on their own. I assume that the health care company is following up this ‘care for’ responsibility, and I have no reason to believe that it does not happen in Valdres. But, as I said, because of the special situation that is there, and the assessment that is now made by the services, I will keep myself informed about how it is being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1001	I would like to thank you again for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State is following this closely. Vang i Valdres is really just an example. All of this, having now been transformed into a health business, bears the mark that there is too bad a economy in many places. It is necessary for the responsibility of the health care company to appear, while we must therefore ask that there be enough money. You can place responsibility, but you also depend on financial resources. My last follow-up question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State ensure that there will be enough funds, so that ambulances do not become balancing posts, which it can very often be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1010	I agree that the financial assumptions must be proportionate to the requirements imposed on the responsibility of the undertakings. We've had a thorough review of it. I already saw when I came into the department last autumn, that there was a need to review the economy of businesses, because there was a cost development over the year last year that was out of proportion to the budgets planned by the previous government. Therefore, the Bondevik government presented its own proposal to the Stortinget on 3 May, proposing a strengthening of the economy of enterprises both on the operating side and on the investment side. This matter is now under consideration in the Social Committee, and the Storting must decide whether it will follow the Governing Council or whether it will further strengthen the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1018	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the evening post of 18 May this year, a report from the Labour Inspectorate, showing a very extensive use of overtime by nurses at Akershu University Hospital, including: For example, up to 70 hours of overtime per week are reported. week. There is reason to believe that excessive use of overtime is a general problem in the Norwegian health system. What will the Council of State do to ensure a significant reduction in the use of overtime in Norwegian hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1027	Hospitals have seen a significant increase in the number of treated patients in recent years. Waiting times and the number of patients waiting for treatment have been significantly reduced. It has put pressure on some groups of personnel, especially groups where it is scarce, and it has also had a cost-driven effect. Extensive use of overtime has occurred not only in Akershu University Hospital HF. Regional health enterprises have been given through the hospital reform tools to coordinate the activities of the different health establishments and to dimension the activity in relation to the framework they receive. At the same time, it is the responsibility of regional health establishments to ensure that the activities of individual health establishments are carried out within the framework of the legislation. I know that regional health businesses are actively working on this, and that action is also being taken to mitigate adverse effects, such as the widespread use of overtime. Assessments are carried out both in the Health East and in other regional health establishments on which services can be established in cooperation with private providers. The situation of individual health establishments and the need for any coordination and relief measures between undertakings are assessed. Through such a governance model, regional health enterprises have good means to follow-up across previous borders. Also at the level of health enterprises, action can be taken against unlucky overtime use. At Akerhus University Hospital, new jobs have been filled to limit this problem. At the same time, I would like to stress that the activities of the regional health establishments should be adapted to the financial framework granted by the Stortinget. It is the responsibility of regional health businesses to ensure optimal use of resources and to provide the best possible patient care. I assume that supervisory authorities, inter alia: County doctors and the Labour Inspectorate, supervise the establishments and address any deviations that may occur. In the Questionnaire on 8 May, I briefed on the work of the Government's recruitment plan for health and social workers. I explained, among other things: for the main focus of the plan, which are auxiliary and caregivers and nurses. Improved recruitment and greater stability in the positions both in hospitals and in the municipal health service require the involvement of all actors responsible and competent in the service. As part of this work, we have therefore entered into cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health, the Association of Employers, NATO and regional health companies. The Ministry of Health wishes to work together with the departments and employers concerned to identify possible instruments to promote the recruitment and stability of the professions. I believe that such a joint effort and coordination between health care professionals could improve the health care situation in hospitals and in the municipalities. That is what is really at the bottom of the problem that the representative Molvik is going to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1048	I thank you for your answer. The example from Akershus, which was given in the evening post, worries me very much, not least because the extensive use of overtime is widespread in most Norwegian hospitals, as the Minister of Health also confirmed in his reply. This has many negative consequences. Firstly, the use of overtime to such an extent could be detrimental to the health of individual workers, and the sharp increase in sick leave in Acherhus suggests this. Secondly, this would have to go beyond the quality of the work to be done by these employees in relation to patients. And third, there has to be a very expensive and not appropriate way to run hospitals. Many nurses who attend part-time jobs want to work full-time, but cannot expand their jobs. Had they had the opportunity to do so, in my opinion, the need to use overtime would obviously have been reduced. What can the Minister of Health do to correct this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1059	Let me first say that I share the assessments that the representative Molvik gives of the problem of excessive overtime. All overtime is not a problem; it is a necessity to avoid peaks and critical situations. But systematic and extensive overtime should be sought to avoid, and I have explained how enterprises, including the undertaking concerned, are working on it. With regard to the question of whole and divided positions, it is my opinion that it is desirable that, both through administrative measures and through the tariff negotiations conducted by the parties, more people should choose more jobs than the many part-time positions and combinations of part-time positions on which healthcare is characterised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1066	I thank you again for the answer. It is true that in the context of overtime use there is also another development, and that is the use of temporary employment agencies in hospitals. Both to provide enough nurses and to have a so-called reserve of flexible labour, the use of such temporary employment agencies in Norwegian hospitals is increasing. I am aware that some employees choose to work in temporary employment agencies rather than to have permanent employment at hospitals, because it actually gives them better pay and employment. As I see it, this is nevertheless a very worrying development, not least in view of the stability and continuity of patient care that we need. How does the Minister of Health assess these developments? And will the Council of State take action to ensure that more people choose to have permanent employment in hospitals, as most people really want, rather than to be associated with a temporary employment agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1077	I see temporary employment agencies as a useful tool to remedy critical manning situations, including in Norwegian hospitals. But it's an expensive solution, and it's not the best solution. It is not the case in Norway today that you can enter a hospital ward as a nurse and go straight into the tasks that lie there, without experience and training just in that type of work. That's why it's quite demanding, and it's probably going to be quite challenging for those who already work in that department, that expensive temporary workers like those who work there must learn. That's why I'm following this development closely. I have asked that my employees keep themselves informed about how this development is. As far as the measures requested by the representative Molvik are concerned, they may be at a different level than administrative ones. But based on the assessments I've given here, I think there's reason to monitor how this situation develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1088	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In one of the health regions of the country, closed food departments have been planned and a recent psychiatric centre is feared to be liquidated. At the same time, we are told about uncertainty about the ambulance service, its funding and responsibilities. Under the new health legislation, all of this is the responsibility of the Minister of Health. How will he ensure that all vital functions and services are provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1097	The Representative for Lutvold addresses an important question of how vital functions are performed in regional health enterprises. The new business system is based on ownership management in relation to enterprises which ensures that resources are used in relation to priority health policy objectives. Even with a decentralised response system, the central responsibility for health policy requires that there be governance and follow-up systems that ensure the functioning of healthcare in accordance with health policy objectives and priorities. The Health Business Act establishes a system in which important matters are to be brought up to the Department for Decision-making and thus also to be politically assessed. At the same time, it is important that the resource framework is realistic in relation to the targets set. The review we have had of the resource situation of enterprises means that there are now proposals for consideration in the Stortning on additional allocations of nearly DKK 1.8 billion and in addition a loan framework for investments of DKK 1 billion. I'm not going to comment on these pages any further here, but I'm going to focus on the important role of the supervisory system, that is, the State Health and County Doctors. Their work does not compensate for the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health as owner and of the undertakings performing such activities. These institutions have an important supervisory role in complying with the requirements of the law on the provision of sound services. When the country has become the owner of the undertakings, it is particularly important that the supervisory work takes place in an autonomous and autonomous position. I regard this supervisory function as an important safety net for compliance with legal requirements and for the provision of vital functions and services. It does not in any way reduce the responsibilities of the ‘line’ from the owner to the regional health establishments and local health establishments, but it is an important complement that the supervisory authority has a continuous search light on the safety of the services. The government will strengthen this oversight function, including: by proposing amendments to the laws which provide sanctions to hospitals to supervisory authorities. Overall, overall political responsibility for the resource framework, targeted ownership management and clear responsibilities in enterprises and strong and independent supervision shall ensure overall sound health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1110	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I agree that a strong supervisory authority is important. Now, however, you have a problem with the instability here, in my opinion. When you have a state-funded healthcare system and a government-led and responsible supervisory authority, you can have a problem of instability here and a relationship with loyalty and the top employer that can be difficult. Therefore, I hope that there will be clarity in the independent role of the supervisory authority and that sanctions will also be available, for here a government authority will impose penalties for State operations. - It's got to be now. I think the deficit in the operating budgets of the health regions shows that there is no safety in the ambulance service. In the Health West, they're missing $8 million. kr to the ambulances. In the psychiatry plan, it is said that we should have an extension, among other things. of district psychiatric centres, which is now being questioned in some regions and counties. Plans have been adopted, but these have been put on ice or are in danger of being wound up, as in Health North.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1119	Let me take some of the statements that are coming here. Firstly, as regards the independence of the supervisory authorities, it is not new that the State Health Authority supervises state hospitals. They've had that before. The new thing is that they are overseeing several state hospitals. And I assure you that the State Health Authority has a free and independent role, and it will be strengthened when they are given sanction options in addition to those they have today. Secondly, in relation to the representative of Luttvold, «the deficit in the operating budgets»: yes, we have just done what we said to the Stortinget that we should do, namely, go through the operating budgets and the investment budgets and proposed to the Stortinget a significant strengthening of them. It is now in Stortingen's hands to decide whether this is sufficient. Thirdly, in the same proposition that we have promoted for the Hospital Economy, we have made it very clear that the mental health escalation plan should be followed up, including the investment plans. And we've just angled the grant proposal so that the bulk of the money is going to strengthen the base of businesses, which is the funding base of psychiatry. So if the representative Joy goes closer to the proposition I've now referred to, he'll find answers exactly to the questions he's raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1132	Nevertheless, it does not differ from the fact that NOK 2.6 billion was the deficit and the operating needs last year, and of that one covers NOK 1.7 billion. And then comes the demand for efficiency gains, savings on efficiency. We know that one is already very stressed in relation to psychiatry development, in relation to other important medical areas and not least in relation to emergency medicine. In the emergency notice and the investigation work done by Sintef, it is said that there is a need for 224 million. kr to be able to follow the intentions you have there. These funds should actually be put up to the needs of health regions now set out in order to have a reasonable coverage to ensure that emergency medical preparedness, including the ambulance service, is properly met. And that's how time counts for life to be saved. It can happen tomorrow as well as next year. I believe that some of these funds should come in now and not until next year. In addition, the Health Minister has the primary responsibility here, to refer to Jan Grund, who is one of the ideologists behind the new organization. It is clear that then the Minister of Health must also take responsibility for the granting of enough money by the Government, and not just push it over to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1141	The Minister of Health has done the same. I have made a proposition for the Storting with conclusions on what I think should be granted in order to provide companies with a sufficient financial basis for carrying out their mission. I have not pretended to Stortinget that in this case, money would be given to upgrade the emergency medical services in Stortinget's treatment of the emergency message. On the other hand, I have informed Stortinget that an investigation has been carried out, to which the representative Lutvold referred, and that we will come back to the 2003 budget as regards its follow-up. I hear what is being said here in terms of indications that the Minister of Health is not taking responsibility for the follow-up to the business economy. I believe that what I have now said shows that such suggestions fall on their own unreasonableness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1151	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Statistical acquisition of hospitals appears to be an accident for patients. For example, in Akershus, the construction of Follo Hospital is exposed for an indefinite period of time or is shrouded and Akershus University Hospital on Lørenskog is in an economic constitution that will significantly reduce treatment capacity. The Health Minister leans on health companies and allows hospitals to become clean shops regardless of patients. When will the Council of State respond to this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1160	Let me start by taking a clear distance from the premises and the claims that underlie the question, that there is now a negative development without me and the Government taking the necessary action. I would remind you that there is a very central reason for the hospital reform that regional health businesses and health businesses should be able to better use allocated resources in accordance with health policy objectives. There is no mention whatsoever of any release in relation to commercial objectives. Health and social policy objectives and performance requirements are set by the Grand Duchy and by the Government and the Ministry, and this is what businesses are being run and followed up to. I remind you that the reform has been working for five months, and that perhaps there should be some reluctance to take a final judgment, even though many have had strong views on the reform in advance. Let me repeat, that there should be no doubt: I have total responsibility for the services of companies, and there is nothing in the liability positions that are now established for the companies, which are rocking it. Although the reform is at an early stage and some systems are to be implemented, it is important that businesses also have economic assumptions that are realistic in relation to health policy objectives at the start-up stage. There is a background for a full review of the economic situation of enterprises, a review on the basis of the Storting proposal for an additional allocation of nearly DKK 1.8 billion plus a loan framework of DKK 1 billion. The fact that the Government put the resource issue on the agenda in the autumn of 2001, that the business economy has now been reviewed and that the proposal for additional appropriations is available is an active follow-up to the objective that businesses must have a framework that is adapted to the objectives of health policy. In addition, the Government’s proposal provides clear guidance for prioritising treatment provision to vulnerable groups, including drug users. people with mental disorders, and clear leadership towards a more decentralised specialist health service closer to the patient has been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1173	Let me stay a little bit at Follo Hospital. The councils could have chosen to assume that Health East would take Follo hospitals as the starting point, and that it would be built. I find it incomprehensible that the Health Minister has chosen to reset Follo hospitals, not least because it was intended to play an important role in psychiatry. As the Minister of Health well knows, there is a great deal of under-cover in the area of mental health in Akershus, and especially in Follo. How does the Minister of Health think that the psychiatric offer in Follo should be covered when, through the priorities set in relation to Health East, he has chosen to ice Follo hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1180	Let me correct the presentation that the representative Haga now gives of this matter. First of all, at the Central Hospital in Akershus, now called Ahus, there is an extensive pre-projection for the development of a completely new hospital. The Ministry has recently given professional approval to the main function programme. We are now awaiting the outcome of the pre-project and the question of eligibility for start-up will arise in the context of the 2003 budgetary procedure. That case is a full click on it. In the case of Follo hospitals, the regional health company, which is now responsible for the hospital provision both in Akershus and in the other Eastern counties, has chosen to see the development of Follo hospitals and the development of hospital services in Østfold in the context before moving on to the plan work in which the county municipalities on both sides of the county border have put down excellent preparatory work. And I actually think that those who are responsible for both expanding the services and operating them will have the opportunity. I must respect the positions of responsibility established by the Storting through the Business Act. That doesn't mean I don't want to take responsibility for developing services for the population both in Follo and in Eastfold and in the rest of Akershus. I will take that responsibility, but it has to be anchored in the regional enterprise that actually has to build and operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1187	Yeah, that's okay, that the plans should be anchored. But the point is that here there was a thorough work done by the county council and the county politicians, and it could have been chosen to take as a starting point instead of letting Health East start at zero. But a slightly different aspect of my question is: When hospitals are run as stores, will patients be judged whether they are profitable or not? Older people who often have a number of diseases at the same time become poor shops in the system that are established. My question to the Minister of Health will then be: how will he ensure that older people are fully treated in the established hospital market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1196	Now I'm not going to prejudge my answer to the next question in this questionnaire, such as. is used by elderly patients. But again, I have to say that the claims are quite loose with the representative Haga. The fact that the hospitals are run as a clean shop, where did Haga come from? Hospitals are operated on the basis of a statutory responsibility to provide sound health care to the population of the region. It's not about profit-based business. The fact that we have a funding system that rewards treating as many patients as possible is not an expression of profit! It's an expression that it's actually going to be that hospitals are going to be premiered to get away from the queues, and not as it was before, where they were actually rewarded when they had long enough cows. I will, like the representative Haga, be on guard against all aspects of development that can move towards a more commercialised health care system. But as a characteristic of the hospital service we have today, the representative Hagas's wording is very poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1208	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In Rome’s magazine of 3 May, Professor of Medicine Jan Eriksen asserts: ‘Illness, old patients with many disorders are sent home from Norwegian hospitals without getting help because they are too expensive to treat.’ Eriksen reasons this by saying that health business boards are only concerned with money. In addition, geriatric teams for old patients are at risk of closure for resource reasons. What will the Council of State do to counteract this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1217	In my previous period as a health minister, I had the pleasure of providing a big message about health care values. For me, it was important in this way to highlight the values on which healthcare should be based. I am concerned that public health services should be based on a fundamental respect for the individual and that healthcare should realise ideals of equal access for the population to important health services, irrespective of residence, economic and social conditions. With this background, it would be very serious for me if it were like the premise for the question suggests: patients are sent home because they are too expensive to deal with the management only of money important measures for elderly patients are at risk of being abandoned. Let me say that the healthcare that Stortinget has adopted is not going to be that way. I believe that what is referred to here is also not a proper general description of the situation. Enterprises’ mission is to provide good health care in accordance with the objectives and priorities set by overall policy bodies. There is no doubt that the new business system is based on health policy objectives and that there is no adequate provision whatsoever for a system dedicated only to money. The setting of a framework for resource use is part of the overall governance of public resource use, which, of course, does not have to be interpreted in such a way that only the economy is now set up. I also add that conscious and efficient use of resources does not have to be made up of anti-patient measures — on the contrary, effective use of resources can increase access to healthcare. And some of the patients who respond when they're in hospitals are often poor organization and use of resources. Of course, there is a link between the economy of enterprises and the healthcare that can be provided. I have already referred in several answers in this Question Time to the review carried out by the Government, and to the proposals under consideration in the Grand Duchy. It is now in Stortingen's hands to decide what is going to happen in relation to it. The five regional health establishments, whose primary task is to provide the regions with the necessary health care, have six overall objectives: to promote public health in order to combat disease, injury, suffering and disability. They shall contribute to ensuring quality of service, an equivalent offer, good use of resources, a service offer tailored to patients’ needs and a service offer available to patients. The provision of a number of patient groups would neither be appropriate nor appropriate without direct cooperation with primary health services. The cooperation with the municipalities I think is one of the most central in the case of geriatric patients, and that is something that we closely follow up with the enterprises. It is an objective that patients should experience as much as possible the provision of treatment as a whole, not as a fragmented system, because responsibility is based on different institutions and at different levels. In the law, this ratio is taken up in several places, among others. in the case of requirements for an individual plan for patients with complex and long-term needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1242	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I am also pleased that he underlines the values underlying our health care system. In the case of my own home country – Health West, Health Bergen and Haukeland hospitals – the resource situation actually forces health care companies to make large cuts in the current year. In Haukeland Hospital, we are talking this year – even with the additions that have been announced – about a cut of 150 million. kr. At the same time, we know that there are plans at Haukeland Hospital in Bergen for a battlefield and for rehabilitation, but these are not funds for investment, and they are not funds for operation. And the idea of building further – and better – offers, for example. within geriatry at Haukeland Hospital, one can only look long after. Does the Minister of Health think that it is important that older people, with complex disorders too, can receive an optimal treatment offer in the sense that they are adequately investigated so that they can be followed up both in hospitals and by the community health service at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1251	I have never tried to create the impression that a state acquisition of the specialist health service would solve all the problems in the hospitals, problems that are well known over many years. On the contrary, I have been criticized for being too modest in my ambitions in relation to what the reform would accomplish in the next two years. But I believe that the reform will provide a basis for addressing the main challenges both in terms of investment and operation, not least when we get the new system of investment in hospitals in place from next year. It has been the assumption that it will come from 2003. I'd like to say to the representative of the Skjälaa that yes, that's important. It is particularly important that the weakest groups of patients, including those who are ill, are given priority and benefit from a comprehensive healthcare system. It is important for me, as Minister of Health, to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1258	I also thank you for that answer and hear the good intentions. But the situation in hospitals is not, in fact, such that hospitals and health businesses can give priority to this group, because the emergency function, etc. requires a lot. I would like to challenge the Minister of Health and ask if he intends to set up a hospital for this type of patient who requires a lower level of purely treatment, but who needs treatment, so-called a semi-intermediate service – for the hospitals, it is not possible to treat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1265	I just want to say that a large part of the immediate help function in the hospitals is about this particular group of people, so that putting immediate help up for the treatment of the elderly is not going to be right. But I'm actually concerned that we can get more of these half-way services. We are taking some action in the hospital proposal that the Government made on 3 May in relation to the treatment of cell poison patients and dialysis patients, and we have appointed a sample – which will work over this year and deliver its stop at the end of the year – to look at the financing of hospital services. The sample has just been asked to look at the financing of the two-way service, which is to provide a basis for the type of services requested by the representative of the Kellerlaa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1275	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Council of State announced on 22 May a review of the geographical breakdown of financial resources of health enterprises. Will he also initiate a review to secure users and communicate dialogue with the enterprises?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1284	There are two important issues to be addressed: the dialogue between users and municipalities with enterprises. For both groups, there are strong arguments for their involvement in dialogue with health businesses. It has therefore been important for me to facilitate participation and dialogue in the systems that are now being developed for businesses. So the short answer to both representatives of Meltveit Kleppa's question is: Yes, I have, and I want to do it. But let me elaborate it a little bit. For users, the Health Business Act requires that users and their organisations be influenced and involved in dialogues. In my view, this has been followed up with regard to regional health enterprises requiring the establishment of user selections, and also with the requirement to ensure that health businesses maintain dialogue and participation in relation to users and their organisations. There are now established user selections, I have been informed, in all five regional health companies. For my part, I have good experience with user selections from other contexts, and I therefore consider this a very important measure to have good and systematic contact with users and their organisations. As regards the municipal sector, I point out that in the proposal for a health company law, it was proposed that all regional health companies should set up Council bodies, such as: was intended to support the desired contact with regional and local political bodies. As you know, this was not adopted during the Grand Duchy's treatment of the law. In view of the fact that this solution was not relevant, the Ministry of Health has continued to work on other approaches that can facilitate good dialogue with municipalities and municipalities. There has also been dialogue between the Ministry and the regional undertakings on this subject. As a result of this process, a letter from the Ministry of Health issued on 2 May this year clarifying that all five regional health establishments will be in contact with regional and political bodies. On the other hand, such work is already in progress. As a result, development processes are in progress to ensure that enterprises have the necessary dialogue with municipalities and county councils. I think this is important. Municipalities and county councils have an important ombudsman role on behalf of the population in their areas. In addition, both the municipalities and, in particular, the county authorities have a responsibility for social planning which implies that there must be good venues for dialogue and contact with such an important community service as the healthcare and hospital services are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1295	There is – rightly – concern in many user organisations and thus among many patients in relation to the lack of dialogue. Let me give you one example: the Rogaland Rev Mathematicians Association had before a good dialogue with the County Health Board. They got told about their needs, and their positive experiences, for example. with the Revmatism Hospital in Haugesund, was important for the elections in Rogaland took. Where should they now go to influence, for example: where the necessary maintenance of the buildings of a hospital which is very special but which has a very important function in relation to a large group of chronically ill people is involved? It is good and good to give information to the management board to consult the users. Does the Council of State mean that it replaces the elected bodies that were previously responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1302	The size has adopted a new management model for the hospitals, and of course it is my responsibility to implement it. I believe that, in terms of user involvement, the new business system should not in any way stand behind the user contact that must have been there before the reform came into force. The fact that enterprises have now needed time to consolidate, to set up and set up these schemes for a few months is not an indication of a lack of priority. From my side, it's a deep commitment because I think hospitals are getting better if these user samples, systematic user contacts and user studies work well. I'll make sure that happens. I'm quite clear that the popular government of the health sector has moved into this room for hospitals. But in addition to that, there should be a good user dialogue, and there should be a good dialogue with elected local bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1309	It is good that the Council of State expresses its commitment. For my part, I would like to stress the anxiety I feel about the chroniclers, and would ask him to follow up. In this way, I am not satisfied with the answers that the Minister for Health has so far given to several other questions in this Question Time, because he seems to be satisfied with the funds that he has now allocated to entrepreneurs. It's a fact, of course, that here some people are telling us about cuts in existing supply. There is even greater cause for concern when it comes to the chroniclers, because they are often the ones who come to the rear. I'd like to ask the government council to show commitment not only in words, but also in action, and then he has to do far more than he's done at this time to figure out how the chroniclers now experience the actual situation in relation to the corporations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1314	I hear the representative Meltveit Kleppa believes that I don't know enough about the chroniclers' everyday life, and she can. I think it's hard to really get into it, without having been there or being very close to such people in everyday life. So that's what I'm going to remember. But when it is made so that as Minister of Health I am very satisfied with the means the hospitals are given for the current year, the answer is that I am not. That is why I have put forward proposals for substantial additional appropriations, and of course I am behind the proposal that I have presented to the Stortinget. And then it's the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and her colleagues in Stortinget who will decide if this is good enough, and I seem to record that you think it's not. We'll get back to that in another case in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1321	Now we go to the 18 and 19 questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1329	‘The traditional way of living of the Gypsy includes extensive travel activities. Cigarettes are still available in Norway, which travels in the summer half of the year. In this group, there are children who don't go to school. Probably we're talking about between 30 and 70 children. They need training to enable them to participate in society. What will the Council of State do to ensure that gypsy children in Norway are trained, and how will she proceed to achieve this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1336	All children living in Norway have a right and an obligation to primary education. The right to primary education occurs when the child is likely to be in Norway for more than three months. Primary school education begins when the stay has lasted for three months. If the parent or the person responsible for the child is intentionally or negligently responsible for the child’s absence from training, he or she may be punished by fines. It is the State Education Office in each State that supervises the compliance of the municipality with the Training Act, including the right and duty of children to training. However, the school system in Norway is not sufficiently adapted to families with extensive travel activities. St.meld. No 15 for 2000–2001, national minorities in Norway, have been treated in the United Kingdom. In the light of this Communication, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has set up a coordination committee for national minorities, including: The Ministry of Education and Research is represented. During the autumn, the Committee shall submit proposals for several concrete actions to national minorities, including school measures to the Roma and Roma population. I want to make sure that this coordination committee addresses the issue of the representative of Apelthun Säle. In addition, I can inform you that one of the concrete actions mentioned in the Annual Report on National Minorities in Norway is to assess whether ICT, in combination with school-supported contact networks in relevant areas, can be adapted to the training needs of the Roma and Roma population, who are travelling part of the year. When the selection setting is available, this will be carefully assessed, inter alia. in the Ministry of Education and Research. Both the assessment and the implementation of any action must take place in close cooperation with the Roma and Roma people themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1353	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. I have had conversations with people who have said that they have never gone to school, that they cannot read and write, and that they have had great difficulties in life, not least to hide their disability. Most of these were well-grown human beings, and so this is a result of past sins. It is alarming, I think, that in 2002 too there are children falling outside, with the problems it will bring. We know the responsibilities of parents, but ultimately it's society's responsibility to teach these children. The Roma and Roman people are often traveling outside Norway too. Can the Minister of Education envisage Nordic cooperation on controlled home education for these children, possibly with travelling teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1362	I agree with the representative of Apelthun Seele that this is important. We know that education and knowledge are important to everyone, and these children, who are innocent, can later in life discover it. Then it might feel too late. These too, of course, have requirements for adapted training. We have to say that it is more demanding to provide this group with adapted training than many other groups. But on the other hand, this is a fairly small group, as it emerges from the question that has been asked. I also believe that today we have opportunities for more flexible forms of training, which should enable us to develop the imagination and creativity that is needed to provide a good offer. The idea of bringing this up in Nordic cooperation I will take with me. I am not going to meet my Nordic colleagues for a long time, and I am already going to deal informally with the question of whether this is something we could look into in the Nordic context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1371	I'm very pleased with that answer. It is quite clear that the case is demanding, but it is also limited in scope. Flexibility is what we need to invest in. Now it is that new technologies often provide new opportunities – the Council of State said a little about it. Although Gypsies live in a traditional way, technology has also reached this society to some extent. I am pleased that the Council of State believes – as I believe – that it is possible to reach children and young people via the Internet and to provide adequate training. There is also a good tool for basic education, which could lift children out of the knowledge gap. This was certainly more a comment than a question, but I thought a must use the full width to achieve the flexibility needed to reach these children, so that we don't get grown up without basic knowledge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1380	I'm taking these advice and these ideas with me, and maybe I can just add that these are not the only children who are traveling parts of the time they go to school. Many children of disfellowshipped parents, e.g. use information and communication technologies to keep in touch with Norwegian training activities. I take these ideas with me and will come back to this in the light of the selection setting that I mentioned in my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1390	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education: ‘I refer to headlines in the newspaper ‘Education’ of 12 May 2002 on the ‘Everyday light for school leaders’ course, where it appears that school staff are not entitled to make seizures of, among others. dangerous objects from pupils. This restriction represents a major challenge in relation to the provisions of the Training Act on Rules of Procedure, and not least in relation to the practical problems of order faced by employees in today's school. What will the Council of State do to remedy this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1399	Let me first say that the school has a duty to provide a safe environment and a good learning environment for the students. In order to follow up this obligation, I believe it is important that schools have internal rules of procedure. This Regulation should be clear and clear, not to be misunderstood, drawn up in cooperation with students and parents, teachers and school leaders and enforced when it is broken. Everyone in school, teachers, students and parents, needs to know what is acceptable behavior. The Rules of Procedure may vary over time and between schools, but must, of course, be defined within the framework of the Training Act and the rules applicable in general in Norwegian society. For example, there are rules of procedure. list items that are not allowed to be carried or used at school, such as: mobile phones, weapons or, for that matter, candy shops, and explain the penalties/reactions that will accompany a breach of the rules. Whatever the rules, I think it is clear that everyone has the right, and the duty, to prevent criminal offences. However, the instruments used must be proportionate to the gravity of the criminal offence and directed at the perpetrator and, in school context, not normally directed towards the whole class or school. I therefore do not agree with the claims made in the magazine ‘Education’. I would like to add, I believe, that the staff of the school can intervene and remove visible or easily accessible weapons or other dangerous items from the students. Where there are more vague suspicions, e.g. What students may be involved must be left to the police, as elsewhere in society, to investigate and confiscate. I have registered that there is uncertainty in the school about these questions. I have therefore started working on a separate circular that will make this clearer, clarifying the conditions I have mentioned above and that may be in use from school start-up in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1410	I thank you for your answer. We can quickly agree on what is ‘sound reason’, but it obviously reinforces actions based on common sense if the jus is also on the side of reason. I am therefore glad that at least we can get some sort of cleaning through a circular. But if it's all about the same point of view, it still leaves an unexplained situation in relation to the juxe specifically. In my opinion, a clean-up should be carried out which also clarifies and covers what is legally possible, so that if situations arise in which it is put at the head, it should be clarified for all school staff, both school managers and teachers, in such a way that they feel on a safe legal basis if they consider that there is a basis for sequestration, irrespective of the object. It is also an independent point that the instrument to be used by teachers should be legally clear, so that in their role model they do not actually act contrary to or on the edge of the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1417	Now I believe that the answer I gave instead is also consistent with the law. I'm aware that there may be lawyers who might think otherwise, but we're probably not completely familiar with the phenomenon that lawyers can have different opinions. I therefore believe that I gave an answer that was not only sane, but also enshrined in law and regulation, and which can and should be enshrined in a school regulations. Sun sense came almost at the top of the juxtaposition. I also agree with Mr Sortevik that if, in the work on this circular, we find that it is difficult to provide clear guidelines on what kind of school regulations you can have in very important areas – one must say that this with weapons is very important – we should, if necessary, also take the legislative initiative. But our interpretation is that the way the law is now, the way the training law is, and the way you have the opportunity to design the school regulations, you are on a secure legal basis if you do what I say, so intervene and remove ‘visible or easily accessible weapons or other dangerous objects from the students’. Going to unaddressed research is probably different, but I don't think that's the issues the teachers and schools have addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1424	Finally, will the design of the circular also cooperate with the Department of the Law Department of the Ministry of Justice, in order to make every effort to clarify any ambiguities related to the legal basis for seizures? I want to remind you that we are talking about quite different types of objects – mobile phones can be of the relatively unproblematic ones. As we move along an axis further towards weapons – knives and percussion weapons – we are inside a completely different and far more serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1429	We now have lawyers in the Department of Education and Research, too, but it is a relatively normal procedure that if you move into areas of law, there is also a contact with the Department of Law. I don't know exactly the procedures for how to do it when drafting a circular, but I'm taking this advice with me, and I'm going to make sure that what we're sending out is a patent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1434	We then go back to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1440	I would like to ask the Minister for Development a question: ‘The fight against poverty is an expressed priority area for Norwegian development policy and for the World Bank’s PRSP programmes [[Strategic document on poverty reduction]] Will the Government work to ensure that poverty reduction is given the main priority through the use of all tools within the World Bank and the IMF?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1449	Let me first make it clear that the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the PRSP, was launched as a joint initiative of the World Bank and the Monetary Fund, the IMF, in 1999. This marked the beginning of a more comprehensive approach by the two institutions to poverty reduction, integrating monetary, fiscal, structural and social factors, so as to maximise the poverty reduction effect. An important principle is that countries themselves should have ownership of their PRSP. The design of the strategy is based on the developing countries’ own priorities, which the World Bank and the IMF then support. To support the implementation of the PRSP, two lending instruments have been launched, the World Bank's Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit, PRSC, and the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, PRGF, respectively. Thus, the two loan instruments PRSC and PRGF, which were also in the presence of the representative, do not override the PRSP in each country. Both are based on the priorities expressed by developing countries themselves through their PRSP. In principle, the primary objective of these instruments is not to promote economic liberalisation and deregulation. Whether this is the case depends on the situation in each country and their PRSP. In this case, it will take place within a framework within which national institutions are able to ensure that the social dimension, which the representative is also involved in, is safeguarded. We are very conscious of the link between the macroeconomic effects of the measures prescribed by the PRSPs and their social consequences. Analysis is therefore carried out both in advance, while action is being taken and subsequently taken to ensure that they actually give a positive count to the poor. The World Bank and the IMF are developing an approach to Social Impact Analysis, as it is called, to support the national PRSP process and to ensure a better basis for policy decisions and the order of reforms and actions. However, it is important that this work is anchored in and implemented by the countries themselves. Many developing countries have major capacity problems in carrying out such analyses. Therefore, we must ensure that national capacity is strengthened. From the Norwegian side, we follow this work very closely. According to the Government's Action Plan on poverty reduction, we will contribute to the priority of the fight against poverty in the work of the World Bank and the IMF. In general, Norway will continue to work actively to ensure that the PRSP approach ensures as much as possible a country-wide – i.e. national ownership – effective and poverty-reducing development, and not least that the World Bank and the IMF, as well as other development actors, should base these objectives on their commitment to countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1462	I thank you for your answer. I think it is good for the Council of State to give a clear response to priorities. Now it is no surprise that there will be different assessments of the kind of policies that promote development and of the kind of policies that promote a fair form of development – probably also between the Council of State and me and between the different environments involved in the policies of the World Bank and the IMF. However, I am interested in challenging the Council of State on this, because we have seen many accusations in relation to the World Bank that have been made about such a contradiction, between a policy that promotes the liberalisation of the economy and a policy for combating poverty. Does the Council of State see that it can be the kind of contradiction, and is it the areas in which she wants to intervene in order to give poverty reduction an active priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1472	I first want to give the representative an honor to put this question in focus. It is very important that the Storting also engages. Although it may be technically complicated, it is nevertheless important for billions of people. Of course, we have poverty reduction as our main priority. As the representative is aware, there may be slightly different assessments of what is best considered to lead to the objective. What's our main goal is that there shouldn't be one recipe that's going down the heads of every country. On the contrary, one must turn it around and say that countries themselves should develop a strategy — the national poverty reduction strategy — which will then form the basis for both the assessment of macro-economic measures and the assessment of social and structural measures. Here's Norway on the track. Of course, we are not entirely in line with the policies of the IMF and the World Bank. Every year, Norway has been fighting for the most poverty-oriented policy possible. In my opinion, the World Bank has now come very far. We are concerned that the IMF should come as far as possible, and then operate through a policy that, as we understand, is completely poverty-reducing in each country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1479	I thank you again for the answer. I could finally imagine asking the Council of State a little additional question about what she sees the Government can do to come up with those who are now criticizing the World Bank's policy, meeting, and what kind of action the Government can take to capture that kind of criticism. If the Government is to meet the objectives set by the Minister of Development here, an active apparatus is needed to capture any potential contradictions of interest. So what kind of thoughts do you have about the follow-up of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1486	In my opinion, a good part of the criticism that has been in recent years is primarily legitimate in relation to the policy pursued by the World Bank in the 1980s, and partly in the early 1990s, i.e. the old structural adjustment programmes. It has, among other things, This is reflected in an analysis that Norway has been involved in funding, the SAPRI analysis, which reflects the criticism that the representative has expressed. In my opinion, and according to Norwegian assessment, the Bank has changed its policies in a number of areas and takes care of in a different way to what was previously the case, the main consideration of poverty reduction in individual countries. It will always be the case that there may be a basis for analysing whether or not a measure has been taken, whether or not the correct dosage has been selected, and whether or not one has always been equally targeted, and we will have a good analysis of that at all times. This is the background to the Social Impact Analysis instrument that is now being implemented, to review macroeconomic policies and to review their social impact, as well as the policies of both the World Bank and the IMF, precisely to see how this can be better achieved in the next round. So here we are in a process that, in my opinion, provides a very good basis for caring for some of the critical approaches that many people have come with. But I would like to stress that I feel that part of the criticism is more directed to the bank ten years ago than the bank we know today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1497	‘The natural pearl Gevilvatnet has suffered significant damage as a result of watercourse regulation. In 1997 the municipality of Oppdal asked for a revision of the operating regulations, without the NVE having taken this into account. The county therefore followed up in 2001 with a requirement for revision, a requirement that has not yet been addressed by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Does the Council of State consider that the treatment period for such cases is satisfactory and does the Council of State consider that the current legislation works well enough in relation to such natural damage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1504	The question from the representative Vaggen Malvik relates to a complaint from the Sørde-Trøndelag county council regarding the refusal of the NVE to reconsider the operating regulations for Driva power plants. The operating rules shall concern, inter alia, the following: Offered in Oppdal municipality. The county council had demanded that the NVE amend the operating regulations in order to ensure better filling of the water supply in the spring. The Directorate of Nature Management promoted a similar enquiry on behalf of the Environment Group of the Gevilvatnet, Oppdal Municipality and County Council of the South Trøndelag where the NVE was asked to assess the adverse effects of the regulation of the Gevilvatnet. The NVE gave its assessment of the case on 12 May 2000. The NVE concluded that the adverse effects resulting from the regulation were not greater than expected when the concession was granted and that all material damage that has occurred was assessed during the concession treatment. Because the county council in its letter asked for the NVE's assessment of the case, no formal decision was taken that could be appealed against. On a later occasion, the NVE drew attention to the fact that it was possible to require that the conditions be changed in accordance with its own change provisions of the operating rules. Therefore, in October, the South Trøndelag County Authority requested that the operating regulations be amended, with the same justification. NVE rejected the requirement for conversion. The complaint from the county council was sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy by letter of 19 December last year, and a decision on the matter can be expected in the near future. In view of the fact that it was only in October last autumn that there was a formal requirement to start an audit case, I cannot see that a dry six-month period is an unsatisfactory procedure. Both the NVE and the Department have needed to get into the matter thoroughly and have, among other things, obtained opinions from the Ministry of the Environment and the regulator. In addition, in this case, we have waited for work to be done between the regulator and the municipalities concerned with a view to finding agreed solutions to improve the flooding of the Givvilvatnet. After I have been informed, this work is in the final phase, and the regulator aims to send an application for a change to the operating rules before the holiday. With regard to Vaggen Malvik's other questions, I am of the opinion that we have a code that is good enough to capture any accidental natural damage or damage that is of such a scale that it has not been possible to predict them at the time of the concession. I refer here to the general ‘emergency’ provision contained in the Manoeuvring Regulation, but also to the statutory access to audit of previously granted regulatory concessions. In conclusion, and on a general basis, I would say that the take-up of such matters as this is very large. While the regulatory framework is adequate, longer processing time than may be desirable in some cases may be necessary for the purposes of procedural capacity. For reasons explained, I still believe this is not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1528	First, I would like to thank you for your answer. I would argue that this is a rather special matter. And when the Council of State argues in its response that the NVE considered the damage that the Grant Water received, as already assessed in the concession treatment, and also points out with the importance of a formal application for a change to the Manoeuvring Regulation, I think it is a little strange. Oppdal City Council adopted a unanimous decision as early as November 1997, asking for a change in the operating regulations as a consequence of the damage caused to the Salvage Water. And then I think it's a little strange that the NVE did not see the application for the change as a formal enquiry when it came from Oppdal municipality. That's what I think with respect to reporting is a little strange. Otherwise, I would like to point out that when it comes to the use of the emergency paragraph – notice the term ‘emergency paragraph’ – it must mean that you have to have a quick treatment if it is to have a function. And if you're going to let this out for years -- we're writing now in 2002, and the first time this case showed up, it was in 1997 -- then you can hardly call it an emergency paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1539	First of all, let me say that, as a complaint authority, the Ministry has to deal with the appeal periods granted, and the complaint has to be filed on a formal basis. I consider this matter to be an important environmental issue. I see the environmental aspect related to the regulation of Givvilvatnet and actually have a considerable hope that the regulator, together with the municipalities and county councils concerned, will come up with an amicable scheme. I mentioned that in my answer, but I also think that the questioner, who is concerned about the environmental aspect of this matter, should be satisfied that in this case the department will give itself the time to go through all the aspects of the matter. It reflects the seriousness and the thoroughness that I believe this important matter deserves. I hope we can deliver an answer quite quickly. I have also mentioned that, but above all, I hope that there will be an agreement between the regulator and the relevant stakeholder organisations that will resolve this issue satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1548	In a letter from the municipality of Oppdal of 22 March, it appears that voluntary solutions will no longer be sufficient, and doubts are expressed that the necessary measures can be agreed with the regulator. Oppdal Municipality wants to change the control height to a maximum of 10–11 meters, and that you have to find a solution that is satisfactory for Oppdal Municipality. Then my question is very specific to the Council of State: Do you want to follow these signals from the municipality of Oppdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1553	I do not want to prejudge the treatment that the department is about to carry out. As I said, I hope that there can be a sensible and sufficiently environmentally friendly solution, a natural solution, linked to the dialogue between the regulator, the power plant, and the municipalities concerned. Based on the solution you arrive at, and the application that such a solution may subsequently lead to, I will take a position on this. However, on an independent basis, the Ministry will deal with this complaint and, of course, also in its work, it will take care of the important environmental concerns associated with the Water of Grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1563	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘According to the Sem declaration, the use of mini-power plants shall be increased. At the same time, a project is rejected for the construction of a mini-power plant in the Inner Sage River. The project is supported by local environmental authorities. The government's reason for its refusal was that the project had previously been rejected by the previous government. We had hoped that old stuff of thought would be thrown out when the Bondevik II government took over the department. Will the Council of State bring up its fresh costs, read the Sem statement and review the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1572	As the representative of Vaksdal points out, the Sem Declaration states that the use of mini-power plants should be increased. This does not mean, however, that such an authorisation is to be granted without exception for the development of power plants. An environmental assessment of the project must also be carried out in these cases. In the case referred to in the question, permission has been given to the mini-power plant itself in the Inner Sage Watercourse and to the regulation of a neighbouring water. On the other hand, no permission has been granted to regulate the Kroquat. Attention has been paid to the fact that this area has an untouched character and is a wetland area that is a shelter and nesting area for ducks, peacocks and large loams. As long as permits for the construction of mini-power plants are not applied for in a protected watercourse, such applications are very rarely rejected. The ministry has therefore gone through all the arguments in this case in full width twice. It is not possible to avoid the fact that regulation of Krokvatnet would cause such damage and disadvantages to the general interest that it does not exceed the benefits of regulating that water. When the respondent asked the department to look at the matter for the third time, I therefore did not find a basis for reconsidering the case, as no new arguments had been found in the case. So in this particular case, the consideration of the environment must therefore count more than the development interests. This is also well in line with the objective of the Sem Declaration. I can also confirm that it has been discarded from the offices of the department. There are fresh costs in place. The Council of State has read the Sem declaration, and the matter has been re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1583	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I really found disappointing in the light of what is stated in the Sem Declaration. It says on page 17: ‘Co-operation management believes that the potential for future hydropower deployments in relation to the value of securing the remaining natural areas means that the epoch of large hydropower deployments is over. In view of the natural experiences of future generations, there is a restrictive attitude towards further watercourse development and that we leave the vast majority of the watercourses that remain untouched. On this basis, the cooperative organisation will carry out a review of the protection against watercourses. The existing hydropower structure needs to be better exploited and the use of mini-power plants increased.» We all agree that the development of mini-power plants alone will not solve the problems of a huge deficit in the domestic power balance. However, mini-power plants will still contribute positively, and mini-power plants will also remedy the serious power situation we sometimes have. In addition, those engaged in rural activities are now encouraged to find additional incomes and new economic pathways in addition to farming. In this place, there has also been a previous power plant without the major problems. On this basis, will the Council of State review the matter, so that the beautiful words in the Sem declaration are now converted into action?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1595	I think it was good that the representative, Vaksdal, took the time to quote so fully from the Sem-Declaration. It was beautifully read, and the content is basically sufficient to justify the response of the Council of State. It is important to use the remaining reserves of hydropower in relation to the construction of both mini- and micro-power plants and to upgrade existing hydropower plants. But consideration for future generations also calls for caution to intervene in the unspoiled nature. In this case, we are talking about sheltered watercourses. Mini-power plants are generally approved in the department without any special problems when they are built in unprotected watercourses. In this case, there is talk of a protected watercourse, and the question of whether I would like to review this again is therefore self-evident. I won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1600	I thank the Council again for the answer. One of the reasons why this expansion was rejected was that the large locomotive was to limp in this area, as the Council of State said in its first answer. According to the information I have from local people, however, the great locomotive has not been seen in the area for several years, but it seemed to thrive well in the area the time it was driven there. So this rationale obviously doesn't hold water. In a speech on 12 December last year, Secretary of State Brit Skelbread said about future energy carriers: ‘We are also concerned that the existing hydropower structure needs to be better upgraded and exploited and the use of mini-power plants increased. It may be appropriate to initiate a separate work to explore this potential.’» My questions will therefore be: Is this work going on? When will a few see the results of this work, and what incentives do you want to use to advance the development of mini-power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1619	I am very pleased that I can cooperate with the representative of the Vaksdal and the Progress Party and others in Stortinget who have to be concerned with mini- and micro-power plants. Although they contribute less to improving the power balance, they are individually important. That's where I think we can cooperate, because there's a potential. I can confirm that the department is looking at this, and that it has taken initiative. I want to come back to Stortinget more specifically with regard to the instruments, but I also mentioned on an earlier occasion that the concession limits applicable to part of the power plants, which require a final decision in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, might have been decided on a lower level if there are no conflicts associated with such expansion. It will in a way reduce red tape, shorten treatment time and otherwise give a positive signal to those with such plans that this welcomes and welcomes the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1636	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1643	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘The Christian People’s Party is concerned with good child rearing conditions, a family policy that takes into account all types of families, and gender equality. On the basis of this, the Co-operation Board has a broad-based family policy as an important field of action. The co-operation administration has promised to grant fathers the independent right of access to and increase the scope of the paper issue. How will the State Council follow up the Sem declaration at this point?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1652	It's true, as the representative Arne Lyngstad says, that the Cooperation Government will grant fathers independent access to the paper commission and increase its scope. It is also true that both the Christian People's Party and the Cooperative Government have family policies as an important area of activity, and that we want to pursue a family policy that helps to strengthen equality in society and give men and women real opportunities to participate equally in working life, in organisational life and in family life. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs is currently reviewing the birth grant scheme with a view to simplification and improvement, and I intend to present a consultation note with amendments during the year. This will include, inter alia: be proposed to strengthen the rights of fathers. Under the rules in force, the father’s birth allowance under the parental quota is calculated in relation to his mother’s position before birth. This, I think, is a bad solution, and I therefore want to change the legislation on this point. I am concerned that fathers should take a greater part in caring for their children while they are young. This is important not only from a gender perspective but also in the interests of children. The parental quota, with its element of loving pressure, has proved to be an effective tool to get the fathers on the track. As for the promise to increase the amount of the parental allowance, I think it's going to happen in terms of an extension of the social benefit period at birth and adoption. I think this will be a better and less conflict-making solution for the families than that father will take part of Mother's leave. But it'll also be an economic question. Both an extension of the benefit period and an improvement in the calculation rules for birth allowances under the spring quota will cost money. It is an important goal for the Government to achieve full child care coverage, and child care is given the highest priority in the Sem Declaration. The consequence of this may be that the changes in the maternity allowance scheme will be applied first at the back of the large nursery bet. However, I hope that we can start with the first steps by the end of the pouring period. I'll do what I can to get a better birth grant scheme with enhanced rights for fathers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1663	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I feel a positive interest at the Council of State in improving the system of paper burning. I think that is an important measure, mainly for three reasons. First, because it contributes to increased time between father and child. Secondly, because it increases the involvement of fathers in the growth of children, even when the child becomes larger than the infant stage, and thirdly, it leads to better sharing of care work between father and mother, thus increasing equality at home. In the Christian People's Party, we see this measure as a very important family policy measure. I have clear expectations that the government will follow up the Sem declaration on that point. The Equality Ombudsman has just sent a letter to the political parties, where she says she wants to expand the birth rate within today's maternity leave. I think it would be better to increase the birth rate by extending the maternity leave by new six weeks, so that the father's quota will add up to ten weeks. The Council of State said that this was an economic issue. But it's also a matter of having the will and the ability to give priority. Does the Council agree that such an extension is desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1670	As I said in my answer, I agree with the representative Lyngstad that it is better to extend the maternity leave so that Dad chooses to take more leave – that is, an extension of the papacy leave – does not go beyond Mother's leave. I would say it so that getting a right at the expense of mother, might be difficult in this case. We have looked at the proposal of the Equality Ombudsman a little bit, and as far as I have been given the opportunity to look at it, it seems that there may be some problems both in relation to the current calculation rules for the feather quota, and perhaps also – another important element – in relation to the current exemption rules, because they are being very strictly enforced today. The consequence is that the family can actually risk losing three months instead, as today, one month. There are some issues that we really have to go deep into, and of course we have to. There has been a serious proposal, but I agree with the representative that it is better what he proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1677	It is good to hear that the Council of State agrees with me and the Christian People's Party in it. Another issue to which fathers are also linked is that of independent rights for fathers to the father quota. Sweden has managed to do so, while Norway has not been able to do so yet. Here it depends on Mother's rights. This also creates some problems for northern residents who move across national borders. I met, to take an example here, a Norwegian engineer who moved to Sweden and who was going to be a father. He was married to a Swedish girl. He lost his father's quota because he was a Northman in Sweden. There are fathers who have rights. His wife was Swedish and had no rights. As a result, he lost the opportunity to take out a family allowance. My conclusion is that in the interests of Nordic coordination of the rules, Norway should establish its own rights for fathers as soon as possible. Does the Council agree that this is urgent and that it will facilitate the situation of small children's fathers in the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1688	I agree that this is urgent. And as I said in my first post, we're going to have a work related to just this. We're going through the birth grant scheme. It's been at the hearing, and there's actually quite a number of changes that lie there, waiting for us to sign out. The whole of this work will be carried out in the autumn and some amendments will be proposed that are in line with this. I am very happy to be the Council of State in a government that has actually taken this seriously and already agreed that we should change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1695	Questions 18 and 19 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1701	I allow myself to ask the Social Minister the following questions: ‘The address book states that there is a high number of drug addicts on Inherred in the North Troth Layer and that many overdoses and deaths are feared in the summer. At present, Nord-Trøndelag has very few treatment/detoxification options available to drug users in the county. In my view, this situation is very serious. Will the Council of State take a closer look at this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1710	Yes, I will. I am familiar with the alarming situation of many drug users in the Inherred region through several contacts with me and direct contact between the Department of Social Affairs and the municipality of Verdal. Inherred is one of several regions reporting major and growing problems due to just drug abuse. The background is the large, international, illicit production of drugs that has also hit Norway in the last decade through access to a lot of drugs at lower prices than before. Long-term heroin use was mainly concentrated in the Oslo region. In recent years, the great approach has been, among other things, to: Heroin at lower prices has led to geographical spread, so that, unfortunately, heroin is now available throughout the country, even in the smallest places. One consequence of this spread is that the number of overdose deaths is increasing outside Oslo, while there may be signs of stagnation or decline in Oslo. In addition to the prevention of drug problems, the government is committed to ensuring that drug users are treated as well as possible. That is why we have launched an assessment of the response apparatus for this group of disadvantaged people and of how the different parts of the response chain should be organised in the future. From 1 January of this year, the Ministry of Health has been given a significant responsibility for the healthcare of addicts, and the allocation of low-threshold health measures and medically assisted rehabilitation has increased significantly. It is the municipal social service that has the primary responsibility to provide help and treatment to drug users. If non-daily care services are inadequate, social services should provide room for appropriate treatment or care services. Where the need for institutional space is not met, temporary measures shall be provided for by the social service. However, the social service is not just about responsibility. Local health services, somatic institutions, mental health protection and other parts of the administration have a responsibility towards this group. There is a great deal of experience to find appropriate arrangements in well-organised, inter-territorial and interdisciplinary cooperation on the individual needy. For smaller cities, the major and fast-growing problems with, among other things, many injecting drug users are a challenge that has come up in a hurry. I have therefore started a survey of the situation across the country and want to develop good models of a comprehensive and comprehensive response chain locally with cooperation between all relevant agencies — state and local authorities — which can both help prevent drug problems and ensure the necessary treatment provision and after-care for former drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1725	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State has now started monitoring measures in cooperation with the county councils. In Verdal there are 100 heavy drug addicts, and the municipality can afford to provide only three of them with treatment in the current year. There are several municipalities that are really struggling to make full, good offers. Until the drug notification arrives, there is a difficult situation. So my question is, how can we solve the problems we have until 2004? And what can the Council of State do so that perhaps more municipalities can enter into intermunicipal cooperation to solve the major challenges they face?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1736	Finding good local solutions is crucial. It is also the municipal social service that has the primary responsibility to provide help and treatment, but also in cooperation with others. Yes, it is positive if the municipalities – where it is appropriate – can work intermunicipally. In addition, it is important to be able to have an intervention service and an engagement chain in each municipality that involves not only traditional social and health services but also those on the labour side, the justice side, church and culture, voluntary organisations, healthy young people, drug addicts themselves and their families. This has come quickly in smaller cities and small places, but yes – intermunicipal cooperation is important. In addition, I also believe it is important to make use of the supervisory authorities in relation to the right of appeal and the right to appeal, and that solutions are also widely sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1743	The Health and Social Manager of Verdal has now stated that Nord-Trøndelag County does not comply with the law because they have not established their own detoxification offer. At my discretion, it is very serious that several county councils in the country break the law in this way. What can the Council of State do in relation to the control of these municipalities, and not least the county councils, which commit clear crimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1750	What it's possible to do is, first of all, to clarify who has the actual responsibility, and that's the municipal service. Then you have to work internationally. In addition, it is necessary to use what is available in relation to supervision and judicial remedies. We are in the process of working on this by looking at capacity, organisation, responsibility and a whole chain of measures, so that you do not get into the situation where you say that this is my table, but not yours, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1758	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Braathens added is shaken by the fact that they do not have the same access as added to SAS to continue working as a ground crew after SAS bought up Braathens. What view does the State v/State Council share on this, and will it take any initiative to influence this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1767	In May 2001, the SAS group agreed to purchase Braathens. Aviation in Norway is now undergoing a major transformation. The route offer is converted, adjusted to demand and coordinated, operators are seeking to improve capacity utilisation and the pricing system is changing. The SAS Group seeks to find the most effective and rational way of operating in all areas. From the SAS management, it is informed that Braathens will remain as its own carrier in Norway, with its own aircraft and staff. In order to ensure profitable operation, the costs of the ground services required by Braathens shall be significantly reduced. This is achieved by rationalising the operation. Some of the most obvious effects are achieved by going from double and parallel operating organisations at aerodromes to one operation to serve both airlines, both Braathens and SAS Airline. In particular, there are four areas where double organisations are to be avoided: ticket sales, cargo, technical services and ground handling services at aerodromes. The development of the most efficient operational solutions is organised in a project involving both Braathens and SAS Airline, under the direction of the SAS group. While rationalisation has been expected to lead to plurality, SAS has also stated that a responsible human resources policy will ensure that the need to implement redundancies is minimised. SAS argues that the consequences of labour law differ depending on the solutions adopted. For ticket and freight operations, organisations are merged and then the abundance is resolved. However, groundhandling services at airports must be provided by one organisation and within the SAS group this is Scandinavian Ground Services, which is a separate business unit and provides services to a number of airlines both inside and outside the SAS group. The coordination project has assessed different solutions, but there was no agreement on solutions that provided sufficient savings. However, the SGS offered Braathens an offer to take over their ground operations, saving Braathens more than 100 million. kr per. for the SAS group of around 260 million. kr per. years. At the same time, Braahten's "management" was empowered to discuss human resources policies with its trustees. The SAS Group has experienced significant losses in its operations. As a manager of the state’s shares in SAS – and in many other Norwegian industrial companies – it is in my opinion – and that is my position – that it is up to the board to help achieve profitability in the company. Of course, I expect the company to comply with the law and the contract work, and I have been informed that in the SAS/Braathens case, among others. disagreement on the legal solutions. However, this is not my question to go into detail and solve, but it is the parties involved on the company and employee side that have to take care of this themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1782	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I believe that he is well informed about the matter. I assume he has had contact with someone in SAS to get this information. What's interesting to know is whether he's given any advice in relation to the transition and integration in general, but above all whether he's given advice on the management of the Braathens-additions. It is important to have a strong group of strong ‘daughters’. In my opinion, SAS has shot itself in the foot and got a lot of resistance in the Norwegian people because of it. This can cause big problems. They actually have big financial problems for the time being, they're losing money, and then I'm wondering if the government doesn't see it as a task to give them some advice to deal with this a little bit better?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1791	I was about to say that the problems aren't big enough in SAS if they weren't able to afford them from the Minister of Industry? Of course I'm not going to say that. What I can say is that I've had a meeting with SAS. We have two in the board, we have the chairman. I've had a meeting with the group leader of SAS and with the chairman of SAS. That meeting went on, was to get a briefing at the time of what was the situation as it was assessed and viewed by management. I did not advise the management of SAS on how they should handle the details of that process, and I do not intend to do so either. My job is at any time to help SAS have the best possible control. I have full confidence in those elected to the board as a whole, and I assume that they give the necessary advice and not least the instructions to the management of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1798	I thank you again for your answer. It's a little unfamiliar to me that the Council of State is so modest when it comes to his own influence – but let go. I record that he has been in contact with the top line, and therefore not with them adding their representatives either in SAS or in Braathens, as this is the case. But I want to address another question, and it's true with a business transfer. We also have a role as the governing power with regard to making rules that take care of adding when businesses are overtaken, as is the case in this context. And then I'd like to ask, "Does the Council of State think it's right not to use the rules on the transfer of business in this matter?" And if he thinks it's right that they can't be used, will he take an initiative to change these rules so that they can't be circumvented by separating actions, as SAS has now done?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1807	As the representative says, the authorities have a role, yes, it's actually that the authorities have more roles. One of the roles is to be the owner of the shareholding we have in SAS. That's what's my role. It is then that the Stortinget has a role to play in creating a law on shares that is understandable to Norwegian companies, so that when transferring companies, mergers and any transfer of business, it has to have a law that is as clear as possible. But it will always be that there are some cases where there is disagreement about the interpretation of what you're doing. And that's the situation you're in now, and then we also have authorities that have a role, namely the judiciary, to decide whether it's one or the other thing that's happened. It's not my role to clarify it, and it's not my job to give advice. Nor do I intend to interfere with the disagreement between these two companies, whether there is a transfer of business or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1815	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘It may seem that the legislation for refurbished cars is not good enough. The age of the car determines the safety requirements for any conversion. If the car is old enough, you get rid of it, for example. to install safety belts when mounting more seats. Is the Council of State satisfied with today's legislation, or will the Council of State take a closer look at this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1824	I am not satisfied with today's legislation, and I have, among other things, in the light of the Russian car accidents of the year, work has been undertaken to consider what can be better done to ensure the safety of passengers. This will include, inter alia: be assessed whether rules can be laid down to prevent the conversion of older vans into large passenger cars or whether specific safety conditions should be attached to such conversions, for example. requirements for safety belts in all seating positions. I share Mr. Bredvold's commitment, and will focus on making rapid progress in this work, so that actions can be put into action before next year's Russian celebration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1831	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. We have the same desire and goal to reduce the number of accidents. When you look at this a little bit big, you can do it, for example. be a little frustrating that when you drive a tractor out on an earth for a maximum of 30 kilometres, it is mandatory to wear a safety belt, but not in such cars as we are now talking about. This applies not only to cars that are being converted, but also to buses that have been downgraded from bus to passenger car. So I guess that's all I can say about it. I'm satisfied with the answer, and I hope we can have a dialogue on this, so that we reach the common goal that I perceive we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1840	I can only confirm that here we are fully in line, that we have a common goal in road safety work in this area. Here a work is started, and it's going to go on. The aim is to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic with measures like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1848	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The County of Eastfold has put Fredrikstad on the observation list for new borrowings due to high debt. The municipality has therefore had to reconsider its investment plan, such as: involve the development of multiple kindergartens through private actors. The head of department of the county is now saying – in an interview in Fredrikstad Blad on 15 May this year – that ‘the municipality is running away from its responsibility if it leaves all the nursery facilities to private actors’. Which of these two different governance signals does the Council of State intend to deal with the municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1857	I am aware that many municipalities struggle to get their ends to meet, and that sometimes it may be difficult to follow the signals that come from the state. However, the role of the State is both to control the economic governance of the municipalities and to give signals as to what are important priorities for the municipal services within the municipal economic framework. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible for coordinating government governance signals towards municipalities. The county council plays this role in its own county with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs as the overall authority. In the event of a conflict between sectoral interests and coordination responsibilities, the county must pay particular attention to the consequences of law. Fredrikstad Municipality is subject to state control and approval of financial obligations, as a result of the decision of the Municipal Council to establish a financial plan in which the expenditure is not recovered. There can therefore be no doubt that the county has an obligation to ensure that the municipality has a balanced economy and that this consideration must prevail over normal objectives in different areas of service. In a situation where the municipality does not find any means to cover its expenditure, it is necessary that the State intervenes and uses the instruments provided. Fredrikstad Municipality has been told by the county to reconsider its investment plan. This is done to enable the municipality to establish a balance between income and expenditure. The municipality is free to give priority to the investment measures it can and will postpone. In this context, it would also be natural to consider other organisational models of services, including inter-municipal cooperation and/or the organisation of private actors. In sum: the control signal given is that it shall be balanced. In the opinion of this Council of State, it is not a matter of leaving it to private developers if they have a plan at the same time that the private developers actually take over part of the development of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1870	I thank you for the answer, which was not surprising. I note that as the Council of State concluded, it is the negative signal associated with using private developers to get more kindergartens you can ignore in what has been said by the county council. A natural follow-up question will then be: Will the Council ensure that the State coordinates its steering signals? As the Council of State is well aware, there are many leaders – adopted in this Chamber under different majority and on proposals from different governments – who, in sum, at least for municipalities such as Fredrikstad and many other minimum income municipalities, are in reality impossible to meet with the income levels of these municipalities. It is of particular importance that the county also coordinate the steering signals so that there are no different and confusing signals from the regional state. This is not a new problem with this government. Let me just underline it, so that the Council of State can save time, against taking a rhetorical round on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1881	I think this has happened under all kinds of governments. The signals from individual sectoral interests can be strong and can also be propagated to the county office because of different sectoral responsibilities in this area. It is important that the county councillors coordinate the signals they receive from state authorities. There is one reason why this government supports what the Stoltenberg government did in relation to adding several of the state levels to the county. In the case of activities targeting municipalities, it is important to have coordination — not least when there are tight times and economic imbalances. I fully agree with the questioner that it is important. I also think it is important to admit that not only are there currently many, but too many leaders for which activities the municipalities are going to have, too many goals, which are currently out of proportion to the economy they have. Then what's bound by law becomes the most important tasks for municipalities that have difficult finances. At the same time, it is important for us to ensure that there is consistency between the expectations we provide to the municipalities and the means we make available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1890	Then I would like to thank you for your answer and, to the extent that I end by saying that I am looking forward to the follow-up by the Council of State to what she concluded her answer with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1898	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «In the context of a new research report, the Newspaper may disclose that 90 pst. of homeless children’s families in Oslo have a refugee or immigrant background. Strong and expensive rental market forces lone Somali mothers to the shelters. Children living under such conditions cannot be accepted. Evidence of such a situation shows that the municipality of Oslo does not fulfil its obligations towards a large group in the municipality. What will the Council of State do to overcome such unworthy conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1907	I understand the question so that it concerns both the situation of ethnic minorities in the housing market and the situation of homeless children's families. In order to avoid having children without a place of residence, we must primarily contribute to good housing solutions and to be able to take care of themselves in the housing market. Past reports from Civil Engineering show that one of the reasons why families with ethnic minority backgrounds have difficulties in getting owner-occupied housing is that they are discriminated against on the housing market. New housing laws are being worked on today. A ban on ethnic discrimination on the housing market will be proposed. I would also like to support the inclusion of a ban on discrimination in both the law on rent and the law on ownership. The government has in Ot.prp. No 63 for 2001-2002 proposed that the 10% rule, which currently allows municipalities to purchase housing for the allocation to disadvantaged persons, be extended to include non-governmental organisations with whom the municipalities have agreements. An extended access to the purchase of dwellings for the allocation to disadvantaged persons could mean a clear extension of the available instruments. I would also like to point out that the Government of the revised national budget proposes to increase the allocation of the housing allowance by 75 million. kr. This increase is provided for going to homes for refugees. The high proportion of refugees among homeless children’s families in Oslo is partly due to secondary migration from smaller municipalities. The new housing scheme, which began to operate in 2002, foresees that more people will be accommodated in central areas at the first time. This is in line with the wishes of the refugees themselves, and we hope that it will help to reduce secondary migration and thus give municipalities more control over the influx of refugees. The government has also started work on an action plan against poverty. Among other things, both measures to strengthen employment and action against families with children will be central. The Government will follow up the action plan and present proposals for action in the 2003 State Budget. In many cases it is not enough just to provide a dwelling. Some homeless people need follow-up or penetrating. The ‘Projekt bostedslöse’, a cooperation project between the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs, shall develop housing and service solutions that can be adapted to the needs of individual households. In the department we are now working to ensure that we get the immigration element, the refugee element, well into this residence project. The municipality of Oslo can probably answer for itself, but the report from Civil Engineering, to which reference is made, also points out that the total number of children at the hospital in Oslo has been significantly reduced in the last two years. This is partly due to the fact that you have managed to build up better housing facilities for the families with children. I would also like to stress that the figures currently available in the municipality of Oslo show that per cent. On April 30, it was about 30th. 506 people who lived at the hospital on a daily basis. Of these, 39 are children, and of the 39 are only one who has a private daily/overnight offer. The 38 other children live in the municipality of Deichmansgt. housing centres for refugees, which are therefore a housing facility that is adapted to families with refugee or immigrant backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1918	I thank you for your answer. It is good for a person to go through the housing law systems, and also the possibilities of housing laws to receive various applicants for housing. But what's the starting point for a lot of people living at the hostel is that they're initially referred to the private rental market. And one sees that especially the Somalis, dark-skinned people, are excluded from this rental market. To the extent that they or the municipality are able to distribute dwellings from the rental market, it is only of a very short duration. What seems to be clear is that our market-based housing policy is not able to capture groups that are being pushed out of this housing market for various reasons. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council consider facilitating a stronger regulated housing segment, so that it can catch up with people seeking housing who are currently having difficulties in the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1927	In 1996, we changed the main structure of housing policy by a majority based on the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, with the support of the Christian People's Party on essential parts of it. Then we went from directly subsidising the interest rate in the House Bank to using grants, just to strengthen the weak. And the housing subsidies and housing support schemes have been gradually built up in the years that follow. This government insists that it is the direct personalised grants, which were crystallised as the housing solution in 1995/96 following the initiative of a worker party government, which is the main instrument for this group as well. That's why we're concerned that the random influx into Oslo, which creates a high degree of instability through the secondary settlement, is reduced, because it's easier to use these types of instruments when you have better control through initial settlement. It is also the case that we are working through the ‘Project homeless’ to determine first whether it is a purely housing problem that a person has, or whether you have related problems, for example. by learning to live. In this context, homeless people have first priority over receiving housing allowances. And projects within this will receive housing grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1936	I thank you again for the answer. It is clear that subsidies to those who have difficulties in the housing market are important. But it turns out that it is not enough, that there is actually a need for a stronger and more clear segment with a greater degree of regulation, where the grant actually follows the apartment or the dwelling, so that through it you can build up a housing offer that can be offered to those who have difficulties in the housing market and who are actually being pushed out of it to a very large extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1943	By using housing grants, the municipality can either buy housing itself or provide housing grants, so that individuals who are believed to have problems with the connection can be permanently established. This means that you get a permanent dwelling using these kinds of measures. In fact, I think it is more important for those who are newcomers. All the regulations we have had on the housing market in the past show to a large extent not to help those who are newly arrived at a place, but to give a good entrance ticket for children to those who are already here. One of the problems when you went through, among other things. The effects of house rent regulation in Oslo and Trondheim were precisely that it was not the group that this is about, that was helped, but that it was among other things. were people who had lived there for a long time, or a number of young students who took over contracts that other older members of the family had previously had had. So it's not going to be a social tool. It will be an instrument for those who already have access to the housing market and who have wealthy parents or others to help themselves through the system that is. I therefore have faith in individual-based schemes that help young people, and which help refugees, not least, to get a permanent home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1958	‘The Government asked the Government, in the context of the Cohesion Communication, to ‘help to end the use of accommodation as housing solutions for families with children and lone children and young people’. In spite of this, the Newspaper on 22 May is beating. fixed by several hundred children lived at the hostel. When is the Government planning to comply with the Storting decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1965	It is a clear intention of the Government that children should not stay at the shelter. We recognize that we haven't fully solved this problem yet. But I want to say that this is a priority of the Government in the context of the action plan against poverty, and I believe that the figures from the Municipality of Oslo in the context of development show that we are beginning to achieve some of these objectives. I refer again to the numbers that I referred to in the previous question. It was per year. April 30, 39 children at the hospital. Only one of them has received a private offer. All the others are on what, according to Baugforsk and Dagsavisen, is a shelter, but which is a settlement offer just for relocations, before they can move out to other areas. It was not the intention of Stortinget to prohibit the provision of this kind of housing services to refugee families. In our opinion, it is important to get the children out of the shelters, but it is also important to offer them a satisfactory housing solution in the future. That is why we are engaged in a better housing and service provision for homeless children's families. A project is under way at Husbanken, where the aim is to test different solutions that can be used as a basis for a national strategy against homelessness. In the project, the seven largest city municipalities are invited, as well as the Church's City Mission, the Salvation Army and the Church's Social Service. In this context, it is important to sort out those who have a purely housing problem — a part of the immigrant families, because they experience racism in the housing market — and those who receive housing services. Some of those who come as refugees to Norway also need it to start living in Norwegian society. We have therefore, as I mentioned in the previous answer, proposed that voluntary organisations should also be able to acquire housing within the 10-pst rule for disadvantaged people. We are also working on developing concrete solutions for how to make it possible to live both homeless children's families and others satisfactorily in the seven municipalities participating in the project. Homelessness is an extreme expression of poverty and social exclusion, and it is one of the challenges facing the Government in its work on the action plan against poverty. Having a home and a fixed platform is important for the integration, contact and proximity of these children. Therefore, temporary solutions are not good. There should be lasting links with the community. We present the action plan in the autumn of 2002 in the context of the State budget, and it will include targeted measures to address the needs of both individuals and groups of the population with the worst living conditions — including housing policy measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1978	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I still think it's a little tame, because the number that the council just came up with, that 39 children live at the hostel in Oslo, was new to the day. That figure did not come with the government council when we asked for exactly the same thing a few days ago in connection with the revised national budget. But it's good that the number goes down. I am also pleased that the Council of State says at least that ensuring a stable housing situation is the best way to get out of poverty. The project that goes on homeless, in which the Church's City Mission and many others are involved, is aimed at, and the funds go very much to, people who have additional problems besides the fact that they are poor, while what was the conclusion of the report that the Council of State pointed out about families with children at home for permanent residence, was that to a substantial extent these people had first and foremost one problem. It was that they were poor, and it was that most of their money came from the social office. My question is: what will the Council of State do to contribute more money on this front, so that we can build more cheap dwellings in the municipalities, and also for that matter to the Church's City Mission, as the Council of State is for, and to which I am also positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e1991	So we've proposed increasing the housing allowance and earmarking refugee homes by 75 million. kr in the revised national budget. Further increase in the housing allowance, which is just a subsidy to enable municipalities to acquire or provide direct grants to people in order to settle, will come back to us in the context of the Action Plan against Poverty and in the context of the State budget for the autumn. I want to stress that I agree that these numbers are new. We have asked for the figures from the Municipality of Oslo, and they are from their own report of April 30. It is important, however, that when starting from the Baugforsk figures, which were in the Newspaper, they also include a housing centre, which is a short-term housing offer, but which I think all political parties really think is good, namely Deichmansgt. housing centres for refugees, who have a large group of children living in housing, precisely because this is an offer that is settlement for those to move on out. That means that we need to have a certain degree of accuracy in the use of the numbers that are looking up. I don't think you should underestimate the second-hand housing problem that the Municipality of Oslo is facing. It creates very difficult management conditions, precisely in relation to housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2000	The issue of second-hand residence, referred to several times by the Council of State and also referred to in the report, is largely due to the poor functioning of first-time housing. The Council of State says 75 million will be allocated. kr extra to homes for refugees arriving, because there are several refugees arriving, who we are trying to settle around the country. But then there is a problem when the municipalities report that there is a need to allocate 300 million. kr in order to provide a proper place of residence for refugees, that the State is only willing to provide 75 million. kr. The municipalities even say that they consider withdrawing from the entire agreement negotiated by the State Council and the KS together. Then my question to the Council of State is two-part. One is — back to the basic question: When can the Council of State promise that the decision of the Storting may be fulfilled in the context of the balancing notification? The second is, what does the Council of State say about the problem of providing enough housing for people who first settle in?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2009	With regard to the issue of initial residence, the Storting can decide on this in the context of the review of the revised national budget and see whether they find room to give priority to this at the expense of other things. That's the dilemma you're always facing in relation to this. I would also like to remind you that there has been a huge increase in the appropriations for this particular purpose, and there has been a distortion of the appropriations from other types of groups to refugee homes in recent years, partly because we live in many – when the procedure goes faster, we get a greater pressure for some years – and partly because it looks like the municipalities to a greater extent rather than integrating into the usual housing market, now also buys and uses it. We're going to go through the figures that KS has provided, to assess how much we are going to automatically say to trigger new purchases of dwellings or the construction of dwellings, and how much one can count on the usual integration grant to cover housing costs. It's also part of the municipality that gets compensation for the boute poisons. So when we're going to be able to comply with the Storting decision, we have a municipal autonomy. It's the municipalities that's responsible. We work hard with guidance. Among other things, the Minister of Social Affairs has said that they will follow the example of Oslo in providing guidance, for example: quality agreements, which mean that, to the extent that we have to use the services offered by lucky people, there must be good offers for those who are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2024	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘SFT presented an action plan for the pollutants brominated flame retardants. The plan contains a lot of positive, but exports of second-hand cars, PCs and other equipment that may contain large quantities of brominated compounds to the Third World are not mentioned. How does the Council of State assess the export of pollutants that brominated compounds in relation to the Basel Convention and will the Council of State take initiatives to regulate these exports?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2033	The Government’s objective is to reduce significantly the emissions of brominated flame retardants by 2010. I am committed to achieving this goal, and the State Pollution Control Agency has now proposed an action plan to reduce emissions of brominated flame retardants. Many measures are proposed, both bans and restrictions on use, increased international work, public procurement policy measures, information measures and measures aimed at waste containing brominated flame retardants. This is a follow-up to questions previously raised in the Questionnaire. Exports of second-hand products, such as: cars and used electronic and electrical products, for further use in other countries, are currently permitted, even if exports go to the Third World. Such trade is in principle not regulated differently from exports of new products. Used products may be useful in other countries, e.g. developing countries, even if they no longer meet the requirements of Norwegian users, and it is important not to put unnecessary obstacles in the way of such trade. However, it is important that this does not become a shell for the export of waste and special waste. When the products are considered waste in Norway, we therefore base our waste legislation. This legislation goes beyond our obligations under the Basel Convention. We both have a ban on all exports of special waste to countries outside the OECD and a ban on exports of all waste for final treatment to countries outside the OECD. The reason for this is that we should not be able to solve our waste problems by exporting them to poorer countries. As knowledge of dangerous substances increases and knowledge of the content of such substances continues to expand the lists of types of waste considered as special waste. It is necessary to ensure that discarded products with high levels of hazardous brominated flame retardants are defined as special waste. An amendment to the special waste legislation planned to be consulted before the summer will clarify that discarded electrical and electronic products and car wrecks will be defined as special waste if they contain harmful substances. Both nationally and internationally, we will work to ensure that all products with high levels of hazardous brominated flame retardants are covered by the legislation. In this discussion on the waste problem, it is important to remember that the best thing would be if the products were free from brominated flame retardants and other pollutants. It is therefore essential to provide for direct user regulation and prohibition of the placing on the market — and export — of the most dangerous brominated flame retardants in solid, processed products, whether new or used. The SFT’s proposal for an action plan indicates that Norway wants to go further and is willing to go ahead in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2046	I am very pleased with the last part of the answer to the Environment Minister, because this has been a problem that has been raised by environmental organisations in many countries, not least in the United States, where the technological industry has been bigger than here, and where the export of this type of waste, not least to countries in Southeast Asia, has caused major local environmental problems where these PCs, cars and other things have been picked from each other. There has probably been a technology to do what has been said about cheap labour, and where the safety of the special waste that has come out of these products has been very poor. I am very happy to hear that we will define things that contain large amounts of brominated compounds, such as special waste, and that this will not be allowed to be exported from Norway. Then I'm just curious to hear a little bit more about the time perspective for that. And then I hope that we can further cooperate on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2053	I think it is important that the representative, Mr Sørensen, pointed out that the most important thing is that no products containing brominated flame retardants are now being produced, which - some of them at least - have very negative effects on the environment, which are being absorbed into different organisms, and which may eventually become the new era of PCBs. So we're going to work on that. [[A mobile phone rings repeatedly.]] Then, before the summer, we will be sending out to the hearing a proposal that will define the products – electronic products, PCs and end-of-life cars – as special waste if they contain dangerous, brominated flame retardants, and then they will not be exportable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2060	I thank you for your answer. Important steps are taken by the Minister for the Environment in the field of chemicals policy. I wonder if the Minister for the Environment has any plans to come back to Stortinget with an overview of the chemical policy and the principles to be used for it further – because we have many challenges here, and it is complicated to hang it up – but also where to address the degree of freedom Norway has, and what priorities in the major and difficult subject area Norway has for a more environmentally friendly, offensive chemicals policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2067	I think that's a good input from the representative Sørensen. At the Johannesburg Conference, we are now working to extend the POP Convention, which is the Stockholm Convention, to heavy metals, and we should try to get international understanding and impact on this. It is also the case that the EU is working to tighten up its legislation in relation to brominated flame retardants and that there may be legislation there, which comes into a directive, which also defines the types of products that the representative Sørensen took up as special waste, so that it is not lawful to export them to countries outside the OECD. But we're already going ahead, and we're sending this that's related to the products that were picked up at the hearing right now before summer. I think it's a good idea at some point to give a little more overall review of the chemical policy, and consider it. Without my promise, I could, for example, an appropriate opportunity to do so at the presentation of the «State of the Environment of the Kingdom» to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2076	The President regrets the small amount of interfering technology. The President would also point out that he has no objection that representatives and state councils continue to answer questions and questions after they have left the pulpit, but would like to ask for it to be placed in a place other than the main hall. [[Listening and disturbing conversations in the rotunda.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2086	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment: ‘A district and travel life project to launch the helicopter lift of tourists to the mountain top of Kalda-Kari at Jostedalsbreen National Park has been stopped by the Ministry of the Environment with strict reference to regulations. The current State Council Siri Bjerke has granted exemptions from the regulations for similar harmless measures in protected areas. Right, Jan Tore Sanner and many local groups have been very positive about the project. What will the State Council do to ensure the realisation of this environmentally-friendly project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2095	The case concerns an application from Veitastrond Bygdalag for a helicopter lift for tourists from Veitastrond and up on the mountain Kalda-Kari within Jostedalsbreen National Park. It also needs to establish a dining area on top. The Ministry of the Environment said in April this year that it would not grant exemptions from the national park regulations in order to realise the project. A similar application was considered as early as 1999. At the time, the application was also limited to withdrawing the Kalda-Kari area from the national park and exemption from the general provisions on motor travel. The application for a border change was rejected at that time. With the dispensation practices used in our national park management, the provisions of the national park do not open up so that exemptions can be granted for such measures, even if they are of a temporary nature. Changing this practice could have major consequences in terms of increasing pressure on the use of national parks, contrary to the conditions for their creation. I would like to remind the representative that the Stortinget, at the latest at the time of the 1993 National Park Communication, stated that: ‘recommends the establishment of a relatively restrictive line of authorised activities in the areas of national park status’. As the project is described in the application, there is no doubt that the national park will prevent the implementation of the action. I therefore do not agree with Mr Korsberg when he describes the project as an environmentally adapted project. A project such as: includes frequent, noisy helicopter traffic, clearly belonging to the group of measures that the protection decision aimed at not being implemented within a national park. I would also like to remind you that such a project could not be carried out outside the national park either because of the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act. I therefore cannot find a basis to proceed with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2113	The community here is probably an overrun on the part of the big community. There are many large-scale representatives who have worked actively to implement this project. Sverre J. Hoddevik, Jan Petersen and Jan Tore Sanner have all promised in the election campaign that this matter would be resolved. Similarly, former Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Environment, Stein Lier-Hansen. Kjell Opseth, in the Workers' Party, has said exactly the same thing. It has been dealt with by the local government in Luster, which has given its approval. Sogn and Fjordane County Committees and county councils have been positive for the project – so have Sogn and Fjordane Arbeddarparti, Sogn and Fjordane Bondelag, travel life councils, disability associations, etc. I could still have quite a long time with this exact argument. Why does the Council of State not here want to emphasise the desire of local democracy and to amend the legislation necessary to allow this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2122	First of all, I have to say that the representative of Korsberg mentioned many sensible institutions, not least politicians. The problem with this Kalda-Kari project is that you can imagine a helicopter transport and the establishment of a restaurant in the Jostedalsbreen National Park. With the leaders that Stortinget has laid down, I do not think there is any basis for granting an exemption here. You may have had to withdraw the national park's borders, which I do not think makes sense. In addition, the provisions of the Motor Travel Act need to be reviewed in order to allow for the type of helicopter transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2131	The Council of State said that I mentioned many sensible deposit representatives. I just refer to their argument in this case. I am not going to argue for the views of the Council of State, which may not be entirely in line with the views of these sensible representatives of big business. But here the party on the right in the election campaign has gone in to complete this project. I can promise the Council of States that at least the Progress Party will make sure to try to implement the Right-wing promises in the election campaign, promises that have obviously expired on date. Does the Council of State believe that there are natural arguments against such a testing scheme? Is this interference in nature? It mentions a dining area on the top. But it is clear from the application that it is a temporary place to eat, which can be removed if you want to put this activity down when the trial period expires.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2140	There's no doubt that when you're in a cooperative government, it's about giving and taking. In the right, we have, among other things, have been implemented for NOK 30 billion in tax relief, and on the environmental side we have committed ourselves to pursuing offensive environmental policies. I think that's good. With regard to this project, there has not been a lack of will on my part, or on the part of those representatives, to get real value creation locally. When we've gone closer to what's been going on, and also statements that have been presented to us, it turns out that it's not that easy to create a national park, to build a helicopter landing site and build a dining area. This dining area – even if it should not be permanent – had to be traveled within the national park. Actually, it wasn't supposed to be when you set up this national park, Jostedalsbreen, that you had to have a helicopter landing and also set up a restaurant. There's actually a breach of what's the starting point for that kind of national park.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2147	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-29.ana.ud356e2157	There is no record.
