ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e62	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following comments from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e71	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its work – each party from its ideological point of view. Very many of the chapters that have been dealt with have been widely agreed on, but in some fields there are quite clear dividing lines. The dividing lines seem to be drawn along a scale that goes on a principle of disagreement based on an ideology different from that of the Mjøs. Right, Christian People's Party and Left consider this law, which was intended to form the basis for a completely necessary quality reform in higher education, more like one of several legislative audits, while the Progress Party has also taken on board the fact that higher education appears to be an offer without quality assurance or standards for what should be regarded as good quality. With regard to the accreditation and evaluation body, the greatest disagreement is evident. It is important that this body be designed as a highly professional and independent body, because the whole principle of quality assurance and quality improvement is linked to the professional evaluation work. That reasonably clear decisions in Stortinget in some cases need to be clarified and clarified in relation to the positioning of the Mjøs Committee in order to have a practical system, I believe that it is reasonably unheard of. But that has happened to the political leadership of the department's blessing. This adaptation work has jeopardized the whole process of quality reform, in the opinion of the Progress Party. Furthermore, the Progress Party considers that work on standards should be carried out in relation to the standards used in similar training courses at leading international institutions. In applying such a principle, the Ministry need not lay down rules and work is considerably simplified. In the case of procedural rules, they are drawn up by the body and approved by the ministry. Simple, clear, easy-to-understand principles that one does not have to interpret to any significant extent. In addition, it is necessary to provide for access to complaints in order to ensure legal certainty for users. But the subject of complaints must be independent and professional. We're talking about quality in higher education, and not a sausage stall or more located strategically beyond the whole country. With regard to the private part of higher education in Norway, Stortinget also adopted a decision on a common law, equal treatment between public and private providers of higher education has been achieved. This Decision shall now be implemented in stages. This means that it is much easier to ensure a practice of discrimination already in the area of common rules on quality assurance. Privates must be accredited while being given prior accreditation by the public. This is clearly discriminatory and, in my view, totally unworthy. We share the Government’s view on a national accreditation and evaluation body to be added to Oslo and operational from 1 January 2003. - It was just supposed to be missing! Another point of disagreement, which concerns all, concerns students and the working environment. It has been impossible to gain a common understanding of the application, as far as possible, of the provisions of the Working Environment Act. This is a well-proven law with sanctioning authority and a well-functioning control apparatus. In addition, it is important to remember that the law already works for employees inside the institutions. It is therefore incomprehensible that the majority here appoints an independent public oversight body with sanctioning powers. It is clear that inspectors must queue and look at the same conditions. What will the majority do if there is disagreement between the views of these two bodies on individual matters? Is there going to be another organ to meddle, or is there going to be someone to decide this? The Progress Party indicates that both students and LO are able to support the application of the Working Environment Act, with the control function and sanctioning authority at their disposal. What is important is that sufficient means are provided to implement the necessary dimensioning for operation. We in the Progress Party are ready to guarantee that, but there will be no majority for this either. I see that the clock is running, so I get to take the rest in a three-minute post. I am promoting with this the proposals we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e99	Ursula Evje has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e102	Higher education reforms to ensure better quality have been high on the agenda throughout this session. I can mention new funding system for universities and colleges, a strong improvement in student funding – despite resistance among government parties – new degree structure, higher art education, and the matter we are dealing with here today, new university and university law. Most of the proposals are agreed or a majority of them, based on the Storting decision of the review of the Quality Reform Communication. Here I just have to refer to the vote when the rapporteur has not explained the Committee's position. Let me take this opportunity to justify important considerations on the part of the Workers' Party where there are different opinions in the Committee. A much-discussed question has been the learning or working environment of the students. I am sure that we all agree on the goal of ensuring that students have a good working environment. The disagreement has gone on how it should happen. The Labour Party believes that the Labour Environment Act is not adapted to the situation of the students in relation to the institution, similar to the relationship between the employer and the employee. That is also evident from the minority proposal. We have wanted to make demands on the working environment directly into the law of higher education and not mix different laws. With the decisions taken here today, we will ensure the responsibility for the working environment of students in the law, based on the provisions of the Working Environment Act in this area. Students with special needs are mentioned in particular. This has previously been characterised by student organisations themselves as a long step in the right direction. Furthermore, participation is required for students by setting up a learning environment committee, where students have half of the members. However, with regard to supervision, the government's arrangements are too poor. We believe that there must be independent supervision of the sanctioning authority to ensure that the institutions follow up on their responsibilities. The majority are also asking the Government to submit proposals to that effect by the end of the year, where they also assess the existence of supervisory arrangements, such as: The Labour Inspectorate may hold this function. We just have to make sure that we choose the best solution. The Workers' Party opposes the proposal for annual targets in teaching andresearch positions, meaning that the duration of a temporary post may range from four to twelve years. There is a significant deterioration in the rights of the members of the staff, and that in a sector where there are already a large number of temporary posts. In addition, further extensions would have a negative impact on a recruitment perspective. The current rules of the Civil Service Act on the temporary addition and the detailed rules on annual target allocations in the regulations on administrative/professional management and training positions provide the institutions with adequate opportunities. I have also noticed that the Ministry of Labour and Administration has a similar opinion, and I believe that the proposal implies a right to use annual targets in situations where the real reason really indicates a temporary position. I must admit that I do not understand the comment from the Progress Party in relation to the position they have taken in the matter. The Government has proposed that the accreditation and evaluation body be added to Oslo. We disagree on this. NOKU, as the baby is called, will have a significant number of posts and budgets. From a wider societal perspective with regard to employment and development outside the central strata, the Workers' Party has as its starting point that new state activities are normally to be carried out outside Oslo. I can't see that there are serious reasons and professional considerations that disqualify anywhere other than the capital regarding the location of NOKU. This is a matter of will! The Workers' Party will continue to maintain today's legal provision that the teaching language is normally Norwegian. We believe that this underlines the responsibility of universities and colleges for caring for and developing the Norwegian language for a number of reasons. And this is not contrary to the fact that institutions need to develop more teaching opportunities in foreign languages. The majority, which will remove the provision on Norwegian as a common language of instruction, also consider this to be a matter of course. New law of higher education follows the objectives of better quality in higher education, with improved student everyday life and greater freedom for institutions to meet faster migration requirements. But law enforcement is not enough. From the Labour Party we will underline the responsibility of the Government and our responsibility to ensure that the universities and colleges are secured resources to implement the necessary quality improvement. We will highlight in particular the need for means of conversion at this stage, and that this will be included in future budgets. Many have referred to the quality reform as the student reform. Of course, it has several purposes. But whether we look at research or other social organs, we need to focus on providing the young people of future generations with the best opportunities to succeed in achieving their educational goals. They are the foundations of the knowledge society. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals in which the Labour Party is part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e130	Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e133	This is a major and important matter, and it is very gratifying that the Government will be largely supported by its amendments. The background to the case, as explained by the rapporteur, is the quality reform for higher education and the need to make certain changes to the existing law in order to achieve the objectives set. Promoting the freedom, governance and governance of institutions and strengthening the overall learning environment are the main objectives of the proposed amendments. In addition, there is a proposal for an independent accreditation and evaluation body. On the right hand side, there is reason to express joy that this will have a majority in the Großing. There is some disagreement in the committee, and I will be allowed to comment on some of these points. First addition ratio. The majority support the Government’s proposal that annual target allocations may take place in teaching and research positions when the official is to participate in projects. We believe that this is important in order to facilitate institutional migration processes and that it is important to get away from cumbersome authorisation schemes. The maximum annual target allocation will be 12 years, as laid down in the Civil Service Act. First of all, we would have wanted some greater flexibility, but it was not possible to get a majority for it. The system now supported by the majority is of the opinion that it is important for flexibility to be introduced and put in place, even though greater flexibility could therefore be desirable, while in time the delimitation would not prevent the necessary recruitment to these positions. And let me again stress that the provisions of the Civil Service Act on the maximum limit will apply. So to the election, possibly the addition, of leaders. The freedom of institutions to define the internal organisation themselves is also seen as important. One of the objectives of the legislative amendments is to strengthen the management and governance of institutions. The fact that the Governing Board itself decides whether to appoint the head of department or basic unit on an annual basis or to be elected will strengthen the Governing Board’s position as the top governing body. It is gratifying that there is still a majority for this, and that the minority has taken note that this majority exists and is basing it on. Thirdly, I would like to mention the independent accreditation and evaluation body. For the right, it is important that the body be guaranteed independence and legitimacy. We believe that the Government's proposal does so, and that the proposal follows up the Storting's consideration of the quality reform. I'll be allowed to remind you that the body's decisions are not to be reviewed by the ministry. From the Right, we do not share the concern of the Progress Party that it may weaken the legitimacy and independence of the body that the department of Section 13 No. 3 is given authority to impose on the body according to its own regulations. § 13 nr. 3 says explicitly: ‘The Ministry may not impose on the body additional to that laid down by law, regulation or administrative action by the Ministry and may not over-examine its accreditations’. The independence and legitimacy of the body is guaranteed. The Committee is unanimous in its amendment to Section 46 to make old and new universities equal in relation to the subjects, subjects and subject groups to be offered. For the Right, it has not been natural to make a distinction in the law between the old and possible new universities. We justify our vision by referring to the settings of the Mjøs Committee and to the Inn. S. No 337 for 2000-2001. I refer to the setting where this is referenced. On the right, the Mjøs Committee agrees that there is no need for more classical universities in Norway. When the Progress Party uses in its note the term «broad university» instead of «classical university», I must point out that these are not necessarily synonymous terms. When the Progress Party further interprets the majority's remark as preventing it, for example. The college in Stavanger from further expanding its subjects, it is not in line with the interpretation Right and the other majority adds in their comment. The possibilities for obtaining university status are not compromised by the comments of the majority. Criteria of the Mjøs Committee for the achievement of university status as set out in the Innst. S. No 337, stand firm and are not rocked. The last point I want to mention is the student's learning environment. Here the governing parties form a majority together with the Workers' Party. It is important to ensure a good learning environment and working environment for students. The proposed legal text specifies the requirements to be applied to the physical working environment. Participation is reflected in the legislative proposal by setting up a learning environment committee with an equal number of representatives from the students and from the institution, and that the leader is elected from among them each year in an alternating manner. On the right, we are satisfied with the wording of the law. However, we support the need for an independent supervisory body with sanctioning authority. During the next week, the Stortinget will deal with the issue of changes to the private higher education law, and then work on a common law will start during 2002. It'll be an important process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e164	The government has largely followed up what the Storting said in the Inn. S. No 337. This is to be described as a quality reform. Then you can always discuss whether you can say in advance that a reform will be a quality reform. But at least what is quite certain is that it is a reform, a comprehensive reform that we are facing, and we also hope that it will be a quality reform. It is both a structural reform and a content reform. What we're doing today is getting all the structures in place, putting them into the law. Experience has shown that we are very good at structures. Previous reforms have shown that we get the structures in place, but then we may not always be as good about the content of the reforms. I hope that the content, the content reform, will also come into place as well. There is no primary responsibility for us. The primary responsibility lies with the institutions, and I hope and believe that this will work well. I also think that we have done the most well, as we have previously dared to both grasp the learning environment and see it in the context of evaluation, assessment, grades, etc. Since we were so ready to give strong leadership when we were treated Innst. S. No 337 for 2000-2001, I feel confident that we will also be able to cope with the content reform in a good way. But there are challenges for the institutions. Then Stortinget previously treated Innst. S. No 337, we got the scholarship part in place. The majority decided to increase the grant rate to 40 p.m., an important part of the reform, which I am pleased to be in place. So now it's the structures that we're going to have in place. There is broad consensus in the Committee, but in some areas there are different majority and minorities. First to the learning environment and working environment regulations for students. This is an old thing that we've been doing for years. I am very sorry that the Government was not even clearer about the need to base the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. I see no strong reason not to rely on the provisions laid down in the Environmental Protection Act with the supervisory authorities put in there and that we use the structures that are organised there, because the environmental protection law and the supervisory bodies there include the employees of those institutions. It would also be natural for them to include students, which is the largest group. The extension of the annual target set-aside to which it has been added, I think, is the wrong way to go. I think we should have applied to the general provisions that apply to teaching staff and research personnel in the state, and not extend the possibility, as the majority now submits, by saying that one can be targeted in projects for up to 12 years. This is not in accordance with the labour law that applies, and I think it is unfortunate that we open this up. We'll get the accreditation body in place. The Committee strongly emphasises that this body should be involved in building up and supporting the institutions in their quality work. It is important that the accreditation body takes this role so that it does not become a controlling body in the first place, but is based on the institutions and builds up and supports the improvement work and development carried out there and takes that role seriously. I am also a little surprised that the government parties do not follow up the proposal to put this body outside Oslo. There has been a slogan for the Government — at least for parts of the Government — to say that new supervisory bodies should leave Oslo. Here we're setting up a new body, but you don't want to get involved in putting it outside of Oslo. I'm sorry. I am also pleased that we are not now making a distinction between old and new universities regarding the possibility of accepting the establishment of a profession, but say that being defined as a university, whether it is before a date or after a date, has the same right to professional freedom as regards the establishment and termination of a profession. I am somewhat surprised that the Right is not a member of the minority who says that Norwegian should be a language of instruction in the general rule. It is within the law of the day, and it should be natural for us to stress this. These are the highest education institutions we have, and we should be able to say that Norwegian is the language of instruction. I regret this and am surprised that the Right does not participate, the Right who is concerned with culture and cultural heritage. So we know that this will cost money. I hope that when we get to the budget, we are ready to grant the billion that is probably needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e192	Odelstinget is currently dealing with the legal follow-up to the Quality Reform for Higher Education. I am pleased to note the broad political welcome of this reform. The government's proposals have been based on the majority position of the Stortinget in spring 2001. With the changes in the composition of the Storting after the last fall, the minority views of the Christian People's Party at the time can be measured, now have a majority in this case. In particular, there is one point, namely the freedom of institutions to determine their own internal organisation in relation to management at departmental level. The last harvest has also given a majority to allow some state higher education institutions to be organised as independent legal entities, i.e. as special legal entities. This is in line with the majority in the Mjøs Committee, and here the Government has launched a process that has the support of the Christian People's Party. The main innovation of today’s legislative act is the creation of an independent accreditation and evaluation body. Decisions in this national body for quality of education — NOKU — shall not be reviewed by the Ministry, which is important to ensure the legitimacy of the NOKU. However, it is important that institutional accreditation standards become as clear and unambiguous as possible in order to ensure the level of higher education, which the Ministry can contribute to by means of regulations on procedures and standards. The professional assessments are the responsibility of NOKU and cannot be set aside by the Ministry. Here I feel that the criticism from the Ursula Evje Progress Party, according to my opinion, is poorly thought out and completely baffles the content of the bill. The Christian People's Party believes that it is a central task for the NOKU to evaluate the institutions' internal quality assurance system and to be a professional advisor to the institutions on system improvement. I have registered with satisfaction that many institutions have done well. Under the auspices of the Norwegian Network Council, both universities and state and private universities have participated in a two-year project for the development of quality systems in the institutions. This project has provided good experience for further work. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that NOKU be established as soon as possible. When the Stortinget decided to set up an independent accreditation and evaluation body, we pointed to the competence of the Secretariat of the Norwegian Network Council. Both the time aspect and the competence environment indicate that NOKU is established in Oslo. The Christian People's Party has always said that a university is a university. That's why we laid down the criteria of the Mjøs Committee for the accreditation of universities. We have wanted a more dynamic law that allows the institutions to qualify professionally for major teaching and research tasks. With such quality improvement and professional qualification, we can also give institutions greater freedom to take responsibility for the provision of education. There is no national need to develop copies of the universities that we already have, or to expand disciplines that are already well covered. There is therefore no need for more ‘classical’ universities in Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that the creation of new subjects at universities will be governed by professional considerations and quality, economics and social needs. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee in the setting takes the legal consequence that a university is a university. Many people today experience difficulties in getting accepted education from abroad at home. It should be a principle that foreign education should be recognised when these are equivalent to those of Norwegian institutions. Here, NOKU has an important role to play. But we can also contribute to this through international agreements. In the Nordic region, we have developed close cooperation in the field of education through exchange mechanisms and professional cooperation. A report to the Nordic Council of Ministers on the rights of Northern Ireland residents tells us that this cooperation does not work properly. We should therefore develop stronger Nordic coordination of education, examination and competence requirements. In addition to educational cooperation, mutual recognition of Nordic diplomas should now be incorporated and treated as equivalent. This is important in order to create a well-functioning labour market in the Nordic region and ensure good labour skills. I therefore believe that the Government must now take the initiative to review and modernise the Nordic agreements in the field of education in order to facilitate student exchange and recognition of education and qualifications, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports such a proposal. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that we are now getting better regulation into the law on the learning environment of students. We agree that we need an independent supervisory body with sanctioning authority. We are also pleased that students are part of a learning environment selection and thus actively participate in the development of a better learning environment. In the investigation work to be carried out, a student’s complaint procedures should also be assessed by the supervisory body. Finally, the Christian People's Party wants to create a common law for both state and private institutions. We meet that work, and hope it doesn't go out in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e209	Today's bill is a follow-up to Stortinget's treatment of quality reform. Quality reform must include, inter alia: give educational institutions greater freedom and responsibility for strategic governance. Students should be better monitored through student evaluations, greater representation in governance and a good learning and working environment. A new accreditation and evaluation body shall carry out a professional assessment of whether an institution meets a given set of standards. This body shall be independent. Its decisions shall also not be subject to review by the Ministry. The Party considers that this will contribute to ensuring the legitimacy of the accreditation body in the environment and institutions concerned. The rapporteur has explained that there is a great deal of consensus in most areas. That's good. However, I would like to highlight some areas in which the Central Party, together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, make up a minority in the vote. The first concerns additions. The centre lot coincides with the two mentioned lots against § 30(3). 2 that annual additions may take place in teaching and research positions when the official is required to participate in the project and that the duration of a temporary post may be from four to twelve years. The centre party will point out that there are already a large number of temporary posts in the sector and that an extension with annual target posts would have a negative impact from a recruitment perspective. Nor can the Central Party defend the Government's proposal because it significantly weakens the rights of the appointed parties. The second case concerns the language. The central party is concerned – in the same minority – that the Government proposes to abandon § 44 no. 1 that the teaching language is Norwegian. The Centre Party will stress that universities and colleges have a special responsibility to maintain and develop the Norwegian language, and to develop Norwegian professionalism. In addition, I would like to stress that teaching in Norwegian is the guarantee that higher education will remain available to all, and that ensures the public the possibility of information and transparency. For this reason, a proposal has been made by the minority: ‘The language of instruction is common to Norwegian.’ Of course, this does not prevent universities and colleges from developing teaching offerings in foreign languages, as the Committee has pointed out. The third issue concerns the location of the newly created National Quality Education Body (NOKU). The majority – consisting of the government parties, supported by the Progress Party – supports the Government's proposal that this body be placed in Oslo. The centre party has noticed that the government in this case does not take the consequence of the existence of competent professional environments in the other university cities. Therefore, the minority has proposed that NOKU be located outside Oslo. I would like to end by stressing that the new Law on Higher Education is a good tool for higher education quality-enhancing institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e224	Let me first make a few comments on parts of the vote, where the majority has made new proposals, or nuances, in relation to the Government's proposals. The first concerns the issue of facilitating the mobility of students in the Nordic region. I think that is a very positive proposal, and I can inform you that there is already work going on in the Nordic Council of Ministers to follow up the investigation that is available at Nordic level. Secondly, it is a request to the Government to come back before the end of 2002 with an assessment of an independent supervisory system in relation to the student learning environment. And of course we're going to do that. I do not conceal that we believe that the deadline is relatively short, but of course we should strive to reach it. Thirdly, it is the Committee's wish that there should be no legal distinction between old and new universities. I noticed that. I have also noted the Committee's relatively strong emphasis that there is no need for more classical latitude universities – a note that is consistent with the position of the Mjøs Committee. Then I want to give recognition to the committee and to the Stortinget as a whole for the extensive work that has been done in connection with the so-called Quality Reform – a work that I have partially observed while I was not in government. It is in my opinion that the Stortinget has carried out a very thorough treatment of the quality reform at all stages, and it is certainly right to note that there is a relatively broad consensus on this in the Stortinget. I also think that the Stortinge have made constructive proposals on various points for improving the reform. This is, although today the matter may seem small because we do not deal with it for so long, a major reform. There are great expectations for the sector. There's a very big job going on. The sector deserves recognition and support for the work done – and I believe that it gets with the broad consensus that is here in Stortinget. We are dealing with many issues related to the quality reform. The chairperson of the Committee raised the question of whether this really is a quality reform. Yes, I would say it has three important purposes. Firstly, to increase the quality of education, research and quality assurance systems, secondly, to increase the efficiency of education and thirdly to increase the degree of internationalisation. And then someone asks, is it possible to increase efficiency and quality at the same time? Is this really a quality reform? Yeah, I mean it. The concept of efficiency is not the same in academia as in industry. The concept of effectiveness includes both efficiency of purpose and cost-effectiveness. It's not per. definition of something qualitatively high by not exploiting the academic year, by not providing students with sufficient guidance, by failing to complete a doctorate or by spending too much of their time on administration and forms rather than research. I believe that the changes that are now being made are correct. Students shall now be required to make better use of the academic year, obligatory syllabus and better guidance. At the same time, they receive a study funding, which has been mentioned here, which is more rewarding for progress. The institutions themselves are given much greater freedom to organise their own activities, but are also given greater responsibility for the results achieved. Institutions will also be rewarded for progress and quality. The reason why we're doing this is the same thing as for any higher education in the world. Global demand for higher education is growing enormously, because education is now for the many and not just for the few. The need for highly specialised knowledge is increasing. Cross-border mobility is increasing and the need for quality assurance of institutions and recognition of qualifications is increasing. And whether you like it or not, this also leads to increased competition between institutions and between countries to provide good education and attract students and excellent researchers. In that case, institutions must somehow achieve and demonstrate high quality and disseminate it to the outside world. Someone asks, is this a breach of old traditions? I don't mean it. You can almost view it as a return to old traditions. Originally, the University of Europe was universal, as it stands in its name; it was European institutions more than national institutions. They had a common degree system, and indeed common teaching language, and in many ways, what we're doing now is a return to some of these ideas. With today's language usage, we might say that the higher education institutions are global institutions, although they have received and continue to have and must have very important national tasks. In addition to the fact that there is a relatively broad consensus in the Storting on this, although there are also important shades and distinctions, I would add that there is also a broad consensus in the sector about the reforms that are now taking place, and that there is a great deal of work in progress that deserves support, and I believe that the Storting through the consideration of the issues that are being dealt with today, including: it gives to the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e251	I'm going to use the lines to give the council the opportunity to elaborate on some points of view, as 5 minutes is not that much. The Government has proposed the addition of the new accreditation body to Oslo. I said in my speech that we disagree with that, more on the basis of further social policy objectives, that one should initially place new state jobs outside the capital. This isn't a small-scale organ. As we have been informed, this is about approx. 30 posts and a budget of 30 million. kr. And that's what I'm asking myself: are there weighty reasons, either professional or otherwise, that simply disqualify anywhere other than the capital for such a geographical location? Aren't there environments elsewhere that you can play at? I understood from the timing of the Quality Reform last summer that a point with the accreditation body was to ensure more independence from existing environments that worked in the area, while now it seems that contact with the existing environment is an argument that the capital is actually the only place to place such a body. Is there, in short, more masculinity reasons and less financial outlays that are crucial to the location of a body that I believe is at least of a certain size? It was an earlier agreement when it came to the Technology Council. We took note that the Government also wanted that in Oslo, but that was very limited, and some powers should also be available to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e258	It is, in my opinion, far too strong to say that everyone else is disqualified, in order to have such an organ located at its disposal. That's not the point. An assessment has been carried out. As the Storting is familiar with, the Government is very concerned that we should be able to place new state jobs elsewhere in the country than Oslo, but there is an assessment in each case, where we are going through some critical questions in this regard, and that is also what it is doing here. We have then made an overall assessment and believe it was most appropriate to locate this to Oslo. I would say that there are two or three reasons for what has been quite crucial. First, the time factor. It would certainly lead to a longer time – sometimes much longer – to establish it elsewhere than in Oslo, because we can build here on an existing trade union environment. This time factor may not seem so important for those who are not concerned with quality reforms in higher education. But what I have learned since I became Minister of Education is that Norway is quite late to put in place such quality assurance bodies, and that it would simply be a little bad and difficult to implement the quality reform in order to get the quality assurance bodies in place later. So this time factor has been important, and then in connection with that we're going to build on an existing professional environment. Of course, there's a professional environment here, and even if I say that somewhere else would not be disqualified, it's not a professional environment that's fluent around, you have to say, so we have to build something up. Another element that has been important to me is that this body should also be able to assess foreign education. There are quite a number of people coming to Norway who should have their education assessed simpler than today, and perhaps be accepted in a better way. They're mainly coming to Oslo, I think it's right to say that, and it's also been a reason why I thought it was right to add this to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e269	Two points to the Council of State: she spent a lot of time in her speech talking about the need and importance of quality and also then with international ties. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that we need a system of accreditation and evaluation, that we need a separate body. We have a slightly different view of the degree of independence. On the part of the Progress Party, we are concerned that we focus on the standards to be used and that we also look around the world and use standards related to similar training at leading institutions internationally. How will the Ministry ensure that we set a standard when we accreditation and evaluation in Norway, which is measurable and comparable to and securely anchored in such standards as we find at international leading institutions? That's the one. The second is related to some government council not affected — it may not have been time for that. It's about the learning environment. There I shall be brief and say that there is obviously greater disagreement in the committee. I would like to ask the Council of State why is there no trust in the Labour Inspectorate? Labour inspectorate is in operation and shall keep staff records related to the institutions affected by the legislation. Why is there no willingness to use a body that already exists, which is the supervisory body, which has sanctioning powers? What are the weighty reasons for the ministry for not being able to use this body, also to ensure that students gradually get a proper learning environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e276	Let me first say about the accreditation body: the government is, of course, very concerned that it should be independent and that it should have legitimacy. I believe that the proposal we have put forward is in line with this. The Ministry may not review its accreditations, all evaluations shall be publicly known, institutions shall be given the right to appeal, etc. I believe that we have followed up in a good way. I have noticed the comments of the Advance Party, among others. the requirement that we adhere to international standards. Very well known, there are no such standards. As I perceive the situation – almost globally – there is a great deal of work going on in assessing and ensuring the quality of institutions and subjects. But to say that there is one standard would be completely wrong. I was at a conference in Washington not so long ago about this, and then questions were raised as to whether we could ever get one global standard. There are many people who doubt that this is possible. But there is a lot of work going on in international organisations, in individual countries, etc. Of course, we are following this with great interest, and we will also be participating in these international debates and there is an active driver. But per year. Today I can't see that there are some international standards that we could just apply. Of course, as far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, we have confidence in that. The question is probably more whether this is a suitable way and an appropriate way of supervising the learning environment for students, as it is a law that primarily regulates the relationship between employers and employees. But I've noticed what the majority wants, and we're going to do: we're going to consider such independent supervision and come back to it – as far as we can, within the time limit that the Storting has asked us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e285	Let me stress that I agree with the Council of State that there are no international standards for accreditation. And we probably won't get that either, I don't think it's possible to do it at international level. The State Council used Oslo as an argument for the location of the new accreditation body, inter alia: that it will recognise foreign education and that a good part of the students will come to Norway, to the University of Oslo. The Committee has now made it very clear that the individual institution that will have the primary responsibility for approval will have a heavy responsibility. The role of the accreditation body will be primarily to coordinate, coordinate, and then to each institution. I think that this argument gets a little thin when you see it in relation to it! Then to the quality reform. I am convinced that this will be a quality reform – I am absolutely sure it will be! For the time being, it's a reform, but it's a quality reform just because we have such very good institutions. So to what's my question to the Council of State. It's in language. It is surprising that the Right will not participate in the lawmaking of the Norwegian language as a general rule. I am surprised at the argument that is also used, and that is the following: we cannot see that today’s legal wording ‘has had any practical significance for the language situation at Norwegian universities and colleges’. But that's not the point!Oh, my God! The point is that these educational institutions have a responsibility for Norwegian language independent of the institution, and it surprises me that the Council of State will not participate in the lawmaking of teaching as a general rule in Norwegian! Nationality and identity are linked to languages. And if the higher education institutions – universities and colleges – do not have a primary responsibility for managing our language, then who will be responsible?? ?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e296	I don't think I can live in a war-like debate here. These are balances. When it comes to the location of NOKU, I am aware of what the representative, Mr. Reikvam, was talking about. One alternative could also be that NOKU had a local office in Oslo, although its head office was elsewhere. It would degrade the solution. But all in all, there has been a weighing of different relationships, and the government has found that it would locate this to Oslo. That doesn't mean that anywhere else would be impossible – you can also choose elsewhere even if it gets more expensive, because you want it. But here the time factor and the existing professional environment were particularly crucial. So to this in teaching language: it is well apparent from what we have presented, that what we are proposing, of course, is not intended to weaken the responsibility of the institutions for the development of Norwegian as a professional and academically applicable language and the development of Norwegian professional terms. Once again it becomes a balance – is it wise to have it in the law or not? We have also been concerned about the second consideration, namely that it is important to develop offers in English. I have to say that I'm a little worried about the development we have, namely that very many Norwegian students are now going out and studying, even on a full-time basis, while the flow of the other way is not as good. Now we may not be able to expect it as a small country, but I would like Norwegian institutions and education to appear more attractive and competitive for foreign students. Then I think we also have to offer in English, and then there is a reflection of what is in the law, becoming too strong a signal in the direction that you do not develop offers in English, for example. I guess that's what made us choose to do it this way. But there is no disagreement about the responsibility you have for Norwegian, or what I think is going to happen in practice in the institutions, where Norwegian is going to be the most used language, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e305	I want to look a little bit ahead. I also said in my post that we are now making some important legislative decisions, but that will also require resources. Although I have seen that the Council of State has been primarily concerned with content and has given less attention to resources, I think it is obvious that resources are also needed. In this context, I want a strong Council of State that can fight for funding for the education and research sector, and I must admit that in the context of the budget, I was disappointed as education and research had to provide well 500 million. kr. I note that in the revised national budget, the sector is also being abandoned. And in relation to the law that we're adopting now, I think that means of conversion is absolutely crucial if we're going to be able to maintain the optimism that I perceive is out of the system. There is an important work that is going on, and one must not simply be told that they must stay within existing frameworks or perhaps risk a decline. In the light of the needs described, this transition phase requires that the quality reform on the rails should simply be accompanied by the means that we have included in the budget of the year. Could the Council of State here express some obliging expectations of a resource effort to follow up the Quality Reform, I shall guarantee that at least she will not have any problems with our party here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e310	I am absolutely sure that the representative Bjørnstad understands that I am not going to say anything specifically about the outcome of the budgetary procedure in the Government, or what we are going to present to the autumn. I fully agree with him that funds are also necessary for the sector. We have a research escalation plan, and we have a quality reform that also requires funding in the university and higher education sectors, and it is important that these two things are also seen in context, because they are very closely linked. So I can just give a general support that it's also important. But then I would also like to add that of course it is also important how to use the funds, and then I would draw attention to a matter we are going to deal with later, but as we have recently promoted, namely the roll-out message on the recruitment of scientific staff, where I believe there is a slight shift in research policy. In part, there is an ambitious plan there – a more ambitious plan than we have had now – for stepping up doctoral scholarships. But the second is that we're quite concerned about the research conditions, that it's not just counting minds, that's the number of researchers, if the researchers have bad conditions and thus don't get the quality of the research, or disgust or what it should be. So there we put up a strategy that says that before adding more researchers, you should make sure that the conditions for the researchers we have are good enough, whether they're scientific equipment, or they're babysitting, to put it a little bit at the top. It is also an important signal for the use of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e315	The Council of State claimed, in a reply from the representative of Sortevik, that it had read the comments and proposals of the Party of Advancement. Her interpretation concludes that there are no international standards. This is a correct observation. But in our proposal, no. 5, among other things, is:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Accreditation and evaluation shall be carried out on the basis of the standards used in similar training courses at leading international institutions.’;» And then you're not in an international standard set. Quality assessments carried out by some leading international institutions are part of this process, and in fact, significant quality work is currently being carried out in a wide range of countries. So here there's an imprecision in the actual interpretation, which in turn makes it difficult to communicate and agree. And I would very much like the Council of State to elaborate on its interpretation of international standards in relation to the fact that we only want standards to be created in cooperation with comparable leading international institutions, because they exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e325	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Evje, is in the Chamber, and that I myself was in the room for a very significant work to be done. It may well be that the quality of quality assessment work and quality assurance work carried out also vary. I don't think Norway needs to have ambitions just about trying to copy someone else, or hang out with someone else. We can simply have ambitions to create a quality assessment system, a quality assurance system, which, for me, would like to surpass everyone else, to which others would like to look. After all, we are also going to mannify this professional community with highly qualified people, who, once again, are going to attract the top qualified professionals in the home and abroad in order to assess the professions and institutions and ensure quality, and, if necessary, to separate them in the worst cases. It must also be possible within such a context. So I'm not afraid that we're not going to keep a top international level, but I think we can have ambitions to develop our own system, which is keeping goals, and that we can then participate in the work of a number of international organisations on quality assessment, and share experience on this. In some respects, international developments may also be more common. It could be. I find it difficult to believe in a global system, but it may well be that in what is today called trade in education services, it will, among other things, be. say the 14 000-15,000 students we have out there may need to develop to look at some quality assurance standards. We have an interest in, to put it very briefly, that the students we have out there, who are largely funded by the Norwegian state, and who may have to come home and work here, are staying at institutions and take educations that hold goals. We have a self-interest in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e335	So the chord change is over. Those who are now given the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e340	There is hardly any reference to speaking time in this important matter. We'll have to take it with us for another time that we'll make it a little bit more liberal. So it's going to have to be an extra post like this. Let me, on behalf of the Progress Party, stress that, as the Council of State also said, there is a lot of positive happening in the education sector. We have many things before we now take vacations, which bear witness to it. This case is also an important matter. It's a proper step in the right direction, but in our opinion it's a small step, and the pace is fairly slow. So we have a decision in Stortinget that we should have one common law for all institutions, both publicly owned universities and colleges and private colleges. The ‘law’ adopted by the Government to interpret the decision has been pointed out in various contexts by the Progress Party and there is reason to point it out again. It's a right that the Government is adopting, to which we are very critical. We now see that we are going a completely unnecessary extra round to adapt two laws that are going to end up in one common law. This could have been done at faster pace and directly. We received a response from the Council of State on this with accreditation and evaluation related to the international aspect, which was somewhat better when asked once more from my party trap. Again, there is reason to stress the international importance of measurement vis-à-vis leading institutions. And it can't be that you're retiring to measure yourself against those who're good out there in the world -- on the contrary, in another field of education, namely, through the PISA study, we've just been reminded that we're mediocre, and we have to have a goal in higher education, that we're going to be close. Then it must be important that we find leading institutions internationally that we have to compare with and that we have to aim for, or at least get closer to what we can do by. today. I also received an answer when it came to the use of the Labour Inspectorate. That, I think, was a bad answer – an answer that does not provide any serious grounds for not using the supervisory body that already exists, that is within the institutions and that has sanctioning powers. It remains to be concluded that you don't want to, that you want to cover it by going a completely unnecessary round to figure out. It's a strange attitude if you have as your starting point that students should gradually get a real learning environment. And then I'm just going to mention that we're also concerned about the goal assignment, when it turns out that it can be extended to 19 years. We don't want to. So we've put in a few notes that we need to look at this a little bit more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e355	It is of course nice to record the broad connection that it is to the Government's submission on this matter of better quality in higher education, which the law changes really adds up to. It is also nice to note that there are representatives in the hall who think that things should have gone even faster, and that the government would have done even more in this area, and I hope that some of those expectations can be met fairly quickly. One of the aims of the law is that more students should be able to carry out the studies, and not just to be able to carry out the studies, but to be able to carry them out with good results and in a normal time. In the context of today's situation and the results achieved in this area, this is a very ambitious objective. This also applies to internationalisation, which has been strongly promoted in the debate today. But the committee's leader, Rolf Rikvam, was concerned that even if we make a law decision, it doesn't produce results in itself. The results are to be achieved at each institution in close cooperation between our good professionals and our ambitious students, and through the good study environment that they jointly manage to create. The legislative decision now gives individual institutions, individual colleges and individual universities the freedom to build up management and structure, governance and forms of cooperation in a way that they themselves wish and which they find most suitable for their activities. And so far we have met the wishes and objectives of the institutions and the sector. Then a lot of time is spent on this accreditation body, that there is also a step on the way to improving quality. And so far, I agree. But also in this area, it does not solve the issue of quality in higher education, nor does it solve the issue of the law of an accreditation body. In the long run, it is also a responsibility that must lie within the individual institution, that one has good internal quality assurance systems, that one has procedures in the individual organisation and institution that deal with deviations when they occur, and is able to innovate that there are some who do things better, and that one has the opportunity to learn from it in order to improve the activities of one's own university and university. In short, this is a management responsibility that we have to make it very clear that, irrespective of the law, it is with the individual who is responsible for the day-to-day. At the end of the day, I would like to make a point – since there has been a point on how the Right can be involved in some formulations on Norwegian language – that we think that the wordings put forward by the majority are a good way to preserve the Norwegian language and the Norwegian cultural heritage, for which the Right will continue to be an avid spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e370	More students in a shorter time! Today, this is a good right-wing policy. Last time the theme was up, in the context of Reform 94, this was Herna’s Labour Party policy. What should the voters believe about this mixture? That the Workers' Party says they do not understand our particular comments, is as expected. When the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the independence of the body is guaranteed, it speaks for itself, especially when the ministry has the right to a great deal in terms of what NOKU is going to do, and how NOKU is going to do it. Where the ministry cannot subsequently review the decision of the NOKU, this is only a flake. The material content is contained in the law. The Progress Party will have flexibility in the addition of teaching and research positions. The purpose of flexibility is to be able to make the necessary changes quickly when, for example: The student's selection changes, and the staff needs to be changed by individual faculties or departments as a result. For the Progress Party, it is the student and research that are the most important aspects to take into account in a quality reform of higher education. Despite the desire for increased flexibility, we are quite clear in our view that temporaryity for up to 20 years in paid employment is an unsustainable situation. Periods such as scientific assistant and post-doc. position are then included. Because of this, we will not support the Government’s proposal but await the conclusion of the Labour Law Committee. This means that we have legal access to annual targets related to the project, but that limitation of the length of these posts is made as soon as the Labour Law Committee has completed its work. Finally, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party had a majority for a different and simpler structure in the handling of the position of the Mjøs Committee a year ago, a structure which went on to a total professional and administrative activity at departmental or basic level. This model would have contributed to the development of effective quality assurance procedures for all institutions, and the loyalty commitments would be much clearer than they are with today's majority model, which appears to be partly unyielding and a real headache in relation to quality principles that must be present to ensure both students and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e383	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over. [[See page 339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e399	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited as follows: Working party 10 minutes, right 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Olsen, who has the floor first because the rapporteur, Mr Hildeng, is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e412	I'll take the Innst. O. No 56, cf. Ot. pp. No 60. When we get such issues to be dealt with, with collections of changes in the law on popular protection, sometimes I get a little worried, the legislation is already very comprehensive and detailed, and it's difficult for individuals to find out if they are entitled to special benefits in a disease situation. Unfortunately, if you believe you have the opportunity to get some help, it is not always easy to know how to provide the documentation that is provided by law, regulation, guidelines and different practices around the country. Juss-Buss treats about 200 social security cases annually. These clients have already contacted the Social Security Agency and have experienced little help there. At the Social Security Agency, many have felt that they are being met with suspicion. We must not forget the purpose of social security legislation. It is to provide economic security, secure income and compensate for specific expenditure in difficult situations. The biggest problem is enough that many do not get the benefits they require. But if the legitimacy of social security is to be maintained, most people have to be sure that they get the benefits they are legally entitled to. The main changes in the proposal deal with new rules aimed at preventing and detecting social security abuse. The Committee as a whole considers it a priority task to combat social security abuse and believes that there is a need to strengthen sanctions against organised social-security abuse. The information requirements for requesting information from the social security must be grouped together in one provision. Overview is important, so there's a lot of consensus here. However, we have differing views on the access of persons and institutions subject to information obligations, including on their own initiative, to inform the social security of suspicion of the unjustified acquisition of social security funds. The majority, all except the government parties, cannot see the criteria on which such persons and institutions are to be based. With such complicated legislation, it is difficult to know what is important information and how such information should go. Drug abuse must be taken seriously, and we are afraid of many unjustified suspicions. It is then more important to ensure practical skills and good practice in the social security system. Furthermore, we stress that the responses to proven social security abuse must be dissuasive. A majority therefore opposes the Government's proposal for such an addition, while the minority assumes that clear guidelines can be drawn up on the types of information involved, thereby obtaining notices on well-founded suspicions. They also believe that such messages should not go to the local social security office. While everyone has hopes for the work and experience of social security abuse teams, the Committee has also discussed the role of Ecocrim in detecting social security abuse. A unanimous committee also proposes that guidelines be reviewed in order to facilitate the detection of social-security abuse by Ecocrime. The banks should be provided with information on confidentiality-related information when requested by the social security body in a specific case. A minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, would like here to state legally that such information should only be provided in specified individual cases. It is important that those who gradually know this right legislation a little better than others, for example: health professionals shall be deterred from misuse of this knowledge. Health professionals should now be excluded from the practice of social security for the account of unscrupulous or irregular practices. Such loss of rights will intensify the exercise and not only affect those who do not receive benefits because of incorrect health statements. The Party underlines that there must be no doubt about blame in such cases. The new rules we have now come up with will, as a whole, strengthen the ability of social security administration and, as a result, the potential of ecocrime to take on those who exploit the system consciously. It is important to build trust in the system, but it is also important for trust between the social security office and the client. The provision for the benefit of orthopaedic aids shifts to the logical chapter of the law and calls for contributions are collected under the legislation with a supplementary provision on the coercive basis for outlays. In exceptional cases, care allowance for a seriously ill child shall be available to both parents. A minor error in Section 19(6), third paragraph, is adjusted to ensure that the old-age pension is not curtailed before income above the free amount. Then comes a precise change of great value for war pensioners living abroad. Their possibility of free medical treatment should be allowed in the following directions and thus become clearer and more predictable. When we read headlines in the social security newspapers, such as: ‘To the South on social security’, therefore, it is uncertain whether such is a joke. Many of the war pensioners live legally with their pension abroad and are to be guaranteed free medical treatment where they live. A majority believe that health services such as home care and home care are part of the overall provision of healthcare and medical care at home. We assume that such an overall understanding will be used when new regulations are drawn up. Government parties point out that there is a self-payment for municipal care services and remuneration for hospital stays in this context. We are really aware of that, but that is for example. so special rules for payment in nursing homes that there's probably no husband abroad, so here the department probably understands that we want equal treatment compared to whether the war pensioner had received similar offers at home. So in the end, nurses who do little work are supposed to be free of being a member of the nursing pension scheme. Now this rule becomes clear, but I just hope that it leads to more nurses working to secure a useful pension. On this basis, I recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e448	Unfortunately, it has proved necessary to intensify efforts to detect social security abuse. Checks have revealed that we have social security abuse of such a size that it can help to weaken the trust that people should have in popular security, and reduce the possibility of funding welfare schemes for those who have a real need. This is a form of crime that must not be easily addressed. Sometimes you can get the feeling that some people are taking money more easily in an unfair way from the community than from private people. It can even be considered smart. But if you subpoena 50 000 kroner in a private company or you receive 50 000 kroner unfairly from the social security office, you are an equally large basement. Public authorities and agencies must therefore have the necessary means to detect social-security abuse, whether it is the full-time black-and-white-collar person receiving daily allowances or organised social-security abuse on a large scale with branches to the rest of the world. An effective system to tackle social security abusers will also have a preventative effect. It is therefore positive that the Government will go to work offensively to detect social security abuse, among other things. by asking the Grand Duchy to make changes to the laws which make it possible to prevent and detect social security abuse. The Government has made proposals in four areas, and the entire Committee joins the Government's proposals in three of the areas: the wish for the compilation of information obligations, the introduction of information obligations for banks, and the extension of the right to exclude treatment staff from the practice on behalf of the social security. With regard to the introduction of information obligations for banks, there is no reason for banks to maintain their special position vis-à-vis other financial institutions, such as banks. the insurance corporations. The proposal makes it clear which restrictions relate to the information that banks can be required to provide, and therefore the Government parties do not support the proposals of the Progress Party and the SV to regulate this in the law itself. Unfortunately, with regard to the proposal to extend access to the exclusion of treatment staff from the practice of social security, this has proved necessary. Several major cases of social security fraud have been identified in collaboration between doctor and patient. In return for payment, patients have received help from the doctor to, among others. achieving unfair long-term health messages and disability benefits. In these days the media mention a matter of a doctor from Buskerud who sells medical messages on a large scale from a hotel room in Oslo. In the fourth area, the Government has proposed changes in order to bring about the death of social security abuse, it has not succeeded in bringing together a majority in the Committee. Not allowing the persons and institutions required by the social security system to do so on their own initiative, without prejudice to professional secrecy, does not mean that an important means of making use of social security abusers is not used. It is a paradox that the same information that may be required cannot be provided on its own initiative. Persons who see clear indications and have well-founded suspicions of crime shall continue to be refused notification. In other crimes, most of us feel a moral obligation to report. For example, you find out. shop-knocking, there would be few people who did not think it was appropriate to report it to the storekeeper. However, in the case of the nascent of Community funds, individuals and institutions shall be forced to close their eyes even if, in their opinion, offences are committed of both a comprehensive and organised nature. Unfortunately, this helps to build up under the notion that theft of Community funds is not as serious as other crimes. The fear that this might happen randomly and may be misused is not shared by the government parties. I have little faith that this proposal would have led to a red-hot line between, for example, an employee of the local savings bank and the social security fund. On the contrary, I believe that the threshold for reporting a suspected crime will be very high, just for fear of reporting someone who has not committed a crime. It is also important to clarify that this is not an obligation to disclose but a right, and that persons and institutions do not risk sanctions if they do not report in cases where they should have seen evidence of crime. In addition, it shall not be notified to the local social security office, but to the county social security offices or to the social security abuse teams. Furthermore, the role of the social security system will be to reveal and identify social security abuse, while the task of the police is to investigate the case itself. Although the consultation opinions have expressed scepticism for the introduction of an information opportunity, it is worth noting that, following an overall assessment, the main organisation of the financial industry will not oppose the proposal. These objections are balanced by the possibility of taking fraudsters and abusers of Community funds. However, while there is no substitute for the right to provide information, it would be a strength for the work of taking social-security abusers if Ecocrim could have the opportunity to reveal this type of crime more easily. Therefore, there is a unanimous committee that asks the Government to review the Ecocrim guidelines in order to achieve this. If this review could also lead to more flexible cooperation between Ecocrim and the social security system, there would be further progress. Then I will finally be presented with the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party, which is included on page 7 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e477	The representative Heieren Hundhammer has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e480	Ot. pp. No 60 takes into account some changes in different laws. But it turned out early that the proposals for amendments made in the People's Security Act created the big debate in the committee. It is primarily about proposals for changes in order to better and more effectively detect social-security abuse. All parties have shown, through their comments in the setting, that they want to improve their social security system in order to identify possible social security abuse. Drug abuse is unlawful in acquiring taxpayers’ money. This is per. the definition of a criminal offence that is important to be identified, particularly when one also sees the foreseeable increase in social security payments that have taken place in recent years. It is also worth noting that these are difficult cases to detect. It is therefore necessary to provide the social security system with a number of instruments to detect as much of this type of criminal activity as possible. It is against this background that most of the Government’s proposals for amendments are implemented by the Government, but with the exception of the area of granting to persons and institutions who may be required to provide information to the social security system on suspicion of unjustified acquisition of social security funds on their own initiative and without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. As the Progress Party sees it, this will be a major step towards the legal certainty of individuals, while at the same time it will be able to open up and lead a number of people to an unjustified suspicion, due to a lack of competence in social security legislation when those persons have no knowledge of what is behind the individual's case. As the Progress Party sees it, this would be considered to be an undesirable ‘given paragraph’, which would in the next round lead to increased consumption of taxpayers’ funds for proceedings in the event of unjustified suspicion. In this respect, it is important to note that serious economic crime should in any case be reported to Ecocrim. It is Ecocrime that is the right body to investigate these kinds of cases. With regard to the extension of access to exclusion of treatment staff from the practice of social security, the Progress Party will stress that in cases where there is no doubt about the medical responsibility, intensified penalties must only be applied and that the patient’s possible responsibilities must not affect the activities of the doctor. The representative Heieren Hundhammer thought it was broken that he was not given this right to information about the social security system. This is a very difficult matter – I think the Council of State will also be able to confirm – because here we are talking about legal certainty, and we are talking about the kind of competence that each person who works in the financial institutions should have. You also talk about who's going to investigate a criminal act. The point of progress is at least quite clear in this area: it is Ecocrime that is the research piece in this. We do not want you to be completely voluntary, without any responsibility and in any case can report something that you think can be social security abuse. It is a serious interference with the legal certainty of the individual. It is a pleasure, then, to have a majority say that we should look at the instruments for, among other things. Ecocrime in the context of being able to cooperate with the social security system. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e497	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e500	There are many things related to the changes made to the Law on Social Security that the Committee agrees on. It's natural to focus on the fields where you don't agree. The other speakers have done that, and I will. With regard to the right of access to information on its own economy and the right of access to banks, it raises questions about the personal integrity of individuals measured against the right of society to transparency in order to safeguard the common interests of the community. In a number of areas, we see that there may be difficult balances. I'm going to think that most of us will have clear thoughts about the right to privacy when you go to see a doctor. It is believed that the information you provide should be materially information that remains between yourself and health professionals and is not provided to third parties without their consent. Then you can see how, in different ways, you regulate regulations that give access to information yet, and that in a common understanding in society you agree that you should be able to deliver. When you look at it in relation to your doctor, there will be information about infectious diseases if you do not have proper behaviour that prevents others from getting sick. Or it may be in relation to children's rights, that child protection should be familiar with the neglect or abuse of children, even where you do not want the doctor to go further with the information. There will be situations in which the doctor will be able to invoke emergency rights, and where information will be passed on. But we see how strict it is regulated, and we want to understand it even in situations where we are with health professionals, because we feel that we need protection and confidentiality in order to publish information. I'll think like that when I go to the bank. Many of the questions raised by the case handler will require relatively personal information in a given situation because one depends on the economy in order to realize values that mean much to one’s self and one’s closest. This also means that you have a need to regulate the personal sphere. The situation you face when you say that certain groups in society, because they depend on public services, don't have the same right to protection, is a dangerous line to go into. What the government has proposed here is a line like that that SV thinks is a dangerous line. One thing is that, under given conditions, the social security system must be entitled to receive information if there is a legitimate reason to suspect social security abuse. But I'm recording that the majority here is willing to go into terms that are not precise in relation to the fact that there should be such a legitimate suspicion. I am pleased that the SV and the Progress Party see this as being similar, but I am not happy that the majority does not see it as such. And you should be very careful about that. There may be a risk of developing a practice in which the social security system almost collects a number of information which is considered to be personal, where it is initially unnecessary to collect it. If you were to assume that the various banks, because they had excessive bank officials, would, on their own, start supplying information to the social security system, you're completely out of business. Then you can start to think of exactly the same regime related to a doctor or a health professional, because you think there will be situations where the obligation of professional secrecy should not be an obstacle, and then you should think that it will be a responsibility for the individual based on personal judgement. This cannot be the case for individual legal protection. In this way, it may not be appropriate to develop a society dedicated to the care of the individual as an individual with requirements for protection. That's why it's very positive that the government is standing alone on the very concrete proposal. The majority of the social committee has realized that it is going too far and does not support the Government here. It also shows that the processes carried out by the Storting in the various expert committees are real processes in which one can be influenced by external input from persons or groups – professional groups and others – notions that show that the matter has several sides and that allow one to have a different outcome from that initially envisaged by the Government. Therefore, SV is satisfied that one does not go into such a solution as the Government had offered, and that the right is not granted to the banks. However, we are not happy that there is no more precision in the limits on the information to be obtained and the conditions for obtaining the information. We believe, however, that the result obtained here from the Social Committee is better than that of the Government when the matter was brought before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e520	There has been a great deal of concern about the proposal to amend the law on social protection in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and detection of social-security abuse. All parties believe that combating social security abuse is a priority task, but it has not been easy to agree on the instruments. The Christian People's Party sees it as a major improvement that banks are now treated as equivalent to other financial institutions and given information obligations to the social security system in dealing with specific matters concerning persons who either require or receive social security benefits. It is difficult to understand the proposal that information rights should also be granted to the institutions with information obligations, not to obtain a majority in the Committee. The majority will not allow an employee, on his own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, to be able to inform the social security system if he has a well-founded suspicion of social security abuse. Examples include regular or large transfers to the account while regularly crediting social security payments to the same account. The employee cannot tell us about it even if he has a suspicion of undeclared work. The Christian People's Party considers it unreasonable that an employee should not have this opportunity to report to the Social Security Court. We believe that clear guidelines should be developed on what type of information and on what issues it may be relevant for institutions and individuals to take advantage of this opportunity to inform. Of course, employees shall not conduct investigations to identify social security abusers. Social security is part of the Community's resources. The confidence and generalisation of public confidence depend on the provision of benefits in line with the legislation established and on the non-abuse of the scheme. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of organized abuse. This must be stopped. The fear that employees will hunt for social security, I think, is very excessive. It must then be unproblematic to be checked if you have clean flour in your bag. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a joint committee opens up so that Ecocrim can more easily detect social security abuse. Today, bankers suspected of money laundering must notify Økokrim. This obligation is limited to major cases with a penalty framework of more than six months. My impression is that doctors spend a lot of time building certificates for the social security system so that each person gets the right benefits. I understand that they feel that the proposal can dampen the confidentiality and trust of patients. For the Christian People's Party, however, the need to get social abuse to life is the greatest. It is worrying that several of the treatment providers have been wrongly reimbursed in the range of 2 to 4 million. kr. An overall committee intensifies the sanctions provisions of the Law on Social Security so that health professionals can be excluded from social security practices for a shorter or longer period of time. Reimbursement directly to treatment providers must continue to be based on trust. Patients and social security recipients must be confident that they will receive the right benefits from popular security. If we are to maintain confidence in the fear of the people and in the management of the Community's resources, we must ensure that the funds do not go astray.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e537	Ot. pp. No 60 addresses several aspects in different contexts in the context of legislative changes. But what it has become most focused on is limiting – or preventing – social security abuse. It is important that a priority should be given to combating social security abuse, also in order to maintain the legitimacy of social security benefits in the population, and it is important that the social security system has the means to obtain the necessary information. However, when the Department here proposes that access be given to the social security system on its own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, the majority of the Committee would like to put a foot down. We're afraid that the proposal from the department here also disclaims some of its responsibilities, and that it might make it easier for the social security system to say that we didn't get any information about this. It must be right that the social security system itself should follow as closely as possible - as is currently possible - that personnel, institutions and individuals should be required to provide information when there is a reasonable suspicion that errors are in the process of happening or have occurred. There are certain privacy requirements and certain confidentiality requirements and rules of the game which would have made the proposal of the Ministry problematic, and it has also been pointed out by all the hearing bodies which have expressed scepticism for this proposal. I think it's important for the system that you have a burden when you're going out with information that lies in completely different areas. The representative of Ballo was involved in this by saying that this is a matter where privacy and privacy are set up against the needs of society for control, and that is right. Of course, society needs follow-up to the legitimacy of social systems and to the fair use and practice of social systems. But to impose such information on individuals and institutions on their own initiative, however, it is to go too far, in the opinion of the Centre Party. The introduction of information obligations for banks, on the other hand, seems correct — that the social security system should be able to oblige banks to provide information. I do not share Mr Ballo's view on this issue. It is not that banks should be informed on their own initiative either. It is such that the bank can be required to disclose information, and then I believe that it is up to the social security system to limit this – to be so precise as to what information you should have out, that it does not involve the general opening up of the total economy of individuals when you also enter the banking system. Also included in the proposal is part on penalties for the use of exclusion opportunities for treatment staff who practise for the sake of social security. It is important here to clarify that the doctors or other health professionals who have problems here should be able to take their responsibilities, but that they should not be subjected to penalties if the patient or the social security user is proven to have been misusing social security. It is a clarification that, among other things, The Department has granted and to which the Committee subscribes. Then we are happy that there will be a change in the People's Security Act Chapter 5 and Chapter 10 in the case of orthopaedic aids. We are also very pleased with the clarification of the rules on care for seriously ill children – it is important here to get the clarifications made in the proposition. We also think it is good that we have regulations on war pensioners living abroad, and their need for help and support from Norway. 15 pst. by the non-refugees living abroad, and these must be followed up — on the basis of the same rules of play that apply in Norway, as was the case in the case of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e553	Abuse and attempts to lure money from popular or other social systems are unacceptable. It weakens confidence in the arrangements and the opportunities to provide help to those who need it. In recent times, widespread and organised misuse of social security funds has been detected. The government is committed to facilitating the possibility for the social security system to detect such cases where criminal environments without scruples are engaged in organised and systematic fraud in order to improperly acquire funds from the social systems of the population. This is a new and worrying trend. Combating social security abuse is a priority task for the social security system, and it is provided with funds for this work in the 2002 budget. Regional abuse teams have been established to investigate abuse cases. The control procedures have been improved, including: through the extension of the use of an inspector in the case of suspected false or incorrect medical statements, and the check has been reinforced in relation to beneficiaries abroad. In addition to the administrative control measures put in place, some legislative changes are needed to prevent and detect social security abuse. It is essential that we ensure confidence in popular security. With the legislative proposals, we want to make it harder for criminals to acquire money from the community. The legislative changes could also have a preventive effect. The social security system is entirely dependent on the most relevant information to achieve an effective response to social security abuse. In order to ensure better access to such information, thereby limiting social security abuse, the Government, as it is well known, has proposed that banks, like insurance companies, etc. must be required to provide information to the social security system, to provide information to persons and institutions, to enable them to inform the social security system on their own initiative without prejudice to professional secrecy, and to extend the freedom to exclude treatment staff from working for the sake of social security. In my opinion, it is necessary to limit the possibilities of misusing public funds as much as possible. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee fully subscribes to most of the proposals aimed at limiting social security abuse. On the other hand, I am concerned that there is no majority in favour of the proposal that persons and institutions who can be required to provide information to the social security system should also be able to provide information on their own initiative. In my opinion, such access would enable me to detect several cases of social security abuse or to detect abuse in the past. This is a right of information – not an obligation to provide information. The consequences of the majority view are that it is prohibited for employees of banks to proceed with justified suspicions of criminal offences related to the misuse of social security funds. I fear that this will result in some cases of social security abuse not being discovered, or discovered late. In many cases, the social security system will not be provided with information that strongly indicates social security abuse, as information can only be provided on demand. It is known that banks and insurance companies often have information about economic transactions that indicate social security abuse, without the information being passed on to the social security system because of professional secrecy. This may be information that the social security system will not now be aware of, nor will it be able to reveal. I am concerned that such information cannot be given to the social security system as soon as possible, and it is difficult to understand the majority's objections. Nor can I understand that there is any reason to protect people involved in organised social security abuse. After all, banks like to discover suspicious circumstances – not the social security system. Plural Pronunciation: «It must be...... the task of the social security body to have sound management and, where appropriate, control of social security payments.» In the case of organised social security abuse, normal control is not sufficient. Here, the social security system needs information to know where to put surveys. As is well known, there are currently also limitations on the possibility for Ecocrim to detect social security abuse. I see that the Committee understands this issue and that there is a concern that Ecocrim should be more closely involved in issues relating to social security abuse. I'll follow this up quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e583	Having heard the statements of the Council of State, it is quite clear that she has misunderstood the majority of the Committee's comments on the possibility of informing the social security system on her own initiative. The council stated in its statement that she could see no reason for us to protect the criminals. It is quite obvious that she then completely misunderstood the comments, both the wording and the contents of them. The Committee mentions this with the legal certainty of individual human beings. It mentions what goes on the competence of those who are there – competence in how social security works, what lies behind the individual social security case. But the Council of State only talks about she cannot understand the majority's position on this matter, or even think it is regrettable, because she does not want to protect the criminals. No, that's exactly what the majority doesn't want to do either. But we want to protect people from being exposed to unjustified suspicions and being put under investigation of the social security system because a person reports a matter that may be in doubt – justified or unjustified – and you start the milling process in that case. After what I heard from the post of the Council of State, it might seem that this is a scheme that is being removed. Well, it's always been like that. It's just that you don't introduce this right now. That's not how fewer cases are revealed because we don't want to make this change now, because that hasn't been a change. You want to open up a new way of working by exempting individual employees from the obligation of professional secrecy. I would like to ask the Council of State: has the Council of State really misunderstood so fundamentally that she believes that we want to protect the criminal, while the majority in the Committee and in this Chamber actually take into account the legal certainty and privacy of the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e594	The answer is no, I don't think I've misunderstood. With regard to privacy and professional secrecy, the measures proposed are, in the Government’s view, necessary in order to be able to effectively organise the misuse of social security funds. The Law on Social Security has very strict provisions on professional secrecy in paragraphs 21 to 9, and they are stricter than those resulting from the administrative provisions. The social security system also has extensive experience in dealing with this sensitive information, so that there is no reason to fear that information should in any way be balanced as a result of the legislative changes proposed by the Government. I don't think I've misunderstood. I understand that the balance between legal certainty for individuals on the one hand and the ability to detect social security abuse on the other is difficult. We're facing some new and serious challenges – it's organized, it's systematic, it's over time, and it's networks. It's important that we have an upsurge in the welfare systems of the population, and that this is a priority task. Of course, I will deal with what is the committee's majority position, and base it on the further work. But I'm concerned that the majority will not agree that it will be prohibited for bank employees and the like to proceed with justified suspicions of social security abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e607	It's like we have different tasks in this society that are carried out by different agencies and agencies. And to me it was quite new that the social security system should have as its overall task to expose fraud, cheating or to operate as a police authority or investigation authority. However, I note that the Minister of Social Affairs in his reply to the Workers' Party's Group dated 24 May 2002 writes: ‘In this context, I would like to stress that the role of the social security system is primarily to reveal/identify social security abuse.’ Does the Council of State mean what she is saying here, that the task of the social security system should be first and foremost? What I and SV have always seen as a very central task for the social security system is to ensure the right performance for the right person, and not least as a service body for the individual, to take care of the interests of the individual in such a way that you get the benefits you need. But here the council is turning it all over its head. These are not the tasks that the social security system should primarily carry out. First of all — to quote the Council of State — the role of the social security system is to reveal and identify social security abuse. It is clear that if you perceive that the social security system has that as its main task, you will very quickly get there that much of what Ecocrim does today, instead, should be taken care of by the social security system. But that's not going to be true, because we've never realized that the social security budget has that as its main task. I would like to hear the Council of State make it clear that she can accept the wording contained in that letter – that the social security system should have it as its primary task.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e625	When the representative is quoting from the answer, it would have been good to have heard the question as well, because the answer follows a question, and according to it, it was quite right to say that it is primarily the task of the Swedish National Agency to focus on what is going on the abuse part. But I'm going to give Ballo the right thing to do – the overarching task of the Rikstrøgdeverket is, of course, to ensure some of the right benefits in relation to the situation. But the Swedish Social Security Agency also has a priority and overall task in relation to looking at social security abuse. It is clear that the social security system does not conduct an investigation but investigates cases where there is reason to believe that people receive or try to obtain social security benefits improperly. There is the social security system at the heart of it, necessarily in this work against social security abuse. There is every reason to believe that social security abuse must initially be revealed by the social security system itself. Police will rarely be contacted until abuse is either revealed or likely. Therefore, it is also important to facilitate the monitoring and detection of such conditions by making it easier for the social security system. I can also mention, since this is a priority task for the social security system, that in 2001 233 cases were reported to the police after suspicion of social security abuse – an increase of 93 cases from 2000. During the first four months of the year, 85 cases have been reported. But when it comes to answering the question, I think I've taken it initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e634	I want to follow up a little bit on this question of war disability and the arrangement for those who are abroad. A note from the government fraction states that the representatives «of the Right and Christian People's Party do not understand the Ministry's proposal to develop an overall offer for war pensioners with needs for care abroad». What is the intention of the majority here, based on the premises at least I've gone into it with, is that in Norway we have offers of home care, home care, nursing places, care pay, etc. which allows people to function at different levels. These schemes are strongly subsidized by public authorities, which means that there is a relatively low proportion of self-employed persons. For those who are abroad, this will show up in a different way, and there is a question of whether the ministry believes that these offers should be so equivalent and equally basic as to allow one to go in and get reimbursement for some of these care services, so that there will be an equivalence in relation to the supply in Norway. Then this is a matter that goes beyond purely medical treatment and hospitalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e641	I note that the Committee agrees with the proposal which allows the Ministry to draw up a regulation on reimbursement of medical expenses in line with current practice in this area. The majority of the Committee points out that health services such as home services, health care provision, etc. is an important part of the overall provision of health and medical treatment in this country and assumes that the department will also use such an overall understanding when new regulations on medical treatment are developed in this area. I take note of the majority's opinion and will follow it up as far as possible. However, I just need to remind you of the limitations of military retirement, because there is only expenditure on medical treatment – not on care – that needs to be covered. Furthermore, it is primarily the same expenditure as that covered by military retirement in this country, which can also be covered in the rest of the world. But I still understand the majority so that you agree that there is the current law and practice to be regulated, as the Ministry's proposal also states.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e648	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e651	With regard to the detection of social security abuse that has occurred, I am afraid that it is only the top of the iceberg. In order to continue to intensify checks on the part of the social security system and the department, inter alia: through the better tools we have given them today to reveal social security abuse, I think – or am I afraid – it might be more correct to say – that we are going to see great revelations about social security abuse. I also think we're going to find out that we might have been a little too naive in our fight against abuse, especially in terms of the form and extent of the abuse. Then I come back to this which has to do with the right to provide information. I'm surprised that a majority has so little faith in those who work in institutions, and individuals, that you think they're as big a bunch of sluggish anchors as it sounds. I generally have much greater confidence in people, I have much greater confidence that people are able to assess what is a well-founded suspicion, and what is not. In addition, government parties have asked the Ministry to develop clear guidelines so that employees can see more easily what to react to and what not to respond to. I have so much faith both in the employees of the various institutions and in the social security system that I am not afraid that this will run smoothly. The dry matter is used to treating and keeping sensitive information, so that there will be no witching if a report is received that proved to be unfounded. I'm surprised, perhaps especially about the Advancement Party, which in all other contexts is so careful to strike down all kinds of crime, but which in this kind of case is not willing to accept the most obvious means of defeating criminals. And this is not just about an individual who may have hooked up a few thousand more – although serious enough – but it is probably about highly organised activities, which also do not stop at the borders of Norway. It also underlines what I said in my post instead, that you can get the impression that you can see more easily that people are stealing from the community's funds than that you are unfairly acquiring money from private people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e660	I had to think a little bit about it when I sat in my seat, because I started to wonder if the representative Heieren Hundhammer has been here today while we've been discussing it. It is quite clear that the representative has not got what has been the reason for the majority. The representative speaks of us looking at those who work in financial institutions, like slab bags. I haven't listened to the husband to hesitate! We have talked about trying to ensure privacy. We've talked about people's fear being a very advanced area. In fact, there are not many people in this country who are able to cope with the fear of the people and its premises well enough. What this case is about is that those who sit in a financial institution, on their own suspicion – because it is not about whether the state council was in this place, when she spoke of justified suspicion – can report anything in relation to this type of transaction, without any risk of reaction. In other words, if the person is suspected – not due to suspicion, because then we know that there is something behind it – that there is something wrong with this transaction, you can report and get an appliance in the social security fund to start looking at this, and then, as I was in my first post, you get to use the taxpayers' funds just to follow it up. And with regard to what the representative Heieren Hundhammer was about in terms of organized crime that does not stop at the borders of Norway, we are all interested in revealing it. But what we're not interested in is going over equal and making sure that a number of people who are completely innocent are affected as a result. That's what we're trying to do. It seems that the government parties are not able to take this inward, that it is actually the privacy you're trying to preserve. And in terms of the criminal acts, it's actually a job for the investigation authorities. It's actually a job for Ecocrim. That is also the point of the Committee's proposal to look at the Ecocrim guidelines and their way of working, precisely in order to achieve that cooperation. The social security system is not a charge force. Nor does the social security system have an investigative role in criminal acts in Norway. I think we're mixing the cards a little bit, especially with regard to the majority's view on this matter, because we actually want to protect those who can get into problems entirely innocent due to being able to report anything. That's what the matter is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e668	The President would point out that terms such as'slabskins' and'stabs' are still not good parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e671	I just have to say that I did not say «slabbedask», but «sladrank».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e678	It was addressed to the representative Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e681	I took the word as a response to what Beate Heieren Hundhammer here said. After all, we have had the same reasoning as the Progress Party in the vote, and we also agree with them on amendments to the rights of the social security fund and the premises on which information can be obtained. I think it's interesting to reflect on a consideration that goes on the one hand thinking that it's just the top of an iceberg you see in terms of social security in general, as to how much it might possibly cheat and cheat and swindle, and how much that crime might have. There I think both Beate Heieren Hundhammer and I, when we think about it, have to say that we really don't know that much about it, but it's probably gotten a significant amount. This is about a number of bridged vessels, to a extent that must be much larger than what you know to date. On the other hand, there is confidence in financial institutions, in employees in the social security office, and it is also underlined that trust. You say you have the confidence that they'll do it like that. What I'm thinking about that is that the people's wisdom must be fairly equally distributed. Who does things they shouldn't do is quite equally divided. It is not that because you can be defined as a recipient of social security benefits, you act as very few others would expect to commit – for that matter, employees of a social security office or a financial institution. That means that Beate Heieren Hundhammer, in my opinion and in the opinion of SV, should do exactly the same thing, namely to ask: is it reasonable to go so far towards people who might be completely innocent, as to what they should have to provide from personal data, or is it not reasonable? One can very quickly have a conflict of interest between a bank employee and a social security beneficiary who has nothing to do with abuse, but who has to do with the bank's own interests as to whom to borrow funds or not. And when it comes to stimulating a system in which one should start to supply such information at one's own expense, I actually thought that the Right would also be concerned with privacy. In the case of the abuse itself, in the case of the legitimate suspicion of abuse, or the inappropriate use of social security funds, we in SV are also very concerned that the use of these means should be targeted and that the appropriate authorities should be used to reveal this. But there I would say, in line with what Mr Nesvik said, that the social security system is a little appropriate in this respect. The social security system is not a police authority to carry out a large-scale investigation. We have Ecocrime that has to perform just such functions. We have even put forward a proposal that the whole committee is behind on how to better manage it under the auspices of Ecocrim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e692	Neither personal form nor collective time use suggests that I should take the floor now, but I think the debate is taking a little off. I am not so very happy with all the characteristics and names that you are now starting to use on staff and professionals. I just have to remind you of a term such as the ‘giver’ paragraph that has been used in articles today. Personally, I do not want to include it in a comment in the setting that I have joined, so I think we now have to limit ourselves a little and get the right proportions on this. A part of the staff that we are now discussing is competent or not, is, after all, represented by, among other things. Consulting bodies such as the Chief Financial Institution, the Sparebank Association, the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Psychological Association and the Norwegian Physiotherapéuters Association. These have made it more or less clear, in consultation submissions, that they are sceptical of the arrangements proposed in the consultation note and also presented in the Odelstungsproposition. It has been consulted by the Committee itself through the consultations carried out by the Committee. It is therefore sceptical to practice the scheme proposed by the Ministry. It must mean that it is not just the bad faith of the majority in these personnel that makes us skeptical of this system. Furthermore, a unanimous committee is calling for the role of Ecocrim in this scheme to be explored and, where appropriate, reinforced so that this can be done in the right place and by the appropriate body.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e701	It was Olav Gunnar Ballo's posts that made me take the floor, because here he came up with the more philosophical considerations about how the sense was divided into society, and therefore also how crime was divided into society. However, the point of the government’s work in detecting social security abuse is primarily related to the use of social security benefits as part of organised crime in gross forms. As Harald T. Nesvik stressed, social security rules and social security systems are very complicated. For the vast majority of people, it will not be possible to see sneeze in relation to this, either to a bank employee or to someone working in another financial institution. But it's only when it gets dimensions, for example. in relation to other organised crime, that this will be evident. It is therefore surprising that the majority here do not want to facilitate this kind of detection, because it will also have meaning over other crimes. It is true, as has been pointed out here, that some hearing bodies have been sceptical about this change, but it is also worth noting that, after an overall assessment of the proposal, the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation, which was initially sceptical, still recommends it, is precisely because the objections are balanced by the possibilities of taking fraudsters and abusers of Community funds. That's what I think the majority should remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e710	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[See page 349]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e726	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e742	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies following the insertion of members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e751	Xenotransplantation is defined as the transfer of biological material in the form of living cells, tissues and entire organs from animals to humans. Heart flaps, veins and other material from animals that have undergone a number of processes to destroy potential sources of infection that may cause infection are excluded from the definition. The motivation for using animal organs as transplants for patients is the growing lack of organs. For many patients, transplantation is the only treatment option that improves quality of life and prolongs life. According to the Organ Donation Foundation, 291 organ transplants were performed in Norway last year. That's the highest number ever. Yet, 34 people died in line waiting for a new organ. By the turn of the year, more than 200 patients were on the waiting list. It is very positive that the Foundation Organ Donation has launched donor cards in Norway this spring. We should all think carefully about whether we will give away our own organs when we ourselves no longer need them. I think most of us would have agreed to receive one organ from another if it could save one's life. After the first successful kidney transplant between humans was performed in 1954, other organs such as the heart, liver, lung, pancreas, and cornea have been transplanted with very good results for the recipients. By deliberately choosing to sign donor cards, you can be with and save lives in the future. Trials have shown that pigs are the most relevant clinical transplant animal, as pig anatomy is similar to that of humans. Norway has a temporary ban on xenotransplantation until 1 January 2003. A sample set up by the Minister of Health in 1999 recommended that this ban be lifted. The case has been consulted, and 38 out of 47 opinions support the sample. Many are concerned with the risk of transmission. Transplanting of animal organs not only gives hope of healing, it also creates fear of repulsiveness, of infection and transmission of new diseases from animals to humans. ‘This is a risk not only to the patient itself or the close environment of the patient, but to society as a whole’ is stated in the Biotechnology Consultation Opinion. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has recommended the Ministerial Committee to work towards a temporary ban on xenotransplantation in all Member States and to take steps to make this ban global. A working group set up by the Council of Europe develops guidelines for the use of xenotransplantation. Final clearance will be available not earlier than the end of the year. In this context, the Government wishes to extend the temporary ban until 1 January 2005 to allow time for the evaluation of the recommendations of the panel, the consultation opinions and the Council of Europe final guidelines. A majority of the committee, the members of the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, support this. An overall committee wants to establish an interim organ that is involved in the rapid development of global xenotransplantation. The United States is perhaps the country most advanced in research in this area. It is important that one is up - to - date with the possibilities that can help patients to live longer and better. The Workers' Party asks the Government to draw up its own bill on xeno transplantation as soon as possible. The Progress Party supports the majority of the Xeno-transplant committee that wants such transplants to be allowed in Norway from 1 January 2003 and that this is regulated by its own law. I expect that they themselves argue for their proposals. The Christian People's Party wants one not to be hasty, and we are voting for an extension of the temporary ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e779	The lack of organs for transplantation is an international problem, and the possibility of organ and tissue transfer from animals to humans has been discussed in many countries and in several international organisations in recent years. It is not to hide that this is a vulnerable theme for many. It must mean that we should deal with this with great respect – also for each other’s views. Too many xenotransplants will also have an ethical side. It is highlighted in the proposition that only a few years ago it was considered an impossibility to transfer live biological material from animals to humans. However, the development of immunology, pharmacology and genetic engineering has improved the ability to achieve successful xenotransplants. TV shows have been shown on how pig cells should replace corrupted brain cells and improve communication in people who are brain-damaged. I think we're going to expect this to be far ahead of time, and we're going to be careful to create too much expectations. Pig cells are long enough to replace care, care and rehabilitation. But many are very pleased that research is taking place, considering the future recovery of serious suffering. And it can sometimes be nice to discuss matters that have a slightly longer perspective than the budget year. In the case of xenotransplantation, many are concerned with the risk of transmission of infection, as the rapporteur pointed out. This is apparent from the consultation opinions referred to in the proposal. However, most people agree that by implementing the so-called precautionary principle, it would be wise to gradually allow testing. The working party shall be composed of the majority of the Committee which has taken the view that the tissue of the products to be used has undergone a number of processes with a view to destroying possible sources of infection. The Labour Party also belongs to the majority of the Committee which believes that once development has come so far in other countries, there is a need to establish an interim organ responsible for monitoring developments in xenotransplantation. The Labour Party is also concerned that Norway should keep pace with Europe on this issue. That is why we have put forward a proposal asking the Government to draw up its own bill on xeno transplantation as soon as possible. Although this proposal does not receive the consent of a majority, I would nevertheless like to address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e796	Gunn Olsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e799	Transfer of biological material in the form of living cells, tissues and whole organs from animals to humans I personally believe is more of a matter of emotion than an ethical problem. However, up to our days, Xenotransplantation has caused a safety problem, since it has not been possible to guarantee that transplantation of tissues and cells from animals cannot also transmit infectious disease to people who can cause both short-term and long-term health problems. In the United States, where most research has been carried out in this field, xenotransplantation has been used in the treatment of liver damage and liver defects. An additional safety that is now being practised in the United States is that before transplantation, the animal organ is covered by a membrane that makes penetration of both viruses and bacteria impossible. A ministerial sample, the so-called Xenotransplantation sample, decreased on 3 December 1999 to assess the transfer of live biological material from animals to humans, provided a split position where the majority recommended that xenotransplant be authorised in Norway from 1 January 2003. The same sample also proposed that xenotransplantation be regulated in a separate law, and the sample also proposed the creation of a separate specific xenotransplantation topic that would follow developments internationally and advise the ministry on the matter. The committee also suggested that patients with xenotransplants should be included in a separate patient register with their own xenobank. It is important to note that the suspension of the Xenotransplantation committee has been at the hearing, and a total of 38 out of 47 institutions have issued opinions and recommended the authorisation of xenotransplantation in Norway from January 2003, as opposed to the Government which will maintain the ban on xenotransplantation until 2005. The Progress Party believes that Norwegian patients must be given this opportunity from 2003 onwards, and the Progress Party will therefore vote against the Government's proposal to amend Section 15. We are all aware that Norway also has a significant lack of organs for transplantation, and it would be entirely wrong, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to deprive Norwegian patients with life-threatening diseases of the possibility of receiving organs from animals when this is both ethically and medically considered appropriate from the point of view of international research and practice. In my opinion, it cannot be right for Odelstinget to deprive seriously ill people who need organ transplantation, the opportunity now offered by xenotransplantation. It should be left to the individual patient to make the choice between having animal organs fed to save his life or not. In my opinion, the Norwegian authorities and Norwegian politicians should not take this choice from the individual patient. Norway must also be able to follow developments and the Norwegian health system must be able to carry out these transplants as early as 2003 in line with other transplant surgery. Politicians should not judge the individual's own ethical choices in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e818	In one case earlier today, we had a discussion about the consideration of individual individuals versus the consideration of society in which I stressed in my post SV's view, namely that there are situations where individual rights are clearly to be respected in such a way that there will be social considerations that will be subordinate to it. In my view and SV's view, this case is an example of exactly one of the opposite issues. I record that the head of the committee, John I. Alvheim, here, as often as otherwise in the case of the Advancement Party, very much emphasizes the individual's rights and points out that society should be subjugated in a way. But then it's kind of important to take over the recognition that you have to have in terms of animal infection. It's not basically, as I see it, the central thing about ethics here that becomes problematic, that is, you should have a heart from a pig, an animal, and not from a human individual, but it's the enormous risk you run in a society if you put xenotransplant in a system without knowing the consequences of it in advance. Thus, over time, the individual who was to be protected through the transplant, as well as the family of that individual and other individual in the same society, could also be affected. We know from the research that has been carried out in a number of areas, that there are cross-infections of viruses, of bacteria, of different micro-organisms from animals to humans. It has been speculated whether HIV infection is initially due to a mutation from a rhesus monkey in Africa. Creutzfeldt Jacob's disease was at first thought not to have crossed between animals and humans, but it was different, and then one has to recognise it in terms of considerable protection in order to prevent infection even in relation to humans. We see scrapie in sheep, we see foot-and-mouth disease, and it also shows up other diseases that may initially appear species-specific, where one has a protection through the immune system also in humans, and where one is protected because these are particles or organisms that normally do not reach the bloodstream. But if you're going to think that you're starting to transplant organs from animals without having reasonable good or even a full overview of the consequences of it, and then based on the organism getting a spread of infection from these micro-organisms, then it can't be as the Progress Party here sketches, namely that it was the concern of the individual who should be superior. There's a way to think about it socially in terms of the spread of infection and the protection of individuals who will be completely insane, because that means that not only the individual over time is affected by that infection, but the whole society in which the individual is in. And that is not the way to apply a precautionary principle to take account of health developments in society. One has to take inwards that science cannot have a sloppy view of this, one has to step-by-step and on the basis of a precautionary principle to allow the regulatory framework to change in line with the knowledge that you have. And if, for example, counting the number of hearings that had to mean something else -- supposedly it was 38 out of 52; I haven't done what the chairman of the committee has done to count the number of answers -- would form the basis for what this magnification was supposed to mean, we would come out completely out of the way to take care of the people's views. That is why it must be far more appropriate to review the advice given by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And I think it is very beneficial if, in addition to the precautionary principle, Norway is so restrictive in relation to what we are doing in the future that we ensure that we do not expose the population to a risk of infection that we do not yet know the consequences of. Therefore, it is not difficult for SV to support the Government that the prohibition that has been in force is also enforced and that the ban is extended in time until 1 January 2005. And of course, we are open to the possibility of extending the ban beyond that deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e825	Xenotransplants offer great possibilities, but they also have great concerns. As the rapporteur mentioned, xenotransplantation involves the transfer of live cells, tissues and entire organs from animals to humans, but it also involves the use of live animal cells as vectors for gene therapy. It's also inside the concept of xenotransplant. Today, animal material is used in the form of heart valves and veins and other processed biological material derived from animals, but it has undergone a process of destroying all possible sources of infection, and it has been shown that it has gone well — at least so far. But it is clear that there are still so many questions in this landscape that I am not at least reassured by the fact that one can point to using membrane systems in the United States to avoid the transmission and transmission of accidental diseases. I am afraid that such membranes – said in a slightly transferred sense – can be quite fragile and uncertain. In 1999, the Ministry issued a note of consultation on changes in the transplant law, and it was also proposed to reduce a sample to assess whether to enter procedures for xenotransplantation. The majority then adopted a temporary ban on any form of medical treatment with live biological material until 1 January 2003. This selection has now been jobfiled and has been set. It happened last year. As it has been referred from other speakers before me, it is so that the sample is divided in its view. A majority are in favour of opening up xenotransplantation in Norway from 1 January 2003, while a minority say no to it. The minority believes that there is a need for more precise knowledge of the risk of transmission, that there is a need for better regulation mechanisms and more time for, among other things. a public debate on xenotransplantation. The pressure to achieve this is partly based on the lack of human organs that can be transplanted. That is why it is very positive that the Foundation's organ donation has now been able to do this with a donor card, and that we also get qualified personnel at the donor hospitals, so that it can be better followed up there. I personally hope that there is a system that can have a function in the Norwegian health care system far more than today. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has recommended the Ministerial Committee to impose a temporary ban on xenotransplantation in all Member States and also to work to make this moratorium global. There will be no final clarification on this in the Council of Europe until the end of this year. The majority believe that we should extend the temporary moratorium here in Norway and have a temporary ban on xenotransplantation until 1 January 2005 in order to have sufficient time to assess the recommendations made by the sample and then also to clarify what the Council of Europe is doing. However, a majority of the Committee is committed to the establishment of an interim body which will follow the developments now taking place internationally. As mentioned above, among other things: The United States has come a long way. And it's clear that there are possibilities in this xenotransplant that we might be using, but then at least that has to be certain what we're doing. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Alvheim, said that politicians should not ‘judge the individual’s own ethical choices’. But at least it is clear that politicians have a responsibility for what they adopt and put into practice, to be transparent and safe and not to cause unpleasant or unintended consequences. If it does, it can have dramatic consequences for a lot of people. It is a precautionary principle that we must follow here – as the majority will follow – and that I am pleased that we have in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e840	The proposition and setting currently being addressed by Odelstinget concerns the transfer of living biological material from animals to humans, so-called xenotransplants. The lack of organs for transplants has been the driving force for the development of this technique in very many countries. Three main types of xenotransplant can be distinguished: transplantation of whole organs, transplantation of cells, and use of bioartificial organs. In the case of the two former, a lot of research remains. Recent clinical trials of bioartificial liver are taking place in the United States. The majority of the Committee supports the Government’s proposal to extend the current temporary ban until 1 January 2005. The government wants to follow a precautionary principle in the further development of legislation in this area. According to this, the Government wants more time to assess the Xenotransplant investigation of June 20, 2001. The background to this is the risk of spreading unknown viruses and the need for a broad societal debate on ethical issues related to the crossing of species boundaries between humans and animals, animal protection, including genetic modification in the production of source animals, consent requirements, priority of patient groups and consideration of those affected by xenotransplantation. Furthermore, the Government wants sufficient time to draw up proposals for permanent regulation that are sound in relation to these elements. In regulatory work, it is important to follow any international agreements and guidelines, including future recommendations from the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe appointed a joint working group in 1999 to develop guidelines for the use of xenotransplant. It is expected that the two committees, the Bioethics Steering Committee and the Health Committee, will finalise the draft in June 2002. The draft could then be presented to the Committee of Ministers at the earliest in September this year. According to draft recommendations of the Council of Europe, xenotransplantation should not be carried out in any of the Member States until the area is regulated in line with what will be the final recommendation adopted by the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee. Furthermore, the importance of Member States conducting a broad public debate is underlined. The government's proposal implies the continuation of the temporary ban on the transfer of biological material from animals to humans. The Government’s proposal is that the temporary ban be extended until 1 January 2005. It will provide us with sufficient time to assess the Council of Europe's final recommendation. It will also provide time for a legislative proposal to be sent to a wide-ranging consultation, so that consideration is given to a broad public debate on the proposal for a regulation. In order to prevent further developments in this area from stagnating with an extended ban, the Government has proposed the establishment of an interim body. This body shall be responsible for the international development of xenotransplantation. In this way, it will be possible to keep up to date and have the opportunity to take action if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e866	The pre-goods principle can be good in many ways, but it can actually be extended too far. That is what is done in this case, and it is also done in a case that comes later to Stortinget for treatment. My question to the Minister for Health is this with the Council of Ministers' final assessment and the final communication, which will be dealt with in September, as the Minister for Health himself informed. If the result is that this treatment can be considered to be technically permissible, Norway will have a ban until 2005 if the majority is given their will here today – and there is no reason to believe that they will not. Norwegian patients will still have a problem, while patients in other countries will be able to use xenotransplantation. I think it is very worrying that it should not be an opening to use this technique before 2005, if now all the professional expertise – at least the majority of it – goes in and recommends this treatment. If we do not do wrong to our Norwegian citizens, sir. Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e873	This debate has confirmed the disagreement that appears to prevail between the Progress Party and the Government as regards the view of the balances between the freedom of research, the right of the individual and the need for society to set a framework for social development. In an area that is so full of uncertainty, so full of opportunities for error, the government clearly believes that it is necessary to slow down. It is misleading when the representative Alvheim gives the impression that we are here saying no to a treatment offer that patients could almost use from now on. It's not like that. In this area, there are no established treatment services waiting. It's about research, and it's on part of this in progress some clinical trials, but it's as far as it's come. So I would like to reject the issue and say that in any case it is appropriate that the Council of Europe's recommendation should, of course, focus on countries taking time for a wide public debate and that they should put in place proper regulation before perhaps opening up xenotransplants. That's what the government is doing. We're going to have time to put in place a necessary regulation. In fact, if you were to follow the proposals of the Progress Party here today to vote against the Government's proposal, there would be no regulation of this at all, other than the general framework applicable in our legislation, so that would be a very bad alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e880	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e885	The representative of Ballo hassled with the Progress Party and the Progress Party's views on this matter. Let me just repeat what I have also said earlier: I don't let myself be impressed by the representative Ballo, who is also a doctor, when he constantly puts up the policy in relation to the matter when the matter is going to go in his interest. He was not concerned with hearing statements. If we go in and look at these hearing opinions, look at who has spoken, both those who have spoken positively, and those who have spoken negatively, there are far better qualified professionals than what the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo represents in this room. So far in the debate, I think it's actually just the Progress Party who's seen this case from the patient's point of view, and it's pretty eye-catching. It is reasonably alarming, for many patients also in Norway — more than some and thirty were told by another speaker — went away because they did not get a body to save their lives. Thus, it is now necessary for Norwegian patients who could receive life-saving treatment in xenotransplant to be sentenced from life to 2005. I think that's pretty strong. Me and the Progress Party are not in favour of introducing this technology as long as it is not reasonably safe and secure in terms of infection as well. And our research institutes have just shown that this can now be used, and you've started doing it in the United States. That is my concern in this matter. Because we're pretty much in agreement that this is more emotional than an ethical problem with xenotransplants, although we might have a different view of this with ethics in this context as well. That's our message. And if there is now a clear signal from the Council of Europe or the Council of Ministers, it must be possible to bring this treatment on the steps before 2005. It can't be possible to work so late, because the very technique of the transplants doesn't require any special research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e894	This is perhaps more of a line to the representative Alvheim. I think he takes it seriously when he says that it is only the Progress Party that looks at this matter from the patient's point of view. I scored, among other things. lack of human organs and donors is one of the problems here, which creates pressure on the introduction of xenotransplantation before we should do so. But I wanted there to be a system now based on the Foundation Organ Donation that made us have access to more human organs. And I also said at the end of my post that the day xenotransplantation turns out to be completely safe, we're hoping that at least parts of this can be used for those who need it, in our medicine. But I think we're going to spend time very wisely and be very alert before we start this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e901	I wanted to end this debate with what I started with, that it's not that there are now available bodies in Norway or elsewhere in the world. There is research that is being carried out in this area. What is available is human organs. And I pointed out in my post at the outset that there are donor cards. I think it's a little strong when the representative Alvheim says that the patients are convicted from life. We have a unique opportunity to join in giving donor cards and become a donor. And with that, we can help put the patient in the center, which we're all concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e908	John I. Alvheim has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e914	I have not said that the other representatives are not concerned with the patients. What I said was that it is the Progress Party in this debate that has taken a stand from the patient's point of view. I'm standing by. And that's right. Otherwise, I would like to say to the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund: we use and have used calves' heart valves for years in connection with heart operations. This has been in use for years in Norway, so we are already using animal organs in transplant surgery. But here it's about an extension to also being able to cure other serious disorders of xenotransplantation. So before the var-principle we have far too far exceeded. I would like to make it quite clear that the professionals who have been in the public authorities in Norway are professionals who are well composed and have good competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e923	I reacted with numerous indignification on the television transmission when I reached my office, so I came up again. There's no point in being impressed, or anything. In one case earlier today, as I pointed out to the head of the committee, the Progress Party and SV, it was entirely agreed that it would be natural to take account of the individual. In a case where the spread of infection is at risk and there are major societal consequences, it also affects the individual – of course it does – but it is clear that social concerns must be general. It's just a reasoning. You can disagree, and I understand that Alvheim is. But when you conclude that you put the individual in the center, you have to take the consequences of it. Then I register that the representative Alvheim draws heart valves from calves, which you have been using for many years – dead material that reacts completely mechanically when you use it as a flap, because it gets pressure components. And then you have to equate it with a heart, a muscle that reacts actively, that gets bled through, that's an active organ that's the patient's own, and that you have a very small overview of what kind of infection can come from! At least we do not know enough today that we in SV feel safe about it. I record that the Progress Party is saying that you have a certainty that the researchers can't give us either. I mean that, and it means SV, is taking chances on behalf of patients. And there's a kind of chance we're not willing to take, because if you get a spread of infection, you haven't earned the patients, then you've hit the patients. Then the Alvheim or the Advance Party may agree or disagree with such reasoning. You only have the fasitite if you put it into action and then you get the spread of the infection. But we don't want to take that chance. We want to use the precautionary principle and say, let's know more first. Let's see what researchers come up with about results in very isolated trials that don't have to do with people. And first let's apply the technology. Let's not take those chances right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e934	I see it as necessary in this debate to clarify that it is on the part of the Government, and I believe it is also on the part of the majority who support the Government in this matter, which has just been based on the interests of patients. The question relating to the risk of transmission of viruses and infection from animals to humans is precisely related to patient interests. So I think you should have the respect for each other that, on an ethical basis, different conclusions can be drawn on the question of whether it is right to cross species boundaries between animals and humans. In this regard, I would like to point out that the use of calf heart valves, which was mentioned by the representative of Alvheim, is not part of the definition of xenotransplants. Finally, I must be allowed to say to this presentation that Odelstinget today almost refuses patients in Norway an available treatment offer: there is no such treatment offer, and I am not aware that there is any regular treatment with xenotransplant anywhere else in the world. What we're talking about is different stages of clinical trials, and it's not an established treatment offer. In this way, I must say that the presentation given in the debate today, that the majority here should refuse any available treatment, is misleading.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e944	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e959	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e970	There should probably be reason to believe that this matter takes significantly shorter time than 1 hour and 15 minutes. In Ot.prp. No 57 Some proposals for amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act are presented. This applies to: the authorisation of the authorities to require information on the prohibition of the use of misleading terms on tobacco packages in order to lay down provisions on health warnings in the form of pictures or similar on tobacco packages so that the local authority may delegate supervision to the inter-municipal organ movement of the definition of tobacco products by law from Section 3 to Section 1; As regards the background to the proposal itself, reference is made to a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2001 concerning the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products. The Directive requires Member States to implement the provisions by 30 September 2002. I'm going to try to go through the proposition a little quickly, and I'm going to start by saying that the government gets a full impact on its view of this matter. It is probably only the Progress Party which has other proposals on some points or is opposed to some of the proposals that have been promoted. It is in those cases where the Government has chosen to go beyond the Directive itself. The Progress Party also accepts the content of the directive, but is therefore in favour of the proposals for amendments which go beyond the directive itself. So this is probably a debate where even those who didn't sign up are going to go up to the big heights, because this case we've obviously lost before we get to the hall. As far as the first point is concerned, a permit is granted to require product information from the tobacco industry. It will then be fully implemented in the Committee other than the Progress Party, which notes that it is possible to impose on ‘any’ a possible obligation to provide information beyond the Directive itself as to who could be required to provide information. The party of progress wants to vote against this. In addition, contrary to the majority of the Committee, the Progress Party wishes that there should still be an obligation of professional secrecy within the Tobacco Injury Act, while the majority would like it, I believe, in the Administrative Act – at least in a different section of the law. The Progress Party still wants to stand as today's own obligation of professional secrecy. In the case of prohibitions on misleading product names, such as: is referred to as ‘light’ and ‘mild’, the Government is fully impressed by the proposal contained in the proposal. Then we come to the issue of warning marking in the form of images etc., where the government also goes beyond what the directive is about. This matter shall not be brought before the Commission until December 2002, but the Government and now the majority of this Chamber are in favour of introducing it, even this time in a regulatory forum. The Progress Party will vote against this proposal. When it comes to changing the legal definition of tobacco products, no one has anything to say about it. Finally, without creating the big furor, I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1012	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1015	The rapporteur has now explained the matter, which concerns amendments to the Act on Tobacco Protection, and has also made it clear that only the Progress Party is not part of the Committee's majority. I think it could be more speedy in the debate if it were our own tobacco consumption we were to discuss – we can leave that in mind – even if information on tobacco products, tobacco package labels and tobacco health warnings can be controversial enough. In this matter, the Labour Party is represented in the majority of the Committee. We see it as appropriate to get as much equivalent legislation as possible across Europe. We also agree that Norway may have additional rules when justified on grounds of health, social or environmental reasons. I guess that means that we don't see so much darkness at it whether we should have any stricter rules than other countries, if that's what I've given you, it should be right. We are of the opinion that both the responsibility and the prerequisite for providing product information lies with the manufacturer. This is in line with Article 6 of Directive 2001/37/EC, which deals with this. We also think it is right that producers and importers should bear the costs of researching tobacco products, as the Ministry legally requests. However, it has been important for the Workers' Party to stress that in some cases a concrete balance is made between the costs, complexity and benefits of studies and the benefits of the information to be provided by the study. It is in the interests of Norwegian producers. This is also widely accepted by the Committee. As regards the practical supervisory work, we believe that it is reasonable for each municipality to have supervision in its own municipality, but that this supervision can be delegated to an inter-municipal body.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1030	The next speaker is Bent Höie. Bent Höie has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1033	I hardly think there is a need to spend 10 minutes, but I would nevertheless say that the changes proposed by the Government are mainly due to an EU directive, but one goes further in some areas as well. I would like to stress that the changes you make here are positive, and should actually have been made regardless of whether you had received this directive or one. Smoking is one of our more serious public health problems. In the debates in which we as health politicians participate, there is often a very strong focus on the repair of injuries, on the activity of hospitals, on the level of psychiatry, etc., and so you create a very clear picture that what matters to people's health is the level of appropriations from this house. But that's wrong. What really matters to the health of people in this country is the development that has been in relation to public health in the last hundred years, the development that you have had in relation to living standards, in relation to food and not least in relation to information about what is healthy, and what is unhealthy, and the improvements that have been in the workplace. That's what made us healthier and healthier than we were a hundred years ago, not the development of medicine. It is a very small part, because it is the repairs that are done once the damage has occurred. That doesn't mean I want to minimize that part, but often we forget to focus on what really means a lot to the large population. That is why I want to commend the Minister of Health for receiving an offensive focus in this area, not least in relation to smoking, because there is a need to take new and important action in the future. When you look at the setting, there is largely consensus, but where there is disagreement, it is characterized by the fact that the Progress Party in this area can in a way be drawn after the hair in relation to the area where they have to make changes, where the EU requires us to make changes. But in every area where you're free, they don't want to go another millimeter. In fact, it goes so far that one does not want an intermunicipal body to control this area, which obviously has to be rational and less bureaucratic than if this were to happen in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1042	The very name of the law, the law on protection against tobacco damage, says what is the purpose of the presentation. Tobacco damage is well documented over a long period of time. Smoking is one of the most important single causes of disease and early death in our time, both nationally and internationally. It's a sad fact that more women than men smoke. Studies show that women now pay for their smoking habits. The mortality rate of lung cancer among women in Norway is among the highest in Europe. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is a great advantage for one now to have as much equivalent legislation as possible across Europe. We believe, as the majority of the committee, that one can have additional national rules when justified on environmental, social or health grounds. Norway should be at the tip of the road and would like to go a bit ahead of the other countries, thus showing the way in the fight against tobacco damage. Sometimes it is necessary to go deeper and get an overview of the ingredients contained in a tobacco product. It shall then be possible, on a proposal from the majority, to require importers or producers to carry out the necessary investigations at their own cost. Derogations from this requirement may be made by the Directorate for Social and Health. The Committee is integrated in the requirement to prohibit misleading advertising. As a result of new EU rules, it is not now permitted to place cigarettes on the market as ‘mild’ or ‘light’. There can be no doubt that cigarettes are harmful to health. There are no harmless cigarettes! A U.S. study found that there was a similar amount of nicotine in all cigarettes. A transitional period of one year has been foreseen to follow up the changes in the law. Monitoring that the rules are complied with in each municipality is the sole responsibility of the municipalities. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that this supervision can be delegated to an inter-municipal body. Norway, with its proposals, has taken a good step forward in the fight against tobacco-related harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1059	This case is based on an EU directive to be implemented by 30 September this year. It's, as I know, a transition phase of one year. You're going to get into a practice that is similar to what we're adopting today's law. We agree that there should be as much international laws and guidelines for tobacco products as possible. At the same time, we see it as an advantage that we also have the freedom to make additional rules when they are justified in the environment or have social and health reasons. We support the Government in this. It is also the case that the law says something about the ability of the producer and importer to obtain an overview of all the ingredients of the tobacco products, that it is the producer and the importer who is the appropriate body to provide such information, and that this is to be done for their account within reasonable limits. I think this is a very important point in the law, because we know that there have been questions about what is the content of some of the tobacco products. The majority, all except the Advance Party, try to define the term ‘any’ in the legal text and understand it as ‘any importer and tobacco producer’. In this way, it should be clarified well enough. This with product names has also been a topic of discussion especially in the context of cigarettes, and it is important that we have clear provisions on this. The fact that the manufacturer or importer is allowed to bear labels of different product types is okay, but shall not be misleading marking. It is also the case that we, the majority of the Committee, are opening up the possibility of making rules on access to warning marking – warning marking beyond what is currently in the proposal from the European Union. So finally, this by checking according to the provisions of the Tobacco Damage Act: The majority believe that it is the individual municipality that is responsible for the supervision in its own municipality. That's how it should be. But one must be able to delegate this to the administrative level, first internally in the municipality, and also to an intermunicipal body. In other words, the enforcement and follow-up of the provisions of the law on penalties, etc., must be possible by an inter-municipal body. It has to be right and practical.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1076	Tobacco use is the main single cause of illness and early death that we know how to prevent. I consider it an important social responsibility to facilitate good preventive health work. The proposition underpinning the Committee's decision today is one of several measures taken by the Cooperation Government to limit the health damage caused by tobacco use to the population. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has, through its vote, joined the Government's proposal. The use of tobacco is a health problem that has received increasing international attention. In the early 1970s, Norway was a leading country in relation to the introduction of legislation in this area. The Tobacco Damage Act, adopted on a proposal from the Korvald Government in 1973, imposed a ban on tobacco advertising, and Norway was the first country in the Western world to adopt such a ban. In recent years, more and more countries have stepped up legislation in a number of areas to prevent tobacco damage, and Norway is no longer among the developing nations. I intend to do something about that. Tobacco prevention has received increased attention within, inter alia: European Union and World Health Organisation. International cooperation is important for effective prevention. Globally, there is a trend towards a reduction in tobacco use in the western part of the world. However, the trend in developing countries is worrying. The WHO's work on establishing a framework convention on tobacco control, initiated by Gro Harlem Brundtland, is an important measure to reduce the use of tobacco in developing countries. The Ministry of Health is actively contributing to the establishment of a strong convention to which many countries can subscribe. Most of the amendments currently under consideration by Odelsting are linked to the implementation of a new EU Directive which will be incorporated into the EEA Agreement after examination in the EEA Committee. The legislative proposals include, inter alia,: that the authorities are given a clear authorisation to obtain information on tobacco products from producers and importers. This is necessary in order to assess adverse health effects and, where appropriate, further regulation of the product tobacco. The use of terms such as ‘light’ and ‘mild’ for tobacco products gives the impression that these products are less harmful to health than traditional cigarettes. However, scientific studies show that this is not the case, and it is therefore an important step to put an end to the potential of the tobacco industry to minimize the adverse effects of the products. In addition to the provisions of the EU Directive which require changes to the law and which Odelstinget is currently under consideration, the Ministry of Health has recently sent out a proposal for a new regulation on the content and labelling of tobacco products in the light of the Directive. The proposal significantly strengthens the regulation of the content of tobacco products. The regulation provides for new and stricter limits on the content of individual substances in cigarettes. It will also provide additional provisions on the disclosure obligations of producers and importers to the authorities, including: the information to be obtained by the authorities, the studies which may be required and the way in which the information is to be processed. The proposal for a new regulation also contains relatively substantial changes to the existing provisions concerning the labelling of tobacco products. The size of the health warnings and the content declaration is increased in relation to the applicable provisions and more detailed labelling design requirements are introduced. The proposal also provides for the revision of the text of the health warning. Tobacco injury prevention is a priority I have. The legislative proposal under consideration today, and the draft regulation currently under consultation, are just two of the many actions that the Co-operation Government will take in this area. Information and awareness-raising activities are important to prevent children and young people from smoking. I have an ambitious goal of halving the percentage of young people who smoke over a five-year period. The school is an important venue for this work. Tobacco education has been developed for both secondary and secondary school, and these programmes are continuously being developed and improved. The emphasis here is on preventing smoking and providing help and motivation to quit smoking through specific offers. Together with the Minister of Education, I have also recently sent letters to the county councils and encouraged them to make the outings of high school smoke-free. Too many people, it's very hard to stop smoking on their own. Therefore, helping to end smoking is an important part of tobacco-injury prevention. One of the new measures in this area is the provision of smoke-stop courses in all Norwegian cities and agglomerations at fixed times — after Christmas and after the summer holidays, as motivation is usually on top. For the autumn, there will be more than 100 course managers at the end of the smoke. Some are already working on a course for businesses and individuals. In cooperation with the Social and Health Directorate and the County Boards, these course managers shall provide a handshake to those who wish to stamp the cigarette for good. Last but not least, the Government will submit to consultation a proposal for amendments to the provisions relating to smoking in restaurants and outdoors, with a view to limiting the major problem of passive smoking in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1104	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1112	We were supposed to be ready to vote. But before that, the President will say that the regulatory time for the morning meeting is over. The President proposes that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1119	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 and 2, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 4-8, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to localise the National Agency for Quality of Education outside Oslo.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1664	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 12 paragraph 3 shall be replaced by the following:Accreditation and evaluation shall be carried out on the basis of the standards used in similar training courses at leading institutions internationally.§ 12 new paragraphs. 4 shall be replaced by the following:The Board of Directors shall give an opinion to the Ministry on procedural rules. The rules are approved by the Ministry.§ 13 para. 4 shall be replaced by the following:Article 48 provides that the decision of the Agency may be appealed against to an independent appeal brought by the Ministry. The Ministry lays down rules on access to justice.All evaluations carried out by the body are public and the body shall contribute to their publication. 5. is replaced by the following:The Agency's responsibilities and powers towards private higher education institutions are governed by the Law of Private Higher Education.§ 14 para. 2 shall be replaced by the following:The Governing Board and the Chairperson of the Board shall be appointed by the King and shall consist of five members and three alternates, one of whom shall be a member and one alternate." An alternative between the Committee's suspension and Section 12 paragraph 12 paragraph is first added. 3 and new paragraphs 4, § 13 nr. 4 and 5 and § 14 nr. 2 and the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative of Jan Simonsen. Then the other numbers under Sections 12, 13 and 14 are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1743	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 19. 2 is replaced by the following:Students shall have at least 20 pst. and never less than two of the members of any college body conferred decision-making powers. Except for this provision, the addendum is subject to paragraph 30. 1.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e1858	The Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen have announced that they are moving towards No. 1 third sentence. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are moving towards No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2231	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 44 is replaced by the following: Educational environment1. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the learning environment of students. The Management Board, in cooperation with student relations, shall facilitate a good study environment and work to improve student welfare at the university.2. The Management Board is responsible for ensuring that the learning environment of the institution, including the physical and mental work environment, is fully sound on the basis of an overall assessment of the health, safety and well-being of the students. The Working Environment Act and its related regulations shall apply mutatis mutandis, with the exception of Chapters VIII to XIIB of the Act and Chapter XV.3. At the institution, there shall be a learning environment committee and one or more guardians who shall exercise the rights of the students in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1. 1, 2 and the Working Environment Act. Educational environment committees and protection ombudsmen shall have the same rights and duties as those of the occupational environment committee and the protection ombudsman under Chapter VII of the Labour Environment Act.4. The institution's work on the learning environment shall be documented and included as part of the institution's internal control systems in accordance with Section 16(a) of the Working Environment Act and its related regulations.5. Labour supervision is the supervisory body. Chapter XIII of the Working Environment Act applies mutatis mutandis.6. The Ministry may lay down rules.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2283	There is a proposal, No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party to the new No. 1st@item: inlistbox First of all, there is a vote on this proposal, which reads: ‘§ 44 a new point 1 is replaced by the following:The language of instruction is in Norwegian normal.Points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposal are shifted accordingly.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2302	I voted wrong! Several representatives indicated that they had voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2311	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2323	It is then voted over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2430	For § 46 nr. 6 an aberrant proposal, No. 6, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 46 paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: Authority given in § 46, paragraph 1 to 2 shall be withdrawn by the Ministry if the institutions do not have adequate internal quality assurance systems, as specified. Section 2, Nos. 8.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2567	For § 50 nr. 6 a proposal, No. 8, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen to the second sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 50 paragraph the following new second sentence is added: Each institution may apply to the ministry for an alternative character scale in addition to the main model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2654	The Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen have announced that they are moving towards No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2707	The President will vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Section 54a is replaced by the following: The Ministry prescribes the content and structure of teacher training.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2761	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2771	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2787	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2794	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Beate Heieren Hundhammer on behalf of Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2934	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security, the first paragraph of Section 21-4 shall be replaced by the following:When processing claims for benefits or verifying benefits under this Act, the social security system has the right to obtain the necessary information from treatment staff and other providers of social security services. The same applies to employers, government and private pension schemes. In the case of necessary checks on individual beneficiaries of benefits under this Act, the social security scheme is entitled to obtain information from a financial institution in respect of the balance of deposits and loans, credit in accounts, and specified individual transactions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e2966	The President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 Paragraphs 21-4 of the present third paragraph shall become the fourth paragraph and shall read as follows:Those who are required to provide information, statements and statements, duties to do so without undue delay and without prejudice to professional secrecy. Persons and institutions which may be required to provide information may, on their own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, inform the social security system in the event of suspicion of the unjustified acquisition of social security funds. An institution or person who has provided information based on the second sentence in good faith may not be held liable.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3112	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3121	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3132	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3225	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3235	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3242	During the debate, Mr Olsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up its own legislative proposal on xeno transplantation as soon as possible.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3271	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3299	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3309	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3316	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Mr T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3364	The progress party has announced that they are moving towards the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3392	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3421	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on the protection against tobacco damage, Section 7 is replaced by the following:He who manufactures or introduces tobacco products, obligations under the directives of the Directorate for Social and Health to provide the information necessary to prevent health damage caused by the use of tobacco, or to carry out tasks under the law.The Directorate for Social and Health may require the person who manufactures or introduces tobacco products to provide information on the content of tobacco products. The Ministry may lay down rules laying down detailed rules on the obligation to provide information within the meaning of the first sentence.The person receiving information under this paragraph shall observe, within the limits of his duties under the law, professional secrecy which would be of competitive importance in the interests of the person to whom the information relates.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3458	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06-lower.ana.ud1311e3468	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
