ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e35	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e40	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e48	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e51	On behalf of the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to propose measures to follow up the report of the SAPRIN network on the impact of the World Bank's structural adjustment programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e56	The representative, Mr Kjetil Bjørklund, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e60	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen, Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the imposition of restrictions on the purchase of defence equipment from war countries or where war threatens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e65	The representative of Karita Bekkelem Orheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e68	I will, on behalf of Per Sandberg, Øystein Djupedal and myself, promote a proposal for a fund provision for the Research Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e73	The representative Karl-Anton Swensen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e76	I will, on behalf of myself, make two proposals. The first is a proposal for earmarked transport aid to provide Norwegian transport industries with the same framework conditions as the EU transport aid scheme provides for industry in Finland and Sweden. The second is a proposal for a scheme to provide a basis for financing the efforts to stop radioactive discharges from Sellafield. The scheme should provide a minimum of 50 million. kr for 2002-2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e83	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e106	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Fossstatsrådet Dagfinn Høybrättenstatsrådet Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e125	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The TV 2 channel revealed Sunday evening scandalous and unworthy conditions at the psychiatric ward at Haukeland Hospital. It was suggested that forced psychotic patients are placed on the corridor or on multibed rooms where the beds are very close. Lack of emergency facilities in psychiatry is not an unknown phenomenon, either for me or for the Minister of Health. The situation has been this way for the last five to ten years. The Minister of Health was interviewed in that TV entry and informed that he would significantly increase the construction of nursing homes for psychiatric patients in the municipalities. It's fine, but it doesn't help for acute psychiatry and the conditions that are revealed in Haukeland hospitals, which are found in several psychiatric wards. The psychiatry plan has decided to build a significant number of district psychiatric centres that will obviously dampen the pressure on acute psychiatry. Will the Minister of Health take the initiative to support the development of the planned district psychiatric centres, to be completed in 2004, two years before the actual plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e136	Let me first say that I agree with the representative Alvheim that the conditions described in this report are not durable. They are apprehended by Health Bergen, and are also followed up by the supervisory authorities, the County Doctor in Hordaland. I have assumed that the Health Authority will report to me on the result of this supervisory work. As the representative of Alvheim points out, the problem of overcoating on part of the emergency services in psychiatry is closely related to the lack of development of local services at a lower level. Sintef has shown in a report that about half of the patients actually needed services at a different and lower level than those posted in psychiatric specialist units at that time. It shows that it is necessary to develop district psychiatric centres. It's now happening to a large extent. It is planned approx. 80 such district psychiatric centers. 29 of them have been completed. 32 of them are in operation, but need to be further developed, and there are plans for another 17 district psychiatric centers. In the context of the review now undertaken by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Directorate for Health of the status and implementation of the escalation plan, we will also consider the question posed by the representative of Alvheim, and we will return to the Stortinget in the 2003 budget line with an update of the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e145	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. On behalf of the Advancement Party, I have repeatedly called for a review of the Psychiatric Plan in the last few years, as I do not believe that maps and terrain are voting anymore. The waiting lists are increasing, especially for children and young people. Will the Minister of Health consider reorganising the Psychiatric Specialist Service and incorporate it into the usual hospital structure in line with geriatric wards, neurological wards, etc.? I think that this kind of incorporation would be less stigmatizing for mental disorders, and combined, giving a better effect with a greater consensus in the treatment schedules.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e154	There is already a major shift and restructuring in the field of mental health protection. One of the challenges is to think new about treatment. Treatment must be given at an earlier stage. It must be given closer where people live, and there is some of the purpose of expanding both housing, which is an important part of the chain, and also of district psychiatric centers. I agree that it is an objective to reduce the stigma traditionally and historically associated with psychiatry and, therefore, it seems that the issue of a stronger integration into the overall healthcare system is important. There are issues that health businesses are dealing with. I don't want to impose special solutions on them, but I know that a lot of people are working towards a stronger integration, and I think that's a sensible development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e161	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e164	The current situation, for example: have been exposed at Haukeland Hospital, I think everyone can agree that there must be a reasonably unworthy situation for, among other things. also psychiatric patients now in hospital corridors, both in terms of the human aspect and not least in terms of the treatment aspect. According to a notice in Bergen's Official Journal today, the branch doctor of this psychiatric department has resigned his position in protest against the conditions that exist over there. Does the Minister of Health not see the context here, that in the situation we have in the area of psychiatry, where we are going to get new staff to work at these institutions and at hospitals, is there also a problem in being able to recruit and provide sound health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e173	Without going into the specific staff case at Health Bergen, I would say that the whole plan of escalation and the effort that the Stortinget has made in this area has already been a recruiter. Today, we have far less problems recruiting psychiatry in different disciplines than it seemed we should have when the plan was adopted. Having said that, I would like to reiterate that it is very important that the hospital departments receive the relief that the development of the local services, district psychiatric centres and housing and services in the municipalities, represents, when it is actually such that SINTEF can demonstrate that more than half of the patients in the specialised hospital departments should not actually be there, but should be offered at a lower level. That expansion will remedy the situation. In addition, I would say that there is a management and organisational challenge related to this corridor patient problem that Health Bergen must address.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e181	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e184	The Council of State description of the need to invest in municipalities to strengthen psychiatry there, so that more patients can be treated in municipalities and will not need more specialised services, is a recital that SV fully agrees with. But we see that there are purely acute situations in which patients are in such a poor condition – there are many who have to be referred to special wards or psychiatric hospitals – that they do not have room, perhaps not until they have to be hospitalised under the law on mental health protection, at a time when they no longer voluntarily accept a hospital. It's in many ways a very dramatic situation, because that means that the treatment alliance you initially had with the patient is no longer present. And so it looks as if there is a need for two parallel runs here – short-term to have several places available at the psychiatric ward and hospital in parallel with the development of spaces in the municipalities over time. Does the Council have any thoughts on how to get that kind of double grip to improve the situation also in the short term for psychiatric patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e191	There is also a certain extension of the hospital wards in the objective of the escalation plan. But I think the main focus must be on expanding the service provision locally through district psychiatric centres and the service provision in the municipalities. And there's a lot going on here. I mentioned that we are doing well in the development of district psychiatric centers. In municipalities, there are now 1,700 new jobs of earmarked funds in the provision of services for people with mental health problems, and all municipalities have incorporated mental health measures into their plans. So I think that even though there may have to be some development in the hospital wards, the challenge of the hospital wards is first and foremost a change of mind. Not all patients go to the hospital and stay there for a long time. That's the old psychiatry's thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e198	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e201	Many people now ask themselves how it is possible with the billions of appropriations that we have for psychiatry in Norway, that we actually have those states that are described in the media from time to time. Although it doesn't always give the full, whole and true picture, it means that there are significant gaps still today. The paradox is that if you think you should give more money, you have to see the result of the funds you grant. And not just to have a reference to the newspapers, I would like to ask the Minister of Health: what feedback does the Minister of Health get about such matters that were recently described, among others. in the Official Journal of Bergen, and what answers will the Minister for Health be able to give to such feedback?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e208	I have to remind the representative Kristoffersen that the state description presented to the Stortinget as the basis for the escalation plan was: failure at all stages. The escalation plan gave a clear message that it would take time to correct failures at all stages. And the proposal was eight years old, and it ended up with a unanimous growth. We've been telling the truth that these are not conditions that can change overnight. But when that is said, I would point out in an answer to the Christian Sacrifice and to others who ask, that we are actually doing well. Treatment capacity has increased considerably both within adult psychiatry and within paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. In adult psychiatry, the number of treated patients increased by 10 pst. between 1998 and 2000 and within paediatric psychiatry with 28 pst. during the same period. We are doing well in developing the service offer. But we're not there, and that's the challenge that we're responsible for in the escalation period we're now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e215	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e218	I must first be allowed to quote from what was the government's addition to the state budget that was presented in the autumn: ‘The government emphasises that the budget should provide room for lower interest rates in the future.’.» So this was before Christmas. At the end of January this year, a comment by Minister of Finance Foss gave to the Evening Post: ‘There is room to cut interest rates already in spring, according to Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss.’ The ambitions of the Government for economic policy, which were thus expressed in clear wording in the Appendix to the State Budget for this year, are difficult to identify in the revised national budget submitted to the Grand Duchy yesterday. My question to the Minister of Finance is, Is it so that the Government and the Minister of Finance have adjusted their ambitions? Is it no longer an objective that the State budget should contribute to providing room for lower interest rates in the future, as formulated before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e235	Allow me to say that interest assessments in Stortinget and from a government must always be based on the situation we otherwise face financially. It is right to say that the pressure from the other side of the Norwegian interest rate has changed slightly from the Stortinge to the budget last autumn until today. The oil price has strengthened, so the growth and pressure impulses of the international economy are stronger. We're in the middle of a paycheck that seems to be relatively expensive. I might have expressed myself a little cautiously. In the Government’s view, the current budgetary change and revision provide the basis for a non-increase in interest rate pressure. Other conditions may influence this further, perhaps in the direction of the interest rate pressure falling. I note the reactions of the market yesterday. As it says, there have been no significant market reactions. To the extent that it has been, it has been towards a reduction in money market interest rates and, in fact, a reduction in exchange rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e242	We must then be able to see here in the Chamber that Minister of Finance Foss is now presenting a significantly adjusted and changed ambition for what the budget will contribute to in terms of interest rate developments. Now the Minister of Finance is satisfied if the budget does not contribute to increasing interest rates, as he puts it today. But my question will be quite specific: does the Minister of Finance think that the revised budget presented yesterday is a positive contribution in the sense that it can still create this room for possible interest rebates, as the Minister of Finance has so clearly expressed earlier this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e249	Yes, that's a positive contribution. In an otherwise rather pressing situation, the revised national budget is a positive contribution. So far I've also registered that most interest rate analysts mean it. But it is clear that it is also possible to adopt a budget unless expenditure is less than that proposed by the Government. If it's the Workers' Party's opinion, I'm absolutely sure that there can be a large majority that will also contribute to it, without me going into the treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e255	There will be follow-up questions – Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e258	In the state budget, a growth of 2.5 pst has been outlined. The economic growth is now going to be 1.8 pst. Looking at this in relation to the situation we have in the industry, the forecasts show that in the near future we can risk losing approximately. 60,000 jobs. Looking at the revised budget, there is no outline of how to meet these challenges in terms of the loss of industrial jobs. Is it the case that the Minister of Finance leaves this whole situation to the Bank of Norway, that the Minister of Finance now only accepts that this should be done with industry, and does he not outline any budget arrangements to meet the challenges we face? Is it the case that Norway's Bank is now on its own to rule, and that we should not have any control over the steering wheel in such a challenging situation? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e267	The president reminds me of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e270	I am a little surprised at the question, as the previous government also insisted on the monetary policy that it is in fact Norway's Bank that has the right to use the interest-rate instrument as part of monetary policy. This government has no other view of that area. The strategy in relation to the competitive sector is precisely to follow the rule of action, so that we do not increase the interest rate pressure. I record that in parts of the industry there is a perception that the budget should be considerably tighter on the expenditure side. I have not recorded that as much as any significant criticism from Stortinget, but it is clear that there is also an opportunity through the treatment in Stortinget. The strategy in relation to competitive business includes, inter alia: to ensure that business gradually becomes more competitive framework conditions, to reduce investment taxes, to improve depreciation rules and to reduce taxes on wealth – this is part of such an overall strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e277	Swear Jensen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e280	For several days we have heard quite strong language usage from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance when it comes to the fact that the opposition on the Stortinget has clearly come together to form majority solutions that help to make everyday life better for most people. In sum, the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party have so far agreed to use 260 million. kr. It's in quite a contrast to the revised budget, where the government itself proposes to spend $6 billion. My question to the Minister of Finance is about the criticism he has made through various media, will be repeated in this Chamber against Stortinget. Is it true that the Minister of Finance believes that the Storting is irresponsible and contributes to increased interest rates, or is the opposition on the Stortinget responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e287	It was violent to be invited to give such a certificate. I don't think I'm going to give such a blank certificate either in one direction or another. I would like to underline the main point of the criticism. If the Storting intervenes in budgetary discussions between the budgetary procedures that have been set up, i.e. between the national and government budgets harvests and the revision of the budget in spring, without at the same time pointing to and being a majority for containment, then there is a problem with the whole of the budgetary procedure. If such treatment results in a substantial increase in expenditure and failure to comply with the rules of action, it will result in interest-rate pressures. There's no criticism, it's an indication of how the relationship is in the economy. But I record that, according to today’s newspapers, trends in such overdrafts – to call it that – are significantly weakened. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e294	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e297	I note that the Minister of Finance believes that the revised budget is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy and will not contribute to an increase in the pressure on interest rates. At the same time, the Minister of Finance shows that there are other issues, including wage-fixing, which, of course, also affect interest-fixing. I assume that the Minister of Finance and the Government must, of course, make an overall assessment of the economic situation – that is, not only the situation described in the revised budget, but also wage settlement and other underlying issues, is the basis for the Government’s assessment of how much can be spent in the revised budget. I find that the government has chosen not to place decisive emphasis on part 1 of the so-called rule of action, on cyclical management. Is it, therefore, in the light of the Minister of Finance's reply to the representative of Solberg, that the Government's assessment of the overall economic situation is such that the revised budget presented does not contribute to an overall increase in the pressure on interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e304	Yes, it's the government's view that the economic environment is well adapted to the economic situation. I point out that there are provisions in the budget for the government's share of the expected expenditure on a payroll settlement. I point out that the cancellation of the Petroleum Fund has been adjusted because the fund was smaller than foreseen at the opening of the year. I point out that domestic GDP growth is still lower than the trend growth, i.e. what is normal. I point out that we have adjusted the forecasts for the expected price increase. Overall, this gives an image of an economy in which the revised national budget is well adapted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e309	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e313	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. In an exemplary series of articles, the daily newspaper revealed what the Norwegian oil fund is still investing in. It is still invested in landmines, although this is a violation of international conventions, it is within the framework of child labour, forced labour, environmental hosting, class bombing and nuclear bombing — just to mention some of the investments made by the oil fund. In a trance, we have a word called 'tungnem' and it might be appropriate to use it on this occasion, because there are still those who think we need to invest in the type of business if we have an international pension fund. This isn't right. There are hundreds of funds only in Europe, and hundreds of them in the United States. Even the world's largest pension fund, California Public Employees" Retirement System, called CalPERS, with a management capital of $170 billion, i.e. significantly larger than the oil fund, has ethical guidelines for managing its fund, and consistently these funds have at least as good returns as the usual funds that are not subject to this type of legislation. My question to the Council of State is this: does he still believe that it is not possible for the Oil Fund to have an ethical code to avoid these embarrassing revelations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e322	The President will note that obscurity is not a specific tranny phenomenon, but must be assumed to be nationwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e325	Yes – and that’s one of the milder words about the undersigned by the representative of Djupedal, so it’s a nice tone. The Petroleum Fund has now been given reinforced guidelines that I perceive as part of ethical guidelines. The extraction mechanism applies to weapons prohibited under international conventions Norway has acceded to. We have now extended the extraction mechanism, following the proposal contained in the revised national budget, to include violations of human rights related to conventions on child labour and child abuse, the ILO Convention on the Rights of the Child and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This implies, as it is implemented, that some activities will be excluded from the area in which the Petroleum Fund can invest. We stress that these guidelines must be such that they are verifiable and verifiable. We stress that the guidelines for the Fund must be such that it is possible to practice them by the Bank of Norway and the Petroleum Fund without having to exercise self-esteem. Norway’s Bank is not a body of Norwegian foreign policy and must be bound by official policies in these areas, and we have attached it to the obligations of international law. In conclusion, I just have to point out that CalPERS, the Californian company, also has in its guidelines that the ethical rules should not, however, weaken earnings – so their scope is limited, whether we look at practices as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e334	Strengthening an extraction mechanism is good and good. There's nothing wrong with that. But an extracting mechanism is an act that takes place afterwards – after Dagbladet, NorWatch, SV or others have revealed what the oil fund is inside. So that means that you first have to go into a landmine producer, so there's a awake journalist who discovers this, and then we can go out afterwards. First, we're going to go into a company that invests in forced labour in Burma, and then there's a awake journalist or someone else who discovers this – and you can stand out. The whole point of an ethical code is to screen the worst companies so that they don't become part of this universe in which you can invest. This is a growing business area around the world. This does not mean that this ethical code for large pension funds is perfect — not at all. But what is more and more striking is that these investments made by the people's money through the oil fund are contrary to what is this house's policy, and what is the government's policy. Burma is the most blatant example, where we invest state money, while private people are asked to stay away. [[The President clubs.]] My challenge to the Minister of Finance is this: we now want to investigate whether this is possible, by international law experts, ethical economists, who can help us put in place legislation. Will the Minister of Finance accept this extended hand from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e343	The President will remind you that there is also a lack of sensitivity in terms of compliance with speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e346	It is not correct that the check should be carried out in retrospect. If the Stortinget now accepts the guidelines proposed by the Government, then the Ministry of Finance and the Petroleum Fund will start a so-called screening – what the Norwegian word for it is, I'm looking for, but it's kind of a kind of control of companies based on the information available to open up companies that violate the conventions I mentioned earlier. Such checks, screenings, cannot give a complete guarantee either, it has all the funds that the representative has mentioned, both the Swedish AP funds and the California Fund, experienced that despite screening, there has been a breach in individual companies. I don't think we can rule that out in the future either. But we can significantly reduce the risk of that. As far as the investigation is concerned, I recommend the investigation made publicly available by the Swedish Civil Service Tribunal of the Petroleum Fund, appointed by this Government, made up of leading experts in this field and assessing the questions that the representative asked for an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e353	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e356	With regard to the ethical guidelines for the oil fund, the Government relies on minimum standards in relation to international law. International law is, as the Minister of Finance knows, a minimum common multiple of what it is possible to get to international. Norway has traditionally wanted to further develop and strengthen international law. It is absurd that Norway can come into a situation where we are working to develop international law in international bodies, while undermining the same objectives through investment through the oil fund. We can come up with the same absurd situation in relation to Norwegian aid, where on the one hand we use aid to clean up what on the other hand are investments made through the oil fund. Does the Minister of Finance think it is unproblematic to operate with double standards?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e363	It's not unproblematic to operate in the global economy, anyway. I think the representative Haga himself has experienced that. She was a member of a government that has proposed a number of weaker extraction mechanisms of the Petroleum Fund than this government proposes. Then human rights were not at all assessed. What they then came in and suggested was, among other things, withdrawing the Petroleum Fund from alcohol producers in the world. So while the Norwegian state produces alcohol, we should withdraw from companies internationally producing alcohol and sell it in Norway with high profits and high tax revenues. It's an example of some kind of dilemma, to say it carefully, which comes up in if you think the Petroleum Fund should be a policy body. I agree with the representative's emphasis on the need to extend international law, but I do not believe the spearhead to get it into is the Petroleum Fund, but international negotiations. Among other things, it relates to Storting's desire to go into it as simple but not very precise is described as the class bombing area, where one hopes to make agreements, but where it has proved very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e368	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e371	I want to ask the Minister of Finance a question. On SND's innovation dinner the other day, Jens Petter Ekorenes started on the need for a country that contributes to the establishment and development of district work places, with grants, loans and guarantees. The whole Moravian industry has been developed with such state aid, said Ekorenes. Thanks to the interaction and help from DU, the Industrial Fund, the Industrial Bank and now the SND, it has become industry everywhere and not just a little bit in Ålesund, as he thought it would be without that help. The co-operation management has taken most of the power from this auxiliaries. Why does the Government not hear of those in business who have experience, e.g. such as Ekorenes, who have joined the Right Management?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e381	This does show that even members of the Right Central Government must fight to get their views through. I believe that if you listen to an overall business life – and I listened with special interest to the organisations PIL, the process industry, and TBL, the technology companies, who have now especially warned about the pressing situation facing the export industry – they are not asking for an increase in the filling of municipal pension funds. They are asking for a policy that dampens the pressure on the crown, dampens the pressure on interest rates, and in other words helps the industry to get some easier conditions. SND still has good borrowing arrangements that can be a good grant to the capital available for profitable projects both in District Norway and in other parts of the country. As you know, there are also nationwide schemes within the SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e388	It was probably a premise that it was said that ‘municipal pension funds’, rather than non-profit funds, for non-profit funds are actually quite different from pension funds. This gets people working. Ekorenes is not alone in his views. This is what many people think. It turns out that there are too many people who give up and just flag their business because less help is now provided than before. Ekorenes, in his speech, said that technological innovation in the established industry is the best counterweight to flagging. In his group, the competence of the 1,300 heads and 13,000 fingers, as he said, is too valuable to move from. So he doesn't want to, but he says they need financial help from the state to get to the technological innovation. There's no way for SND to do anything anymore. It's not about loans. It's about help. And no one is forbidding us to support new technology and knowledge in businesses much more than what we are doing today. Why does the Government contribute to the deflagration of important jobs by cutting SND and preventing the necessary technological developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e397	I'd like to begin by regretting the delay. It was not pension funds, it was non-profit funds. You can probably get borrowed through pension funds too, but it was nurturing funds I aimed at in this context. The government's policy does not contribute to flagging out, but it is clear that in an open economy it will be felt that both private and state owned enterprises are relocated. We have examples of this at the latest today. Statoil assesses a relocation, even to our neighbouring country Sweden. I don't think any policy can prevent businesses from coming and going. On the technology side, this government has used stronger instruments than ever before, precisely through tax arrangements for R & D activities in enterprises, which are intended to help stimulate both technological development in existing enterprises, which Ekorenes talked about, in terms of his own activities, and, as I would like to emphasise, technological development in the form of innovation outside established enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e406	There will be follow-up questions – Eli Sollied Practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e409	I would like to remind you that the Mora and Romesdal states are the value creation states no. 1, and they've been major users of SND funds. I don't think the industry in More and Romesdal would have been what it is, without SND. It has been a targeted policy for innovation and innovation in existing companies. The Knowledge Park in Molde, opened by the Prime Minister this year, said yesterday that they will have problems if the SND funds don't increase. The newly elected central government member Jens Petter Ekorenes has quoted us, and I dare say that if anyone knows business better than Jens Petter Ekorenes, both in Møre and Romesdal and in the country otherwise. What basis does the Minister of Finance then have to doubt the strong warnings from the central government colleague when it comes to the value of SND, while we know that More and Romsdal are the value creation states. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e416	Fortunately, I'm not a judge in that competition, but More and Romsdal are a good treasurer, and fortunately we have more of them. It's not the government's policy to shut down SND. Several of the good instruments in terms of both technology development, low-risk loans and research and development contracts have been preserved and will be further developed. I think you should listen carefully to the people of business when it comes to drawing on your own experiences, but I'm not sure that all of the past experiences necessarily need to be the arrangements of the future. We also have to be willing to think about this area. This is part of the reason why the Government has initiated an evaluation of the entire instrument, including the SND, the Export Council, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e423	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e426	I agree with the Minister of Finance that the most important thing for Norwegian business is the overall economic policy. But within the overall financial framework at your disposal, you can make different choices. This government has chosen to significantly weaken the regional and food policy instruments. The overall impact on business of the cuts proposed in food and district policy will amount to DKK 1.7 billion because they trigger more money than is direct government. I note that the newly elected central government member of the Right, Jens Petter Ekorenes, called this a disaster. It was not the word of the Workers' Party, it was the word of the Ekore. I also note that the Government of the revised budget has not found any reason to rectify it. The new signal in the case of SND is that the Government grants money to cut 100 jobs in the SND. It means cut almost all of the counties. Is this a signal that they cut into the SND that was carried out in this year's budget, and that the Government has no ambition to follow up Ekore's desire to strengthen SND as an instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e433	Since Jens Petter Ekorenes has been brought into the debate, I have to add, for the sake of the whole: during an open debate with the Ekorenes at a meeting in Møre and Romesdal County, he was very clear that the overall impact of the budget presented by the Bondevik government was clearly better than the impact of the budget for the government that left the position. As far as the 2003 budget is concerned, I cannot address what concrete proposals the Government will promote in relation to the SND. But it's a point of building down a device that's too big in relation to the problems it's going to deal with. I have to say that I am much more concerned that SND has good arrangements that in addition trigger private capital than that of SND retaining all employees. Otherwise, the amount shows how expensive it is to convert a public appliance, with the take-off arrangements that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e440	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e443	First, I have to say that I think it is quite remarkable that the Minister of Finance does not fully know the difference between the Municipal Enterprise Fund and the SND. When he also thinks that there are too many tools, I think it's getting even worse. I would recommend the Minister of Finance to read SND's annual reports, which from 1997 documents that if SND had had more funds, they would have had projects lying down that they would have had companies on their legs, which would create jobs, and would have created values. In addition, the Minister of Finance believes that the main task of the State is clearly to provide low-risk loans — low-risk loans that can be largely financed in the private market — while risk loans are those that are lacking in the districts, because there is much less access to private loan capital. Is it government policy that you really don't want to start many small businesses in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e451	Yes, the government’s policy is to support innovation, conversion and start-up of businesses across Norway — of course also in the districts. I would like to point out that in the revised national budget, good figures have been shown to increase employment in Norway. The problem today in many parts of Norway is the lack of labour. This does not prevent a clear innovation perspective too. But the arrangements need to be modernised and adapted to the time we live in. I'm aware of the difference between SND and municipal nutrition funds, but I was actually asked about both.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e458	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e461	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for the Environment, Mr. Børge Burnde. For the Workers' Party, it is important to improve the availability of outdoors in Norway. Facilitating increased outdoor life is good environmental policy and good health policy, and it is important and valuable in itself. For the Workers' Party, it is particularly important to bet on children and young people's outdoors. One of the things many young people want to do is fish. Ten years ago, a majority in Stortinget insisted that all young people under the age of 16 should be fished free of charge by rods or handcuffs in Norwegian watercourses. Now, ten years later, a debate has arisen in which landowners will refuse children and young people this right to fish free of charge. Among other things, it was claimed to be contrary to the Constitution. My question to the Council of State is, What does he think of such a claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e470	First, I would like to say to the representative, Mr Konglevoll, that I fully agree that outdoor life is of great value. In fact, nine out of ten Nordics are of the opinion that there is the most preventive health work available. So to this with hunting and fishing: As far as I understand, some landowners around Hardangervidda have now gone to the step of wanting to sue the state in relation to a previous decision to settle, where it was opened for children and young people under the age of 16 to get fishing free of charge in various lakes and water. If that's how this case will come to trial, I don't think I'm going to say anything more about it. Of course, the government is concerned with the decision of the Storting. And I agree with the current policy in this area, that children and young people under the age of 16 should be able to fish free of charge in our fish water.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e479	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a very careful answer. But let me challenge him a little bit further. In April 2001, the Workers' Party issued a call for proposals on open-air policy. When Børge Brende took over as Minister of Environmental Protection after Siri Bjerke, the government chose not to draw the outdoor news. That means you can assume that they supported most of what was said there. With regard to the issues we are discussing now, the right to free fishing for children and young people, the Workers' Party proposed to extend the right to free fishing, up to the age of 18. We found many good arguments to raise the age limit to 18 years. These include: the age of authority in Norway. But at the hearing in Stortinget they just protested with basic ownership interests in the cause, and thus bowed down the government parties. Unfortunately, there was no majority in favour of raising the age limit to 18 years. My question is, if the Council of State is concerned with children and young people's right to outdoor life, why won't he be involved in raising the age limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e490	First, I would like to say that some of the most positive children and young people can work with are, of course, outdoors. Organising it through an active open-air policy will work a lot in the future. The attitude of Stortinget in this case was very good. What the majority of the Committee chose to do was not free fishing for those between 16 and 18 years of age, but the Committee asked the Government to consider whether a discount scheme could be developed for those between 16 and 18 years of age. I've taken note of that, and I'm working on that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e497	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e500	I am very pleased that the Minister for the Environment takes this issue seriously, but I would like to warn a little about discount schemes that could lead to greater bureaucracy. So I'd like to get into a TV show I watched yesterday, which was actually a good illustration of how happy kids can be to be with Dad on a fishing trip. Axle said it's fun to fish, but it's stupid to have to pay for it. Shouldn't the council give Aksel and other children the opportunity to really hit the table and say that it should be free to fish even in large lakes like Mjösa, which is close to my heart. It can't be that children should stand with their hands and hope for the bounty and goodness of the owner of the land to be allowed to fish a little in God's free nature. In addition, the Minister of Finance has now declined to charge customs duties on fishing rods, so there are also opportunities to follow up on this. I beg the Council of State so deeply that he can reconsider the Government's position not to raise the age limit to 18 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e509	The size is now tense as to whether the Minister for the Environment will give a clapping on the axle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e512	I believe that the Minister for the Environment should deal with what the majority in the European Parliament has stated, namely that we should maintain the system of free fishing for children and young people under 16 years of age, and that we should try to work out a moderation system for those between 16 and 18 years of age. I also want to add that we have a very large state opinion in Norway, where fishing is freely available, both for children and young people as well as for those of us who are a little older, who are out with the children. I have also said yes to attending a large event that the Hunters and Fishermen's Association will have in June, together with children and young people who are going to have fishing rods, and who are going to go out and use nature. I agree with the representative Fallet that we should be careful about this with bureaucracy. So we're going to really work on that arrangement. Moreover, it is positive that politicians are also fishing. I noticed that former Prime Minister Stoltenberg, after a fishing trip with his son, chose to go in to remove the entire fee scheme that applied to, among other things. fishing in the general public, which was then a fishing fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e523	The President will assume that at least voice fishing will also be free in the future. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e529	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Some time ago, the government set up a so-called tax committee, which was given a very broad mandate. This means that the vast majority of tax types are included in the assessments to be made by the Commission or the sample. In addition, they have a 10 billion proceeds limit. 10 billion is about 10 billion dollars. 2.5 pst. of the tax revenue received by the country from mainland Norway. It's pretty much nothing other than what we're adjusting the tax and tax estimates with because of the annual price increase. In addition, we know that removing the property tax takes 8 of the 10 billion. I have two questions for the Minister of Finance. The first is whether he thinks that the proceeds are enough to get some real grip on the transformation of the tax system into a more fair system. The second question is referred to the opinions of economist Terje Hansen relating to who is actually paying property taxes in Norway today, where it is stated that there are essentially pensioners who have paid off debts over a long life and who now have money on book.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e540	The Skauge committee is not a so-called tax sample, it's a tax sample. It has a good mandate, in line with the Storting decision. It is not the government that has given the mandate, but we have expanded it somewhat. Among other things, we have asked the selection to investigate both an alternative so-called ‘progeny neutral’ and an option that would bring total relief of DKK 10 billion. There will be no problem either for government or for accumulation based on such a selection position to go further beyond 10 billion or to reduce the relief by 10 billion. It's not a bond. It's an extension, which will be part of the setting. My experience is that the Progress Party has never had any difficulty in proposing reduced taxes, taxes, rates and deductions. You don't want that here either. So the sample does not bind anything. Professor Terje Hansen – whom I often listen to, which I also enjoyed at a similar seminar in the previous growing-up period – pointed in this context to a number of opportunities for sharing. We're aware of them. He also pointed to the so-called 80 p.m. rule, which prevents the sum of employee income and capital income for some particular wealth from becoming so high that the tax is higher than the wage. It's a delimitation rule that I think it makes sense to have if you want Norwegian capital in Norway, and not invested abroad instead. I think one should think well before attacking large Norwegian assets stronger than what we already do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e557	Terje Hansen has, among other things: also pointed out that this system is — what he has called — ‘three times the rate of interest tax’ on pensioners in the country, so there is much more in it than how the tax affects them so-called rich in Norway. I think it's interesting when the finance minister says that this sample doesn't bind anything. In reality, it must mean that the Minister of Finance is dealing with the idea of making concrete proposals for tax reductions, for example a reduction in the wealth tax, because it cannot be that we in the Grand Duchy are now going to sit and wait for the outcome of the tax committee, which is unlikely to come to the Grand Duchy until the beginning of the 2004 government budget. This means that it will be at least one or two years before we receive a proposal for tax relief of importance for treatment in Stortinget. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that he has not intended to wait for the tax committee to come up with proposals for other tax reliefs to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e566	The question asked by the representative is what tax proposals will be included in the 2003 budget. I can answer that only to confirm that it will also contain proposals for tax changes towards relief. The main issues relating to the tax system, where appropriate combined with tax incentives, which have been included in the mandate of the Skauge Committee, are my plan for the Stortinget to be addressed in the form of a communication in spring 2003. Depending on the outcome of that treatment, the proposals will be included in the State budget for the following year. I guess it's common when you put down a sample, that you're actually waiting for the setting to come. I have to say that the mandate of the committee is so demanding that they have significant challenges ahead of them in the relatively short period of time that they have been given, namely at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e575	Within the regulatory time of the spontaneous Question Time, we raise a main question to – Karl-Anton Swensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e578	My question will go to the Minister for the Environment. First of all, I would like to commend the Minister of the Environment and the Government for the efforts they have made and that they are making in putting an end to the emissions of the Sellafield plant in the United Kingdom. But eventually it's pretty clear that the British authorities will provide the green light for our new emissions permit. There has been a clear signal that it will come in the near future. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: What will the Minister for the Environment's response to any UK authorities' emissions permit be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e587	I will first return the honor to the Coastal Party for the commitment shown in the case of Sellafield. I don't think we've heard the last word in Stortinget about the large Sellafield plant. What the government has concentrated most on in the last six months is the issue of the emission permit of the radioactive substance technetium-99. The United Kingdom has chosen to drop this directly into the sea, while, for example, the French in the corresponding La Hague reprocessing plant cleans it and stores the residual waste so that it is not driven into the sea. Therefore, it is fully possible for the United Kingdom to clean and store technetium-99. The problem is that they have a lot of old waste lying around that they haven't handled, and that they now choose to drive out into the sea. We protest that strongly. Environmental Agency in the United Kingdom, which corresponds to State pollution control, has recommended that these emissions be continued until 2006 — at least it has been said to be acceptable. This is now on the British Environment Minister's table. We have run a tough race in order to create either a moratorium in relation to stopping discharge or starting a clean-up of these emissions. I am also aware that this emission permit is just around the corner. We thought it would come before Christmas, but I believe that due to the strong Norwegian pressure that has been, we have spent longer time deciding on this. We continue the political pressure against the English Government. We have different steps to take in the next few weeks, and we hope, of course, that we will have a positive decision that goes in the direction of purification or a moratorium. I notice that the representative doesn't look too optimistic about the result, but now I'm just waiting for the further development without going into and characterizing it any further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e600	I am very pleased with the clear and clear attitude and firmness of the Government in this matter, and I am convinced, like the Minister for the Environment, that, among other things. has been involved in and contributed to the suspension and suspension of the emissions permit. Whether I'm optimistic or pessimistic about it, I see that this is a long fight, and that here it's about putting in the necessary resources to stop these emissions from the Sellafield plant. But I'm also aware that the grips that you might want to do from the government's side in the future may be involved in putting a further pressure on the treatment of these problems. It should be noted that the radioactive emissions from the Sellafield plant are not reversible and that they remain in our marine areas and in nature in the foreseeable future. I would therefore just like to praise the Government and encourage them to stand on their feet to stop these emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e609	One of the major paradoxes in this case is that the United Kingdom itself says that they will not store technetium-99 and residual waste underground at the Sellafield plant because it can damage groundwater, it can run out. It's the same authorities that say that this we can just run out as waste, because it's not dangerous. Here there has actually been some development in the British rhetoric in the matter. It is now recognised that radioactivity has increased along the entire Norwegian coast and that it has increased due to emissions from the Sellafield plant. It is true, as the representative also stresses, that the half-life of technetium-99 is 213 000 years, so it is absolutely irrevocable if you drive this out into the sea. One never gets it up again, and we have to live with this in the future. We therefore hope that the United Kingdom will meet our demand to stop emissions, but like the representative, I see no reason to overstress expectations. But if you don't meet us, there will be very strong reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e616	As far as the President could hear, there is a not insignificant degree of agreement between the questioner and the answerer. The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e624	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Eirin Fallet to the Minister of Culture and the Church, is answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Question 8, from the representative of Åsa Elvik to the Minister for Health, is raised by the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen. Question 35, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e643	I will ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Eigendom taxes have previously been introduced in Arendal and Grimstad. People here race, and several lawsuits are going on against illegally imposed property taxes. In Homborsund recently won the residents of Sand District Court, and it was determined that Grimstad Municipality did not have the right to introduce property taxes there. Property taxes are often a source of numerous conflicts and lawsuits between the municipality and its inhabitants. Will the Government consider removing or reconsidering parts of this hated housing tax in the near future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e652	Property tax is a purely municipal tax. The outsourcing is part of municipal autonomy, so it is the municipality that decides where to print property taxes. In the municipalities where such taxes are issued, it is up to each local government to decide on the objects on which to print property taxes, within the limits of the law. This is part of municipal autonomy, which there is reason to defend. The legal criteria for the issue of property taxes in residential areas are: ‘...in whole or in incomplete urban areas, or where such development is in progress’. Such a wording is discretionary. This has, in practice, created uncertainty in many municipalities and has in several cases led to processes between them and the inhabitants. I agree that this is unfortunate. In view of the problems related to the current property tax law of 1975, the Ministry of Finance set up a sample in 1995 to investigate the current property tax law and propose amendments. The committee was chaired by Professor Frederik Zimmer and gave its position in 1996. The majority of the committee recommended that property taxes be passed on, but at the same time suggested several changes to the current law. The selection pointed out, among other things: on the need to reform the rules on the definition and valuation of property for property tax purposes. The committee proposed that property taxes in a municipality should in case cover all residential properties, regardless of their congested or scattered location. The Government has not yet taken a decision on whether or not to follow up the work of the sample. Other aspects of capital taxation currently have a higher priority. It is shown here, among others. to the Skauge Committee, mentioned in the spontaneous Question Time, how significant work is being done. I therefore consider it appropriate to await the suspension of the Skage Committee so that the continued fate of property tax can be assessed in combination with other measures or changes in capital taxation. I am of the opinion that taxes on owner-occupied dwellings should be limited. This is an important reason for, among other things: The City Council here in Oslo, consisting of the three government parties, has abolished the property tax, despite the fact that it is known that the Cooperative Government will abolish the housing tax during this large-scale period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e665	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was clear enough. We have now again confirmed what the tax relief party in the Right believes about the property tax on private houses. According to the Foss State Council, it is therefore entirely right that local politicians should be free to impose this very unfair property tax on the inhabitants of a municipality. But the law doesn't get any better because the Right believes that the property tax belongs to local self-government. I'd rather say the opposite. That's what makes the law so bad. Once the law is there, there should at least be changes on some points, and it is extremely diffuse when the law says that property taxes can only be introduced in urbanly developed areas, and nothing more than that. It is a major problem in the case of property taxes, to determine what is urbanly developed and what is not urbanly developed, and this becomes hopelessly hopeless to deal with too many local politicians. Now, of course, the Council of State is aware of this significant ambiguity in the law, but should he not do anything to clarify the law more in this area? What's urban? What's not urban?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e674	I think this comment was written before the answer was given, because I actually did not answer what the representative is now repeating. I replied that we would consider the question of a possible revision after we have received the Skauge Committee's suspension. I also said that the party I represent has, on many occasions, also gone against municipal property taxes, but that as long as there is an freedom of choice, this election is actually on the local parties, and not on government and big business. That's what I thought was actually part of the generally accepted view of local democracy. The government has no plans to propose changes to the definition of urbanly or partially ‘built-in’, as stated in the law, before considering the law. I record that it does not intend to do so either, as it has never been proposed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e681	I thank the Council once again for the answer. Let me mention that in Sand District Court in Grimstad it was recently stated in a judgment that in an area west of Grimstad Municipality property tax was introduced illegally. It was not developed urbanly. Now there are new legal cases under way in the neighbouring municipality of Arendal, where many people believe that they have been illegally taxed on their private homes in areas that absolutely cannot be defined as urbanly developed. Over the years, there have been numerous cases that have even reached the Supreme Court on this very last question. What is urbanly developed and what is non-urbanly developed? I believe that there is waste of time and power for the public as well as for individuals when you have to spend so much time and resources having all these rounds in the courtroom about something that I think is a pointless arrangement. I will therefore end by encouraging the Council of State to work to abolish the Property Tax Act in the near future as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e692	The law of initiative in the area of law enforcement is also in Stortinget. I remember it. I am aware that there are many legal cases concerning the interpretation here, and I could expand with examples from far outside the Aust-Agder state. We'll always have such legal disputes, as long as the law is bound to limit. That's the problem. In other words, I am in doubt whether it is appropriate to propose a more precise delineation before Stortinget has been given an overall assessment of the law as regards municipal property tax. I have the impression that there is a broad connection in Stortinget, because no one has actually suggested any other approach. That's why I think we're going to wait for an audit until we've seen it as part of a more total capital tax, as I mentioned in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e702	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘At Stavanger Airport, Sola, there were no customs officers present in all Easter. Nor at the Danish ferry in Egersund were checks carried out. The South-Rogaland Toller Association reports a reduction in the budget and thus reduced the availability of e.g. controls. the availability of drugs. In many municipalities, there is an increased effort to reduce the huge social problems caused by drug abuse. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure greater access to drug access control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e711	The Government wants to strengthen its control activities. In the context of the revised national budget, the Government proposes inter alia: an increase of the operational budget by 20 million. kr to strengthen control activity. The border control of the establishment is an important tool for preventing the illegal import and export of goods, including: drugs, alcohol and tobacco. Strengthened border controls will provide more border controls and lead to more seizures. Furthermore, the Government proposes that it be set at 40 million. kr for the acquisition of mobile container scanning equipment, etc. It is currently very resource-intensive to go through entire cargoes. It may take up to one day to empty and control a trailer or a container. These machinery can reasonably quickly penetrate entire containers and vehicles of the size of combinations of vehicles so that checks can be carried out to a greater extent than before. It is expected that the measure will have a preventive effect and that the control of goods will be more effective. This will be a good tool to combat, among other things. drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings. The Government sets out in detail the proposals for strengthening the establishment of the revised national budget. The presence of customs authorities at individual border crossing points is generally assessed and guided by an overall risk assessment of cross-border traffic, with a view to making the most effective use of available control resources, in particular with a view to preventing drug smuggling. In other words, at the time and at border stations where the threat picture and traffic indicate that the need is greatest, controls are the most frequent. In the Rogaland customs district, the Customs and Charges Directorate stated that during the Easter weekend the risk was considered to be very low. It was therefore decided not to implement specific control measures but only to have control resources in place. In addition, national controls of the establishment led to seizures of, among others, More than 2 kg of amphetamine, more than 1 kg of cocaine and 117 kg of cannabis resin during Easter days. In order to maximise the use of the budget framework of the establishment, strict requirements must always be laid down for the organisation of activities, for working methods and for the proper use of resources. In parallel with a real strengthening of the budgets of the establishment, as the Government now proposes, the Ministry of Finance has therefore requested the Directorate of Customs and Fees to carry out a review of the organisation of district management in view of a more efficient use of resources and treatment of goods subject to customs and excise duties. The government intends to refer the matter to Stortinget in the State budget for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e731	I thank you for a positive answer. It is good to hear that the Government is busy strengthening its control of drug access. It is now clear from the revised budget that there is not so much hope for those who believed that the government would also strengthen the treatment page. There is also a strong need to strengthen local authorities’ ability to promote prevention. We're going to have to get back to that in a different context. Let me go into the basics given by the Minister of Finance in the revised budget, because in connection with these 20 million people, it has been said that something should go to bookkeeping, and something should go to border control. Is it the case that there will be means to strengthen border control beyond the Swedish border?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e740	I shouldn't answer that, because it is the customs tariff that is going to make such an overall assessment. It is not the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance who is to assess the current threat picture, i.e. where, among other things, one is to be found. know that there is a high risk of smuggling based on intelligence reports. Today, customs controls are fortunately carried out using more advanced methods than then the asker and I myself were somewhat younger, to say it carefully. In other words, international intelligence reports and police cooperation are the basis for the customs disposal of resources. Just based on such an overall assessment, I referred to the Tollvesen assessment of what is well mentioned as the ongoing threat picture. Just that assessment, the Customs Authority must have a professional independence to make. What I'm emphasising is that the Customs Administration in Norway, through the acquisition of the so-called scanner, as I mentioned in my answer, has at least got some of the most modern equipment available internationally to take new types of smuggling through new channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e747	It is good that Customs is given new opportunities to use advanced equipment. Nevertheless, the customs authorities must at all times carry out their risk assessments in accordance with their budgets. As a result, it is not insignificant how much of these 20 million people could control access to drugs. In 2001, the Rogaland Customs Centre seized almost 66 000 user doses of drugs. There is no small number. Tolls in Kristiansand, Bergen and Trondheim are in a similar situation to those in Stavanger. I'm worried about the one-sided focus on Svinesund and the Swedish border, and the signals it gives in relation to being able to freely enter the country via other cities. I therefore ask the State Council Foss, who is responsible for the Ministry of Finance, to follow closely, so that the Tollvesen gets the funds they are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e756	I closely follow up on this as well. If I can't guarantee that you get what you're asking for, the Customs Department is among the departments of the Ministry of Finance that have been significantly strengthened. It is part of the international fight against crime in which Norway is to participate. I focus on not letting myself be involved in regional conflicts about which customs offices will receive what resources, but that the professional management of the establishment will make that assessment on the basis of a comprehensive picture. That, I think, is important based on an overall assessment of the possibilities of seizing and combating various types of crime. So I don't have any special – it's probably called Norwegian – ‘hang-up’, i.e. a love, for Svinesund or Gardermoen or what it might be. It's just a matter of taking the basements where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e763	The President does not know whether 'hang-up' is a parliamentary expression, but will let it pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e769	This question, from Eirin Fallet to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e772	I allow myself to ask the question to the Minister of Justice, who was basically the addressee I thought this question was sorted under. The question is as follows: ‘I am aware that the Norwegian Arbedersangerverbund has received a refusal to be a lottery organisation. Why can't Norwegian Arbedersangerbund be allowed to do so, and will the Council of State contribute to this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e781	It is the Lottery Authority that has dealt with the application from the Norwegian Arbedersangerbund. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has obtained a report from the Lottery Authority on the handling of the case, including: it shall be stated as follows: ‘There is a long-standing practice in interpreting the Lottery Act in terms of adult choirs. In Ot.prp. No 84 pts. [[1998-99]] 5.1.1 p 27 For adults, singing choirs are mentioned as examples of hobbies and recreational associations which according to practice are not eligible for lottery. Only in very special cases can the social significance of the association lead to a hobby and leisure association for adults being accepted as a lottery. A choir is primarily of social importance to the members of the choir and, according to established practice, this also applies if the choir has acted for others. Norsk Arbedersangerverband has not documented the extent of the activities of individual choirs in relation to the question of possible social significance for non-self-members. Therefore, the Lottery Authority did not find it possible to place decisive emphasis on this element.’ It is also clear from the statement of the Lottery Authority that, in its complaint against the decision of the Lottery Authority in the case, Norsk Arbedersangerbund stated that they are active among children and young people. It was stated that the Norwegian Arbedersangerbund organises 78 choirs in total, of which two or three choirs have members under the age of 18. From the accounts for the years 1999 and 2000, no operating costs for related children’s and young people’s committees are identified. Lottery officials found that the choir could not be assigned lottery tickets on this basis either. The decision of the Lottery Authority was taken on 3 August 2001 and appealed by letter of 14 August 2001. The decision of the Lottery Authority was maintained by Decision of 17 December 2001 in Lotternemanda, which is the body of appeal in such cases. I consider, on the basis of the above, that the case is finally settled and closed, and also emphasise that the Ministry of Culture and the Church does not have the authority to instruct the Lottery Authority or Lottery Department in such cases. However, I would point out that the question of who should be given the opportunity to hold lotteries will be further discussed in the context of an odelstingsproposition on the lottery and gamblinglegislation expected to be transmitted to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e796	I thank you first of all for the answer, but I'm a little sorry that we can't give these choirs the opportunity to do the lottery. Of course, it delights those who are in the choir, but it does not prevent it from pleasing others as well – there is no contradiction in it. When they haven't written in their duck that they're pleasing others, it might be because of modesty. But I and many others can confirm that the choirs do most of the social work. I therefore think that there must be an opportunity to look at the reasons and the possibility of allowing how few lotteries to some extent. Then I think about the amount limit e.l.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e801	After what I said in my answer, and after the end I had there, the government in the autumn of 2002 aims to put forward an odelstningsproposition where one looks at lottery purposes. Then the representative has a chance to do something. In general, as the representative says, there's a limit of $100,000. Under that limit, you have to be very liberal. So today, according to my knowledge, the same delimitation of purpose applies both above and below NOK 100000. Without going into the place of another Council of State, I am quite sure that the general issues formulated by the representative in his comment to me will be considered in the context of the work on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e808	It is also stated in the rejection that the term ‘social benefit’ provides for a very broad interpretation. That's what we can depend on. I am pleased that we will see this in its entirety, as there is of course reason to consider many aspects of this case. I can at least confirm that the vast majority of the choirs are doing a social work. They're happy for others. In Hedmark, we are so lucky that we have a great crowd called the Trade Unions' League, and they are doing a very good and socially useful work. It's on this background, and singing as such, I hope we can find a solution to this, so that the choir can meet its economic needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e815	My answer has two sides. One side is the string. It was about having a very random practice in its time when it was about lotteries, so the law, as I've shown here, tried to put some clearer lines into practice. Then it was discovered that some fell outside and some fell within, slightly varying in relation to what had been local practice. But the purpose was that the law should be what should be valid. The other side is that when the Ministry of the Church and Culture is now working on this odelstingsproposition, it has of course caught up with the fact that a debate is taking place, among other things. in the case of the examples taken by the representative. I can't say anything else now but that I'm pretty sure those questions will be evaluated, and that there will also be the occasion for the Storting to just look at how to view this in relation to the definition of the purpose, and also in relation to the limit set. I will not process the case on behalf of either the Government or the Stortinget in advance, but I think I can add these general comments to my reply to the representative to her questions and comments to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e822	It may seem like there's hope in hanging strings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e829	‘Today, victims of violence and sexual assault committed in Norway are granted the right to an aid lawyer under Section 107a of the Criminal Procedures Act. Norwegian travel habits have changed significantly in recent years. This has also resulted in a higher rate of sexual assault and gross foreign violence. Is there sufficient authority in Norwegian legislation to allow victims of violence and victims of sexual abuse to receive financial support for local counsel abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e836	The provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act on the right to an aid lawyer do not regulate cases where the offence has been committed abroad. Thus, the aid lawyer scheme does not initially apply in criminal proceedings dealt with by a foreign court. The reason for this is that each country itself is responsible for the follow-up to the criminal offences committed on its territory. Therefore, as a general rule, a Norwegian citizen who has been subjected to abuse or violence abroad shall make use of the arrangements in place in the country where the offence is dealt with. However, if a country does not have a satisfactory legal aid scheme or legal aid offer, it may, in some cases, apply for assistance under the Norwegian legal aid scheme. Such an application shall be dealt with by the county council with the Ministry of Justice as the Board of Appeal. The Norwegian Law on Legal Aid does not initially apply to legal assignments abroad. However, after a concrete assessment, legal aid costs abroad may be covered. The Ministry of Justice receives very few requests for free legal assistance in criminal matters abroad. Over the last few years, we have only dealt with one handful of such applications. Several of these are accepted. On this basis, I assume that there is sufficient authority in Norwegian law to provide financial support to a local aid lawyer abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e851	The personal suffering often experienced by victims does not diminish if the offence has occurred abroad. Often, in very many cases, discouragement and hopelessness are felt more strongly precisely because the abuse occurred in an unknown environment outside Norway. It is as the Minister of Justice said here that legal aid needs to be sought in the country where the offence has taken place. But it is well that when hopelessness and discouragement are greater, it is perhaps most difficult to find out the arrangements in these countries, so I would say that the arrangements are rather weak. Therefore, perhaps the Minister should consider not to have a scheme here in Norway, so that it would be easier to obtain an assistant lawyer abroad, in the country where the offence occurred. I have examples of this. It also appears that exceptional paragraphs are often used by the county to find possible alternatives for the provision of both victims’ and partially free legal assistance. Does the Minister think this is a good practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e862	As far as legislation is concerned in the different countries, I have said in the main reply that there is a basis in Norway for obtaining legal aid on specific applications. We have not received many such applications, but the legislation thus provides an opening for what the representative is concerned about. Then I have to add that the Norwegian aid lawyer scheme is based on the fact that the aid lawyer has a right to participate in the legal proceedings and, as you can see, has a procedural role. There are countries where there is no aid lawyer scheme, where the actor is assumed to be involved. It is not always stated that a lawyer paid by the Norwegian State can act in the same way as in Norway, because there are simply different procedural rules. When you look at the openings we have in the law and are going to assess the cost of the lawyer for the victim, you have to pay attention to whether the lawyer can actually and legally assist the victim in the trial in a sensible way. Otherwise, I am generally familiar with the fact that the Norwegian foreign service does so in many such contexts, and I also know such individual matters from my former function as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e871	Thanks for the answer. That's often what I said, that discouragement and hopelessness are very great. Often, these victims suffer from severe mental disorders. A public bureaucracy in Norway is being met through the county, which takes a very long time to process the applications received. There are also very strict documentation requirements for payments. And even if they have fallen in the respective country, they also say from the county – I have a letter on it – that they are waiting until possible appeals are made. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: can he be involved in influencing, so that the county authorities in such cases are more helpful in relation to the victims than is the case today, and that you are on the side of the victims, so that the victims do not feel a hopelessness in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e880	I have said in the main reply that we have the authority and also an opportunity to provide legal assistance. Of course, if there are aspects of administrative practices that can be made simpler and better, so that the victim can have the opportunities provided by Norwegian legislation, I am always willing to look at it. I would also like to receive specific examples and experiences. At least the method of handling shall not be delaying. After all, we have the openings we have, where we have the opportunity, like I said we have, and we're going to do what we can after a concrete assessment. And is that what the representative says, that we have unnecessary delaying terms, of course, it's always something I'm willing to look at, including. from the point of view of victims formulated by the representative in a very clear manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e887	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e896	‘The policy reform would contribute to more police services closer to the population. However, the reform appears to have had some misunderstandings. The resource situation in e.g. Follo police districts appear to be far worse than comparable districts, with a view to both job homes and budgeting against the number of criminal cases and population density. Does the Council consider that the resources in the police sector are fairly distributed between districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e903	The Police and National Assembly is now in the midst of a comprehensive reform, which has recently merged, and thus reduced, the number of districts from 54 to 27. There are clear expectations that this will bring benefits in the form of a more services-oriented and public-oriented police force, and there is a need to continue and strengthen the decentralised local police force. In the context of the reform, a revised staffing plan is now being drawn up in accordance with the new police district structure. This plan will correct any imbalances in the distribution of the annual work framework to the districts. In addition, the Police Directorate has started similar work in relation to a future budget allocation model. The model will be used for the 2003 financial year. The distortions arising from the merger in individual districts are offset for the current year. Follo Police District is one of these districts. In this context, the police district will be monitored in particular to compensate for the manning bias as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e914	I thank you for your answer. It is not so often, nor should it be so often, that questions about the organisation of public services are raised by Stortinget. But there are two reasons for doing so in this case. Firstly, we are facing a new reform, and it is therefore important to have the effect across the country. The reason why I'm drawing up Follo police districts is precisely the skepticism of the number of posts, and to the extent that the skepticism of the district has arisen in budgetary matters. In this way, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice shares my view that there has been a skepticism here. But this bias is such that I will challenge the Minister of Justice somewhat and ask him when this revised crew plan will be in place, and especially when you want to compensate for the distortions of staffing in the Follo police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e921	Yes, at the end of the day, I have already in my main response answered «as soon as possible». As regards the new budgetary allocation model, it will apply from 2003. I would like to say to the representative that I think it is legitimate to address most of the questions. After all, it was at a certain time that the Stortinget asked about the individual officer position at the individual Länsmannskontoret. We are no longer there because, among other things, has had a police reform that has introduced a ethic management through the Police Directorate. When I chose to take the representative's question positively, it is because I felt that there was a general consideration in the back of it, and I therefore also chose to go in concretely and comment on this special police district. In general, I want to say that when the reorganisation takes place, it happens with a different rug in the different parts of the country, so that there is not always a get the effects at the same time everywhere. On Follo police districts, I would nevertheless say, regardless of the question, that there is a district I have followed with very positive interest. These included: in another role in my life, to inspire me to contribute to the phenomenon of Catch, which goes after organized crime, where this district has made exemplary efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e930	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for both answers. I think it is so reassuring in terms of the allocation of resources, and I think we agree on why it is important that we also correct the distortions. Another measure — this is moving beyond the issue of the number of posts and the size of the budget — is the important relationship in the police districts if more impact is achieved in the fight against crime, and if the expectations of profit in the form of more service-oriented and public-oriented police approaches. It might be interesting to ask at this point about the thoughts and ideas of the Council of State, and to the extent that concrete action is envisaged by the Ministry of Justice, to measure precisely this effect of police restructuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e937	The methods of measurement are well known, for example: through the instructions developed by the national lawyer, who is in the course of proceedings and who is on a percentage of clarification. There has also been a debate about measuring by other means; but I will not go into it here. What I think you have to expect is that when people take part in the police reform with great enthusiasm, which is my impression, it may in some places mean that for a short period of time, it can hit parts of the police services, just to get new systems in place. Just that, for example. to create new organisational models for people who have been in and who are going out, to move on in service arrangements across larger districts, and to set up an operating centre to function, for example. for a whole group, it is in itself quite significant conversion work. My general impression is that the police, from the base plane up to the top and down again, participate in this with considerable enthusiasm, while having a pressure to be close to the audience. Nevertheless, I think you'll be open enough to see – and I think the Storting should have – that for a period of time, even if you have enthusiasm, you can't deliver everything. I follow it carefully, both by visiting the police districts and by being with the police in everyday work to experience the different impulses. Then I will come back in an appropriate manner as soon as practicable, to the representative of Storberget's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e956	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e962	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In an article in the daily newspaper of 18 April of this year, there is an ‘appointed alarm’ for a non-controlling infectious disease in Ullevål Hospital. According to the infectious agent, death and unnecessary suffering are daily due to low levels of infection protection. There is further reason to believe that this situation does not only concern this hospital. What will the Council of State do to improve the protection of the disease in Norwegian hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e971	In my presentation to the Stortinget on 25 April this year in connection with the so-called Dent-O-Sept case, I stressed that the infection protection must be given the necessary focus in the hospital's internal control and quality work. Hospitals and other health care institutions are required to prevent and control hospital infections under the terms of the Code. The regulation imposes inter alia: all health institutions to have an infection control programme. Furthermore, arrangements must be in place for the registration, notification, analysis and reporting of hospital infections. The incidence of hospital infections is still too high, with about 45000 cases per year. Overcoating and other physical conditions may increase the risk of transmission. This needs to be taken more into account by hospitals in planning and operation. Efforts in the field of general infectious and hospital hygiene, including hand hygiene, must be stepped up. I want to ensure that the weaknesses revealed in the hospital reporting procedures are followed up. The State Health Authority has met with the professional associations on this occasion. In St. prp. No 54 for 2001-2002 the Government has proposed strengthening the Infectious Disease Notification System (MSIS). By doing the MSIS system electronically, you will, among other things: be able to reduce the time required to detect outbreaks of infectious diseases. During the spring, I will present a bill proposing that the State Health Authority should be given a sanction authority when supervision orders are not complied with. As mentioned above, I will follow up on the improvement of hospital protection and, if necessary, use the department's ownership position for this. In this connection, the Ministry of Health has written to the hospital owners, the five regional health companies, on 19 April this year in connection with the Dent-O-Sept case, among others. the following: ‘On 18.04.02..., all regional health establishments confirmed that they were undertaking a systematic follow-up and corrective action. This work is based on the assessments and recommendations made in the present reports, which involve both short-term measures and a holistic, long-term and systematic effort to ensure that the conditions referred to, such as systems of infection protection, reporting obligations and other statutory systems, function in accordance with the requirements laid down.’;» I would like to make it clear that this is in line with the principles of responsibility laid down in the legislation, where the direct responsibility for the protection of infectious diseases in hospitals has been assigned to the individual health business and to the regional health businesses. Hand washing is a small measure with a high impact on the protection of infectious diseases in hospitals. The National Public Health Service is preparing a national hand hygiene campaign in all national health institutions and the campaign will be followed up by an annual hand hygiene day. The health care providers are specialised at the Public Health Institute to monitor hospital infections and to carry out practical infection protection activities. They constitute the backbone of the hospital's work in this field. In February, all the country’s health nurses were together for follow-up training at the Public Health Institute, and this is followed up until the autumn. Twice a year, an overall national measurement is made of the number of patients who have a hospital infection and this is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e991	I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer. Like in the statement made by the Minister of Health in this Chamber on the Dent-O-Sept case, the Minister of Health clearly shows that this is an area where he wants to bet on and get something done about. I think that's very positive. But one of the biggest problems we have in Norwegian hospitals about preventing infection is contact isolates at the Norwegian hospitals. The Health Authority has recommended that approx. 10 pst. The number of sick beds should be contact infectious isolates, whereas, as was the case in 2001, this figure was no higher than 4.2 pst. Then this started to be small according to what the Health Authority recommended. In addition, when we look at the problem of Corridor Asians, the problem of cleaning as a result of Corridor Asians, and the stress of the hospital staff, we see that these things are closely related to what is also going on in the field of infectious diseases. Will the Council of State contact the health regions in order to increase the number of contact infectious isolates?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1002	It is true, as the representative Nesvik points out, that there is still too little capacity in the case of contactitis isolates in Norwegian hospitals. However, there has been a positive trend, with the proportion of beds for this purpose in 1997 being 2.8 pst. and a follow-up survey in 2001 showed that it was 4.2 pst. I am aware that the recommended objective has not yet been achieved, but in relation to the extension issues in the hospitals that will come in the future, it will be an important element to address the needs in this area. At the same time, I would say that the entire Dent-O-Sept case has been a waker for all health professionals. I hardly think there is any health professionals in Norway who have not talked about what you can learn from this case. I believe that in itself will contribute to strengthening both the knowledge base and the attitudes in this area. And that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1009	I thank you again for the answer. I have to agree with the Minister of Health in most of what he said, but he did not answer the question that I asked about the Minister of Health will take an initiative towards the individual regional health companies just to push on, so that we get an increase in the number of contact infections in Norwegian hospitals. I think there might be a little puff in that case to get a further increase of those so badly needed beds that we want in these departments. In the case of the isolate itself, I can only refer to a previous case from my own home country. The children's ward in the hospital in Ålesund had a tiny little room where you placed a child for a lot of days, because it was the only option for isolates. Clearly, these things are linked. If we don't have enough isolate beds, we can't stop the possible spread of bacteria, etc., as we want. So I hope that the Minister of Health can give a positive response that he will contact regional health companies to improve this situation quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1020	I want to do several things that I have addressed in my previous answers. Firstly, new revised guidelines for the use of isolation to prevent the spread of infectious diseases in hospitals are now being worked on. It will be followed up with respect to the undertakings. Secondly, as I have also explained in a case that is now being dealt with in the Storting, there are large plans for the hospital sector for the years to come, and an important part of the analysis of these plans will be to identify what is most important in order to achieve health policy objectives. And ensuring the necessary isolate capacity is an important health policy objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1028	This question, from Åsa Elvik to the Minister of Health, will be raised by the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1031	«The board of the Hålogaland Hospital adopted on Tuesday 16 April d.o.b. to close the maternity wards of Stokmarknes, Narvik and Harstad hospitals in four weeks in the summer of 2002. The background to the decision is a requirement to save 45 million. kr in the health business. One estimate is that one saves 500,000 kroner by closing the food departments. The closures lead to a travel time for some births of up to three hours. Does the Council of State mean that the provision of births in the district becomes acceptable during the closure period?’ I have been made aware that the health business has suspended the decision to close the food departments, among others. due to strong protests from the population. But I choose to maintain the question, and state that I ask questions about whether the Minister for Health believes it is acceptable to plan the closure of food departments to adapt the operating budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1040	The President will draw attention to the fact that there are pre-announced questions that are the subject of answers from the Minister for Health, but he is free to answer as he pleases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1043	Thank you for that. I am familiar with the proposal for rolling summer closure at the maternity wards of the Hålogaland Hospital. I am also, as the questioner, aware that the board first adopted this proposal, but that it was later converted. The decision, as it says now, means that the maternity wards in Narvik, Stokmarknes and Harstad are keeping open throughout the summer. Individual enterprises and their governments have been given a great responsibility through the hospital reform to provide adequate services to the population and to provide their own economy. It is a fact that the framework has been very tight so far this year. Companies have therefore sought measures to operate more rationally and efficiently. At the same time, through the law, and especially in Section 2-1 of the Special Health Service Act, it is clear that there is a responsibility and a duty to ensure that specialised health services are provided to the population. The text of the law also states that this offer should be sound. I also show that the Government of St. Prp. No 59 have submitted their proposal for a new operating and investment framework for health enterprises in 2002, which enterprises will adapt after the Storting has taken its decisions relating to this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1052	I thank you for your answer. I want to show that the Storting in Innst. S. No 300 for 2000-2001 dealt with the notification of emergency medical preparedness, including: at the local hospitals. It stressed that ‘the overall objective of maternity care must be to maintain a decentralised food supply in Norway and to maintain a good and sound standard’. It must be natural to read that food supplies are to be maintained in local hospitals as well as in the feeding rooms we have in the country. I would like to challenge the Minister whether he would stress to health care businesses that it is not acceptable to close food departments in local hospitals either as a consequence of budget adjustment, or for a future treatment of a new structure, that the supply of food at local hospitals should be maintained in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1061	Let me first say in full agreement with the comments of the Social Committee during the examination of the emergency communication, that the offer should be decentralised and sound, and that must always be a balance. I cannot, on my part, issue any decree that the current structure of emergency medical preparedness and maternity care is to be preserved as it is today for all future. It would be to bind completely prematurely to the exercise of the responsibilities of the undertakings. But the government and the ministry will actively follow up on the leadership of emergency medical preparedness and maternity care given by the Stortinget through the treatment of the emergency message. We have explained in detail in the documents on the revised national budget how we will follow this up. Among other things, we have appointed a maternity care council to assist in advising regional businesses and health businesses in their development of these services. The objective shall be good services for mother and children and the families in need of these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1068	I thank you for your answer. In my last question, I would like to stress that we have a decentralised care today, and an alternative to that is to start centralizing. So the question to the minister must be whether he agrees that if you start changing the structure you have today, it will be in the direction of centralizing, and that there is a policy government doesn't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1075	I would like to make it clear that we do not generally want any centralisation either of this offer or other health services. In fact, in our proposal for a revised national budget, we are in favour of the decentralisation of specialist health services in some important areas. But from there to say that the structure should be just like it is today, for all the future, as I was invited to, is a dull piece. I don't think health services or patients are worth preserving all the elements of such a structure. In fact, there may be balances between the requirement of quality and soundness and a very decentralised offer that implies making changes in the direction the representative asks for, without weakening the offer, but perhaps rather strengthening it. That's why I have to evaluate it in the time that comes, but some general centralization I'm not a follower of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1083	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Imports of resistant bacteria from abroad to Norwegian hospitals are increasing. Tuberculosis in Eastern Europe and an increasing incidence of dangerous wound bacteria require the construction of infection units with air infectious isolates at the country’s hospital. Several hospitals have developed construction plans for isolates, but this has stopped due to this. the lack of the economy of health enterprises. What will the Council of State do to facilitate the rapid development of the country’s capacity for isolate so that the situation does not come out of control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1092	In contrast to many other countries, Norway has been very careful about the growing problem of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. To a large extent, it is attributable to the restrictive antibiotic policy pursued in Norway. Both the authorities and the trade unions have actively contributed to supporting this policy. Increasing imports of resistant bacteria from abroad leads to a situation that is both challenging and demanding, while giving rise to some concern. With today's relatively open borders and greater movement of people across borders, the risk of imports of resistant bacteria and «foreign» infectious agents increases. But resistant bacteria can also occur here in the country. In addition to preventing the spread of such bacteria to other patients, there is now a growing need to prevent the spread of infection, also of normally «non-hazardous» bacteria to patients with compromised immune systems, e.g. patients with fire damage, cell toxicity treatment or organ transplantation. In addition to good infection control programmes and good hospital procedures, satisfactory physical and spatial conditions are also required to prevent the spread of infection. So-called contact infectious diseases isolates are simpler specialised individual rooms in hospitals for this use. In case of a suspicion of particularly contagious infections, such as resistant tuberculosis, large wound infections that do not respond to antibiotics and the like, the use of so-called air infectious isolates may be relevant, i.e. rooms with special structural design and underpressure ventilation, where the technical installations are relatively expensive and complex. The current situation in some hospitals is not as desirable, and more needs to be done in this area. This applies in relation to the follow-up to existing guidelines and recommendations for infection prevention, building conditions and number of isolates. I presented the ‘Action Plan to Combat Antibiotic Resistance’ in my previous Council of State period and, through the 2001 progress report on its follow-up, I was informed that the implementation work is progressing well in both its own and other sectors. As part of the action plan, the Health Inspectorate published in 2001 a handbook providing guidance on the use of antibiotics in hospitals and the prevention of antibiotic resistance. The monitoring of isolate capacity by the Health Authority in the hospitals in 1997 showed that the number of isolation beds – contact infection and air infection – was 2.8 pst. of the total number of hospital beds on a national basis. Subsequent monitoring in 2001 found that 4.2 pst. of the effective beds were isolates. It's a clear improvement, but still not up against the recommended target of 10 pst. The State Health Authority, in cooperation with the Public Health Institute, has worked to revise the 1988 Guidelines on the use of isolation to prevent the spread of infectious diseases in hospitals. Completion will take place in cooperation with the Directorate for Social and Health. I expect revised guidelines to be available in the near future. There are development plans that will amount to a total investment volume of up to DKK 50 billion. I propose a continuous analysis of these projects based on what is most important in order to achieve health policy objectives. And I assume that measures for the development of a sufficient number of isolates, including air infectious isolates, are part of the hospitals' plans for modernisation and upgrading and will be reflected in the investment plans of regional health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1111	New regulations for the use of isolation in health institutions have been under way since 1996. The regulations will be the basis for the hospital update of the infection control programme. The regulations were expected in the summer of 2001 but are not yet available. What is the reason why this work has not been completed, and what will the Minister of Health do to ensure that the guidelines come out soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1118	I can answer for my work on this now. I have been informed that the work of the Health Authority on these guidelines will be completed in the near future in cooperation with the new Social and Health Directorate. They will then be adopted without delay. When it comes to explaining why this has taken time, I can't go into it any further, because I don't know. But at least I want to ensure that this work is now completed and the new guidelines implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1125	Regardless of possible further improvements, there will be a need to build new isolates at the country’s hospital. Development must take place quickly and will require significant investment, which was also addressed by the Council of State in response to me and in response to previous questions today. At the Vest-Agder Central Hospital, the sketch drawings have been completed for a separate isolate attached to the hospital. However, when the State took over the operation of the hospitals, this stopped work. Will the Minister for Health take a rapid initiative to grant funds to health businesses so that development can begin?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1132	That initiative has already been taken by the Council of State, for he made a proposal on Friday proposing to grant an additional 300 million. kr in investment funds and the adoption of a loan framework of DKK 1 billion for investment purposes in health enterprises. The matter is dealt with in Stortinget. Based on the treatment of the Storting, health businesses will be informed of the new framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1141	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘According to Bergen’s Official Journal, the situation in the newborn ward at the children’s clinic at Haukeland Hospital is appalling. Conditions may lead to an increased risk of infection for children and may be a major influence for parents who have had a child who needs to follow closely over a longer period of time. The new-born department has too few employees and too little equipment, cf. National Action Plan for neonatal care. Will the Council of State ensure that these newborns and their parents have sound conditions at the Haukeland Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1150	In recent years, there has been a significant search for problems in newborn care. It has been focused on too little capacity, among other things. in the maternity wards of Ullevål Hospital and the Rikshospitalet, but it has been found that the situation has also been difficult in other hospitals in the other health regions. This was the reason why the Stortinget, in connection with the treatment of the paper on emergency medical preparedness, asked the Government not later than the spring of 2002, to present a case of concrete measures to improve the situation in newborn care. The Ministry has followed up the case with two main measures. Firstly, a professional sample was set up under the State Health Inspectorate to prepare proposals for future organisation and professional requirements for neonatal wards. The Committee delivered its report ‘National Plan for Newborn Medicine’ in November 2001. It promotes a number of proposals for guidelines and standards for, inter alia: crew, competence, number of beds, space and medical-technical equipment. The Ministry has asked the Directorate for Social and Health to evaluate the proposals and calculate their economic impact. I will come back to the matter in connection with the 2003 state budget. Secondly, a project was launched for the further training of nurses for new-born and intensive wards at regional and central hospitals. The project continued in 2001 and 2002, and responsibility for follow-up is now in the Directorate for Social and Health. Health regions have organised the response as modules with combined theory and practice. Overall, 268 nurses have been involved and evaluations have shown that the measure has been largely successful. As Minister of Health, I am committed to providing the best possible health care for new-born children in Norway. In St. pp. No 59, the 2002 financial and budget of the Specialist Health Service, which was submitted on Friday 3 May, is based on the assumption that regional health establishments give priority to strengthening newborn care. I would also like to point out that neonatal medicine has been reinforced by the review of the costs of different treatments implemented in 2001. This has the effect that regional health enterprises will receive about 100 million. In comparison with previous years, ISF reimbursements were used to treat this patient group in 2002. The question about the conditions at the children's clinic at Haukeland Hospital has been raised with Health West, which says that the new birthplace at the children's clinic at Haukeland Hospital is located in an old building. In addition, it is reported that Haukeland Hospital has traditionally introduced significantly fewer sick newborns than has been the case in other departments, and that there has generally been a short sleep period. This is made possible by identifying and dealing with many problems either while the children are in their mother’s maternity wards, or out of the hospital. The area is small, however, the number of places is too few. This also applies to the crew. It's planning a new children's centre at Haukeland Hospital, Health Bergen. The first construction step in such a children's centre is according to the plans as they are today, the construction of a new post for newborns with a larger number of beds. However, this will require a larger investment and be a long-term building solution. I'm adding that to per. date of no decision to initiate this project. However, Health Vest, in cooperation with Health Bergen, will consider immediate measures to improve the conditions and enhance the operation of the new-born post, as requested by the representative Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1173	I thank you for your answer. I can assure the Minister of Health that I have been looking at the conditions of the newborn ward. What upsets me is that while the plan for neonatal medicine focuses on family-based care, this is almost impossible in this department. I saw that custodians and beds were close, it was almost impossible to walk between them. It was far below the norms that have to be in terms of space. In addition, what the Minister of Health also said is low staffing. For these parents, who are often in crisis, neither space nor persons allow them to use their resources. Does the Minister of Health recognise that the conditions are as described in the plan that in the Health West there is an extra bad relationship? Does the Minister of Health feel a responsibility to follow up on the situation here in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1180	The recognition was already in my first answer, when I said that the area of this department is small, the number of spaces is too few, and that also applies to the crew. The recognition has also led me to learn that Health Vest will cooperate with Health Bergen to assess immediate measures to improve the conditions and strengthen the operation of the new-born post. In general, the changes in the ISF system actually benefit from this type of service of 100 million. kr extra in the current year compared to last year. It will provide a basis for strengthening, not only at this department, but in the general care of the newborn. I can assure you, as it is also expressed in the hospital economy landfill proposal that we have just presented, that this is an area that has great vigilance on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1185	I thank the Minister for that. But I'm calling for special measures right there. As the Minister of Health said, there are plans for the development of a children's centre, where the first stage of construction could be started quite soon if it had been willing to do so, but there is an investment halt in this area. So with the framework you seem to have today, it becomes impossible to start action and improve the situation by building a new first step and doing something about the number of employees in this department. I again call for the Minister of Health's special focus on the need for special – not just general – measures. Will the Minister of Health see to it that there will be extra funds for the Haukeland Hospital? That's where the problems are, that's where the place is so bad, that's where there's so low crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1190	I have therefore explained that, in cooperation with Health Bergen, the regional health company will assess immediate measures targeted specifically at this department, and these are special measures, not general ones. In addition, the operating economy for this part of hospital services is actually improved by the conversion of the ISF system this year. With regard to the issue of investment projects, I must ask the representative Valle's understanding that they cannot be adopted through question time responses in Stortinget, but must be anchored in the responsibility of regional undertakings to make the right investments. However, the Minister of Health and the Government have submitted a proposal to the Stortinget to strengthen the investment framework for the current year in terms of both the allocation and a loan framework. The grant shall now take a decision on this and in the follow-up to it the undertakings will be informed of the new investment framework and may decide on that basis how they will give priority to their investment projects, including this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1201	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the treatment of the State budget of the year, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to draw up a new action plan for the recruitment of health professionals 2002–05, focusing on concrete measures to recruit nurses and other nursing and care staff and to stabilise the manning situation. What has the Government done so far in the work on this new action plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1210	The government is doing a good job. There is a political steering group chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Social Affairs also participates with its State Secretary. The Social and Health Directorate and the departments are now preparing a situation analysis to form the basis for the selection of actions in the plan. One of the main conclusions of the now completed action plan for health and social workers is that the recruitment of auxiliary and other professional staff with secondary education is too weak in relation to expected demand. Recruitment of personnel with this type of education appears to be a major challenge for the health and social sector. We have therefore chosen to concentrate our focus and focus on our actions against these groups. In addition, nurses are a central target group for the recruitment plan. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health, in cooperation with the professional organisations and employers, has been tasked with examining proposals for an action strategy for the recruitment plan. They have been asked to draw up a programme of clinical specialities for the nursing and care professions. Such a professional development opportunity is considered by both the professional organisations and the Minister for Health to be an important recruitment measure. Other measures assessed are opportunities for continuing training for help nurses, auxiliary care training for adults, new structures for the health and social professions in secondary education, recruitment of immigrants to the nursing and care professions, etc. Several of these measures need to be followed up in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. The role of the employer in recruiting and stabilising the personnel situation is essential. The State is now the owner of the specialist healthcare service. Through the management of regional health companies, I have underlined the responsibility of companies for education, research and other skills enhancement of their personnel. In the 2003 budget, I will present objectives and measures for the new recruitment plan for health and social workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1221	I thank you for your answer. The reason for the last harvest of the Social Committee's budgetary procedure on this issue was that many reports suggest that there would be a lack of adequately qualified staff both in the specialist health service and perhaps not least in the care services in the municipalities, and that there would be the greatest obstacle to providing adequate services both in terms of quality and quantity. There is little evidence to suggest that the situation has improved, as the Minister of Health also pointed out. This is urgent, and I'm glad to hear that the work is going well, also because it looks like the main emphasis is now being placed on help nurses and that kind of work group. In my opinion, the pay question will be one of the most important recruitment measures in this context, and the question will then be: Will raising the salary level of carers and carers be a measure of the Government? And how will the Government contribute to such an increase in wages and salaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1230	I am of the opinion that wages are an important tool for recruitment. But I have the respect for the rules of the labour market that I do not – and in particular not in the middle of a payroll - make statements of a payroll nature. That is why I will abstain from the invitation contained in Mr Molvik's question of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1235	The Minister of Health has every reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1238	I thank you for your answer and respect for the position taken by the Council of State in relation to it. However, there are some basic assumptions for any wage increase. This applies, for example: the economy of local authorities. As regards the care sector, the municipalities are employers, and in order to achieve any wage increases for these groups, municipalities must be able to pay for such a possible increase in pay. So over to another side. In the same decision in the budgetary procedure, the Stortinget also asked for an assessment to be made of changes to the labour environment law, so that three-part turnaround work could be treated as shiftwork. Many people experience this discrimination against low-paid women — understandably — as very unfair. Does the Council agree that an equality between three-part turnaround and full-continuous shiftwork in the labour environment law is a reasonable requirement and that this will be one of many important measures to recruit and maintain competent labour in the care and care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1245	I agree that the organisation of working days and working hours is an important part of facilitating the attractiveness and recruitment of these jobs. We would like to ask the government about the question that the representative Molvik is asking here, namely the question of a three-part turn, and come back to it in connection with our work on the recruitment plan. That's what I want to say in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1253	‘In the Health Magazine Pulse at NRK, individual cases in which an application for compensation from Norwegian Patient Compensation has been made have been raised. Common to all cases has been a very long procedure, with extensive documentation requirements, and where the system appears to be bureaucratic and low level of service to the applicant. Does the Council of State consider the scheme to be functioning properly, or does the Council of State see the need for improvement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1260	The interim system for the compensation of patients came into force in 1988. The purpose of the scheme was to provide patients with better protection under the substitution law than traditional replacement law provided. The temporary compensation scheme makes it easier for patients to obtain compensation than the general compensation rules. The rules of the temporary arrangement are based on a ‘objectived’ liability basis, while the general rule under general civil liability rules is that there must be liability. Since its establishment in 1988, Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation (NPE) has completed 17 500 of the 21 000 cases received. Of these, approx. 5 250 patients were treated, i.e. about 30 p.p. has been compensated. It's totally paid out NOK 1.5 billion. 80 pst. the cases are completed within two years. For the reason that the last 20 pst. This is not due to a lack of resources, but shows, among other things, that NPE is taking longer. to address complex issues, issues in which a patient has to wait for progress in terms of the patient’s situation in order to be able to complete the claim, issues in which the patient complains, and cases in which proceedings are brought. It is important to note that there should not be such a pressure on the processing time that this affects the quality of the proceedings. However, some of the cases take too much time. The NPE is constantly working to improve the quality of its procedural procedures and is also monitoring the process time. I believe that the temporary compensation scheme has worked well, even if there is room for improvement in the length of proceedings in some cases. I have mentioned this earlier with NPE, and I will also follow this in the future. I am aiming for the new patient injury law to come into force from 1 January 2003. The provisions of the law are largely based on the legislation under the temporary compensation scheme. In order to ensure good procedural procedures, rules on the handling of cases are now laid down by law. It follows from the rules governing the temporary compensation scheme that the provisions on appeal and conversion laid down in Chapter VI of the Administrative Act apply mutatis mutandis as far as is appropriate. The Patient Injury Act provides that the Administrative Act and the Public Health Act apply to the activities of the NPE and the Patient Injury Study Unit. Furthermore, it follows from the law that the decision on compensation, the amount of compensation, the decision on partial payment and the decision on legal aid are to be regarded as an individual decision. In order to ensure effective review, it follows from the law that the patient injury subject should have a separate secretariat. Furthermore, the law provides for an extended obligation to justify the subject of the injury to the patient in relation to that resulting from the Administrative Act. In sum, my assessment is that the system is working well, but that the processing time in some cases is too long. I have the confidence in NPE that they are constantly looking at how they can improve both their processing time and their level of service, and will follow it up even after the new system comes into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1279	I thank you for your answer. What strikes you is that there is a conglomerate of schemes that patients and the population have to deal with in complaints. The patient ombudsman system is open to appeal to the county doctor, possibly further to the State Health Authority. Civil proceedings may be brought. Some things end up with the Civil Ombudsman. And then we have the patient damages. It also strikes me – with my health background – that it is not always easy to know what is really the system here. What kind of qualified advice should be given to a patient or its dependants in relation to access to justice? And what role does the compensation of patients play in a whole in relation to the other schemes that exist? Does the Council of State see any need for a somewhat more general clean-up of such schemes, so that the population feels more guided by the many schemes that exist today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1286	I am keenly concerned that patients should be able to find out more easily in the healthcare system in general, and that they should have the opportunity to complain and address their cases, whether in relation to complaints to the supervisory authorities regarding the exercise of their profession by health professionals or in relation to claims against the patient injury claim, rather than complaints of a more general nature in relation to the patients’ representatives. I believe that the patient representatives have an important role to play in guiding and informing patients about this, but also the hospitals and healthcare themselves have a solar-clear information responsibility that may not always be carried out in the best possible way. We got the new Patient Rights Act, which meant clearing up and clarifying and merging patients' rights, and in this context I would like to stress that the information about this has to be even better for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1293	I record that when there is a complaint to the county doctor, there will obviously be two parties here: there will be health professionals, who may initially feel exposed in the sense that you may have made a mistake, and there will be patients who have an experience that the health professionals have made a mistake – and then you get a balance sheet where the county doctor must find an assessment that both parties can accept as reasonable. Patient damages are given a different role here, as there is no need to necessarily be mistakes on the part of health professionals. However, the result must have been a burden on the affected person, and then there will be a compensation scheme in the wake of it. In the case of a specific case, such as: was up in the health magazine ‘Puls’ – I do not expect the Council of State to go into individual cases – so it was treated in civil law, with a sentence replacing it. But then Norsk Patient Compensation anchors the verdict. And I don't see it as completely unproblematic that the patient injury compensation, if you don't have to prove it, has received support in a civil-law apparatus, in a way, becomes a counterparty. Does the Council of State see that this role can be difficult in view of people's understanding of this body?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1302	I have no problem seeing that it may be difficult to understand the role of the NPE in such a situation. I do not know the matter, and do not dare go into it without having put me closer into it. But in general, I would like to say that it is important that we have different complaint procedures, that we have supervisory bodies that follow up health care and monitor the exercise of their duties by health professionals, so that it is not mixed with the compensation schemes, where, on a so-called objective basis, we should be able to obtain compensation without having to prove the existence of blame or liability. I believe that the patient representatives will continue to play an important role in linking this together, and be a low-threshold offer to patients in terms of their need for guidance in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1314	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research, which reads: «In budget entry. S. No 12 for 2001-2002 the Committee said that further training of teachers should take place within the budget framework at a course announced for 2002. It turns out that the Government has found that it is able to transfer funds from this chapter to a research project under the Norwegian Research Council. This disposal has resulted in no funds being allocated to new offers for teachers. Why does the Government consider this research project to be more important than the Storting's clear desire to continue the training of teachers?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1323	Continuing training of teachers is a high priority area. The 2001 State budget shows that it was allocated approx. 200 million. for the development of competence in primary schools and approx. Forty million. kr for secondary schools. Much of these funds are used for further training. In 2002, the department disposes of 250 million. kr of Chapter 226 for such development of competence, i.e. more than last year. In the field of continuing training and other development of skills, it is important to find the most appropriate form of organisation. In recent years, the Ministry has stressed that it is the school owner who knows the local needs and who will have the primary responsibility. Government funds for skills development have therefore increasingly been allocated to local school authorities. The Education Communication proposes to strengthen continuing training in these fields: Firstly, specific State resources allocated to school owners for the development of skills shall focus on priority areas. The funds shall be used for leave, scholarships, travel expenses, the payment of tuition fees and fees for visits and accommodation at other schools and for the purchase of guidance, preferably from universities and colleges. Secondly, the Central Institute for Flexible Higher Education shall coordinate the development of online and modularly organised further training provision in English, mathematics, German, French and Norwegian, with emphasis on reading and writing training. Thirdly, means of strengthening teachers' skills in real-life education are to be provided. Fourthly, the development of a nationwide training scheme for ICT education and training – 40,000 teachers will be offered during the next two school years. In addition, it has been suggested that a guidance offer be developed for newly educated teachers and new further training provision for school leaders, and that more institutions develop master degrees in school management. At the Learning Centre, the Ministry has a new quality development body in the school. The Training Centre may be entrusted with the management of the International Training Training Course for Teachers. Resources for developing the skills of professionals in professional training will now go more directly to the university and higher education sectors, which have long been important players in this field. The country’s teacher training course has continued to train teachers and staff in professional training and has been a significant player in enhancing the competence of teachers. In view of the conversion of the aid outlined, the budget resources for continuing training through the State teacher training course have been reduced in recent years. The Ministry considers it appropriate that the State Teachers' Course be completed and that parts of the tasks are now continued by SOFF, the Learning Centre and universities and higher education institutions. So it's not like the representative Evje claims in the question that there are no funds for new offers to teachers. The increase in research funding for the KUPP programme in the Norwegian Research Council is an increase of 5 million. This year, especially with a view to the field of practice in kindergarten and school. A further effort in this field after 2002 will be considered. The Ministry of Education wants the vocational staff in education to strengthen their links with the teaching professions through practical R & D work. This priority will have a positive impact not only on research itself but on the whole relationship between theory and practice in teacher training. This, in turn, will help to increase the quality in general, including in the provision of continuing education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1351	It was a unanimous church, education and research committee at the Stortinget which, in the context of the 2002 budget, indicated that the allocation of funds to the course announced in 2002 would take place within the budget framework. In St.meld. No 16 for 2001-2002 it appears that the State Council and its Department have already before the Stortinge case found it possible to start the transfer of parts of the said course allocation for other purposes. They're telling us that 5 million. kr has been transferred to a research project under the Norwegian Research Council – a purpose that should have been otherwise financed. It is also stated that one has not provided funds for new further training courses for teachers. That's not 100 pst. with the Council of State informed about now in its reply, and I must ask her to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1356	I have clarified in my first answer that the investment in continuing education is extensive. Over the years, there has been some reorganisation of continuing training activities, such as: is also presented in the Single European Act now under discussion in the Grand Duchy, namely the notification of new teacher training to be decided by the Grand Duchy. In 2002, many teachers’ refresher training courses were started with funding from the State Teachers’ Course, but we have been restrictive in launching new further training courses in the direction of the State Teachers’ Course, which will last for several years. The organisation of continuing training offers is referred to in the teacher’s notification. As far as the KUPP programme is concerned, I do not see it as more important than continuing training. I just think of it as two sides of the same thing, in the sense that we're going to help increase the skills of the teachers, but then we also have to have a good knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1365	Now, the Norwegian Network Council in its 2000 Annual Report, which deals precisely with continuing training for teachers, showed that from 1990 to 2000, there had been a real decline in the appropriations of about 10 %. Thirty million. kr. It's a significant amount of money, it's also, over ten years. We know that the quality of teachers seems to be falling, and we also have some knowledge that those who are applying for continuing education most in this country are not teachers on a voluntary basis. My question must then be: What is the authority of the Council of State to make redundancies in relation to what a unanimous collapse of the Church, Education and Research Committee has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1372	I am not in a position to comment on the annual report from the Norwegian Network Council for 2000. I also have to ask if I can get back to the question of permission. But what I want to say is that continuing education, which I share with the representative Evje's point of view, is very important, because it takes a long time to train new teachers. This was also discussed and discussed in the debate on the current year's budget. What I have to say is that more money is spent than ever on continuing education. But I also believe that we have improved the organisation and targeting of continuing education and training, and we have developed systems that are more effective in ensuring that this really reaches the teachers who need and want continuing training. So I think we're getting a better system for this, but if I'm going to elaborate on the details of it, I have to ask to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1379	I thank the Council of State for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1387	I have the following questions: ‘The 2002 State budget announced that ‘a smaller reduction in the rates of enterprises taking in apprentices’ would be applied. Circular F-12-02 of the Ministry, dated 26 February 2002, set out new rates of support for apprenticeships, while reorganising the support system. It turns out that average support for apprenticeships was reduced by 15 pst. for apprentices taken up from 2002 onwards. The Council of State believes that a cut of 15 p.m. is there a minor reduction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1396	In the government’s draft budget for 2002, the grant to apprenticeships was proposed to be included in the framework grant to county municipalities, while reducing the budget by 75 million. kr. In the budget term, it was said, among other things. the following on grants to educational establishments: ‘In the interests of the overall budget, a smaller reduction in the rates of grants to enterprises taking in apprentices has been proposed. The rates of apprentices and apprentices in small subject areas will be increased.’ This draft budget for grants to educational establishments was not amended by the Bondevik Government and the simplification of the system and the reduction in the budget was unanimously adopted by the Stortingen in the budgetary procedure. In the light of the Storting decision, the Ministry of Education and Research has set up new rates for grants. The circular setting out the new grant rates was issued in February. In order to avoid a cost-surveillance of county municipalities, the overall budgetary reduction in 2002 must be applied to new contracts signed in 2002 — that is, half of the current contracts — while already established contracts maintain grants at the rates applicable at the time the contracts were concluded. The full savings on the new contracts must also be made in one year, although apprenticeships normally run over two years and receive grants both years. This means that the reduction in new contracts is higher than the budgetary reduction could give the impression. I agree with Mr Sortevik on this. The government has therefore proposed in the revised national budget to increase the framework grant to county municipalities by 37.6 million. kr. The grant rates for apprenticeships will be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1411	I thank you for your answer. I am familiar with what has been included in the revised budget. However, it is when stakeholders are asked what the changes mean that the many and strong reactions come — the reactions to what is referred to as ‘less’ cut being more than 15 pst., because, as the Council of State has also explained, the full burden is placed on those who join as new apprentices. I assume that the department itself has calculated this many times before implementing such a conversion – it is a fairly comprehensive circular – and that the department must have known the effect, that “less” meant more than 15 pst. Cut, cut, However, instead of making an additional proposition, such as the Government, the Ministry has released this. has chosen to do in the matter of obtaining $12 million. kr extra for primary school examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1420	I guess I'm just going to say that I understand some of the reactions that have come. I understand when the effects of what is referred to as a ‘minor reduction’ were such that it was not perceived as a minor decrease. A smaller reduction I had the impression that e.g. the parties were willing to accept, but they did not see it that way. So I understand the reactions. We are very concerned about prioritising the professions not only in this way, but also in other ways. The first natural opportunity to adjust this approach was the revised national budget. I am aware that we have promoted a proposition in the field of primary school exams, a little out of line, although the actual appropriations are made in the context of the revised national budget. It was related to an uncertainty in the sector in relation to the planning of exams that I considered to be rather unsustainable, because you have to set dates for exams very long in advance. Normally, we try to do it that way, that way, we have a budgetary procedure once a year and a revision once a year. I hope that with this I contribute to making the sector more satisfied. Now that is not the point in and separately, but to give priority to the professions as they should be given priority, provided that the Storting joins in this. That's a premise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1429	If the purpose of the scheme is to stimulate good vocational training in cooperation with industry – I hope it still is, also for the Government – would it not be better to retain an earmarked appropriation and treat this item in addition to that as an estimate? The Council of State can hopefully see that a good scheme that stimulates enterprises to participate and students to apply — and in parentheses it is that it is now they are applying for the school year 2002–2003, so that there is also a planning horizon in this picture — will strengthen vocational training and actually allow demand to determine more of the total consumption. In other contexts, we use the estimate — we do so, for example. in the case of the Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1434	I see the question from the representative of Sortevik as a question of designation versus inclusion, etc. Here, there is a history of exactly this matter and the work on it, also in front of this government. But it's clear that there are always dilemmas about issues of ringing. We know that this way you can protect certain areas that you want to prioritize, and make sure that they are prioritised. But the consequence is often that it goes beyond other areas. I'm also a school minister, and the school is very dependent on free income in the municipalities. In this way, I am also concerned that we reduce the denomination and increase the space for action of municipalities and county councils for the sake of the overall education policy. But I am aware of the dilemmas that Blackevik's representative is going through in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1444	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask a question to the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The reform of competence has taken the view that there may be 265000 adults who have not completed further training and who want such training. With an implementation time of e.g. 10 years, it should then be offered for approx. 25 000 a year. Does the Council have an overview of how many have been offered, including how many of those with the least education in the past?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1453	Estimates of the number of people lacking complete secondary education are very uncertain. The figures referred to in the question are the estimates obtained from the Buer Committee’s report NOU 1997:25 ‘New competence’. Since then, adults born before 1978 have been legally entitled to secondary education from 1 August 2000, and counties are obliged to provide adapted training. We've seen that the number of adults taking secondary education has fallen in recent years. This may have many reasons, including: the labour market situation. The Real Competence Project has provided an opportunity for adults to assess their skills and to receive an adapted training offer. Reports show that approx. 15 000 adults have so far taken advantage of this possibility. I would also like to point out that in the 2001–2002 academic year, there are 2 000 adult «real competence students» in universities and colleges. This means that these have not had to go the path of general study competence in higher education. The Ministry closely follows developments in the number of adults in secondary education, and there is a sample working on this. The committee has representatives from the social partners and training providers — county municipalities, study associations and distance learning institutions. The Ministry will await assessments and recommendations from this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1462	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is enough that, in addition to those who go to universities and colleges, and those who are at work, there are quite a number of people who could both need this education and be interested in it, but they simply don't know it, or, if they know it, they don't get it. Many suggest that the assessment of real skills is an obstacle to many people. They're horrified to prove themselves to the test. Sorry, I did not get any answers to the number of people who are doing further training. For one thing, getting a real competence assessment, but the most important thing is what comes next. If it turns out that they must be filled, will they be filled? I can refer to Rogaland: if one were to reach 265,000 adults, it should be about. 20 000 in Rogaland. With the level that is now, 275 a year, it will take over 70 years before one when the goal you had was to deal with the reform of competences. I would like to have the Council's comments on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1475	I can agree with the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt that, in order to keep abreast of the reform of competence, where, moreover, Norway is well advanced both in terms of the legal and economic systems in order to realise the visions behind the project of competence and the broad cooperation we have, among other things. with the social partners – perhaps the most important thing we can do, to do good information and information activities and to develop a good market for continuing training. I can tell the representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, that I have taken the initiative to set up a forum for competence and working life with the actors in this market, precisely to run information and information activities and to help revitalise this reform. In addition, a great deal of money is allocated annually to various types of continuing training provision, just to make this market develop to provide enough services. We are also working on better systems of valuation and evidence of real competence, so that this can be done as easily as possible for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1480	I would like to ask again whether the Council of State has an overview of how many, because I have not yet received an answer to my question about how many have taken further training after the courses provided in the reform of competence. I believe there are 15 000 people who have been assessed for real competence. How does the Council of State know what the level is in relation to what one had expected, and as I said, how many of them fill up with the skills they need in order to obtain a letter or study qualification? I was in the middle of the problem that there is a part that refuses to assess real competence. There's a part that doesn't have enough self-confidence to make up for a test, which it might prove in practice that they're capable of. I have received information that indicates that some of them are going to take a different offer and pay for it, because they do not want to pass that test. Can the Council of State plan to do any experiment where someone can enter this system without the real competence assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1487	In the process, I do not have any figures on how many of the 15 000 people who have been assessed for their skills, who have been involved in secondary education. But I think those numbers are there, but I'm not going to be able to say it in a hurry. What do I think about these numbers? If you compare Norway with other countries, I think this is really great numbers. Today, we have so many people who go to higher education – and not least at universities and colleges – based on real competence, I think it's very exciting, and it's quite unique indeed in international terms, especially what we do in relation to universities and colleges. And then you have to remember that many people who are in the world of work actually want to take an education that is linked to the working life and the concrete work tasks. Much is happening in the workplace and in businesses and in organisations, and we also have good adult training services within, for example: math, reading and writing, etc. which you can use while working. I have no plans to go so far with measures, when we are so advanced when we assess real competence, that we should not even assess it! I have no current plans about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1499	I will be asked the following questions to the Council of State: ‘To ensure the ability of current and future top-level athletes to combine top-level sport development/ careers with education and studies at universities and universities has been a cross-political objective. There is reason to believe that we have not achieved the objective set out in St.meld. No 41 for 1991-92 on the possibility of combining the sport career with training aimed at the future profession. How, in cooperation with sport, can the Council of States contribute to the achievement of this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1508	Young top athletes need flexible and organized education to adapt to a life situation with a high level of training and competition. Individual educational institutions are responsible for providing organised courses of study for students with special needs. It's my impression that most colleges show a great deal of flexibility in meeting young top athletes. A part of the quality reform will be the introduction of individual training plans. The institution and the student shall jointly undertake the training course. The institution thus becomes aware at an early stage whether the student has special needs for adaptation, such as: in the form of part-time arrangements, and may facilitate this. At the same time, the quality reform involves a closer follow-up of the individual student and opens up alternative forms of evaluation. This will benefit all students, but especially those with special needs for organisation. I would also like to point out that ICT-supported education is increasingly being used by our institutions, which also increases the overall availability and flexibility of education. With regard to the funding of studies, there are no special provisions for sportsmen as regards delay, exemption from interest, etc. In this case, groups other than sportsmen would have to be assessed, for example: students working in different humanitarian organisations or as volunteers in activities for children and young people. The Ministry has therefore chosen to maintain the current system of economic or social conditions that provide the basis for facilitating the study funding scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1517	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that there are a number of apprenticeships that are flexible and that provide an adapted setup for our top-notch athletes. One example is the University of Lillehammer, which has done an excellent job in this way. But the feedback I've received from different environments, including the Olympic Summit, is that this is very random and not well enough taken care of, and that it depends entirely on the management of the individual educational institution. My hope is that the Council of State could use part of its inaugural approach to take an initiative towards the educational organisations, preferably in cooperation with the Olympic Summit, to put this on the agenda, and that we got a comprehensive national policy on it, because I feel that this is an area that we haven't done enough. The quality reform clearly has the possibility of individualisation, but I think that the feedback I have received in these months suggests that we should lift this field in a slightly different way than we have done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1522	That representative, Bekkelem Orheim, says that some apprenticeships are nice and flexible and have good management and take this into account, while others are not as flexible, I think it may be right, and also that it might seem a little random. However, in terms of quality reform, it is not a per capita reform. today has been realized. Some colleges have come a long way in realizing it, but what goes on some of these elements, with individual education plans, etc., greater flexibility, is now in the Stortinget as a legislative proposal in the form of proposals for a new university and higher education law. After the Grand total has adopted it, it will become effective and will imply an obligation on the part of institutions to base such individual training plans. That law will apply once it has been adopted and the quality reform will then be finally implemented from the autumn of 2003. So I think that it can actually be less of a part of the coincidences that the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, refers to, in the sense that the institutions get closer commitments, but also more flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1527	There is no doubt that more individualised opportunities at individual institutions could lead to the provision of help to top-level athletes through a training course. But at the same time it'll be quite random. And when we know that some of our top sportsmen spend as much as 50 hours on hard physical training over a week, it goes without saying that the need for a flexible course of study is crucial to succeed in both education and being a top sportsman. I would have liked the Council of State to also assess whether it was possible to look at the study funding and more flexibility in that area. I know, as the Council of State says in its answer, that it will also have to include other groups, but I don't think that's an explanation good enough for us not to go into this problem. Because there is nothing that manages to get more commitment and enthusiasm into the thousands of Norwegian homes than what sports and sports do. I wish we as politicians had had a more clear policy in this field than we have had. That criticism goes to previous governments, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1534	I think I will insist that the aim of quality reform is for institutions to have greater freedom to organise and work in a better way in order to achieve better research and study quality. But they are also more responsible for achieving these objectives. And it would certainly be somewhat contrary to the very basic idea behind the quality reform if you were to come in with new national detailed management in a single area. I trust that the institutions are now much more likely to have a good dialogue with the individual student and to meet the individual student's needs. It can also be said that at universities and colleges, we are trying to get the ideal of adapted training through these individual plans. With regard to the funding of studies, I have to say that I have no current plans to do anything specific about athletes. I think that social and economic criteria are the right criteria where exceptions are to be made, and that we cannot distinguish athletes from a number of other groups that could also deserve to be evaluated. Then I think we're dealing with very difficult issues related to non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1545	‘Today’s legislation does not provide for State subsidies to private primary schools operated commercially. In the newspaper on 23 April of this year’ – here there is an error in the question, it should have been said ‘Nation 23 April’ – Norway has been informed that since 1993 it has been obliged through the WTO to grant financial support to commercial, foreign schools established in Norway. Is this information accurate and how will the Government ensure that the primary education sector is not advertised as an ordinary commodity?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1552	It is clear from the Training Act that private primary schools are to be approved by the Ministry. Primary private schools may be approved under the Training Act or the Private School Act. Primary schools approved under the Training Act may be operated commercially, but the approval does not give rise to any State subsidy. As the representative of the Skjellaa points out, schools which are eligible for State grants under the Private School Act cannot be operated commercially. I refer here to Section 27 of the Private School Act, where, among other things, It is clear that state subsidies and any school fees should benefit students. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this restriction is proposed further in the proposal for a new law on independent schools, which is now being consulted. Through the WTO, Norway has committed itself not to hinder the establishment of schools in Norway by residents of other Member States. This includes, inter alia: that the Norwegian authorities cannot impose requirements on the inhabitants of the Member States other than those we impose on Norwegian citizens, and that Norwegian citizens and residents of the Member States must comply with the requirements of Norwegian legislation, for example. in the private school law. In the case of approval and State grants under the Private School Act, this implies that all applicants must be treated equally in the search process. I cannot therefore see that the Norwegian authorities have committed themselves through the WTO to providing financial support for operating costs to commercial schools, Norwegian or foreign.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1563	In the so-called binding list, a separate attachment number. 2 to St. Prp. No 65 for 1993-1994, under point 5, education services, and further under point 3, which refers to market access restrictions – point 3 is therefore about commercial presence – it says: ‘Education at primary and secondary level is public services. Foundations and other legal entities may be authorised to provide supplementary parallel or specific training on a commercial basis. Financial support for educational institutions or for students may only be granted for schooling/studies at approved institutions.’;» When I read this, I read it to you that as long as a school is approved, commercial schools based on this binding list will also receive financial support from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1573	I don't have the tie list in front of me right now, but we're interpreting this so we don't have the opportunity to discriminate. So we have to treat it the same way. But we have our legislation on the approval of private schools, where there is access to commercial and access to grants, etc. It differs from the law in other countries. But as far as I can interpret – and I have seen many countries – there are a little different systems in a lot of countries. We haven't had any problems with our system. So I can't see that this has been a current problem until now, so we're interpreting what we've committed ourselves to in this context, as if we're not allowed to discriminate between people in our country and other countries. In our legislation, it is relatively easy to obtain approval to establish a private primary school, which can then be commercial, but it does not trigger a right to a grant. If you're going to be approved under the grant law, which we would like to have called the private school law, there's a provision there that you can't be commercial. In the consultation draft law on independent schools, the relationship to international agreements and conventions etc. We have discussed it quite carefully, and we see no problems with our legislation in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1582	If a claim arises from a commercial school based on this financial support agreement, how will the Government interpret such an enquiry? It might be that this is about jus. I'm not a lawyer, and I guess it's limited how you understand it. But the binding list says that as long as the school is approved, it can be given financial support, i.e. equalized. It is whether the school is approved or not, which is crucial, according to what I read in this binding list. Then I also think about the new law of high school that the government presents. There is no specific purpose to be approved, but it is whether the quality of the school is the criterion for approval. Then my question is, if there's a school run on a commercial basis, and that has the quality in it, how will the government meet this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1589	I am not quite sure whether such demands have ever been made. But I can well say that if there are applications for public support for commercial schools that intend to remain commercial, they will be rejected according to the law of the day, and according to the law I propose we will have in the future, it will be rejected. It is true that if a private primary school is approved in Norway, it can be supported, as the representative says. But we're setting certain conditions in order to be able to receive that support. It was just to be lacking if the State were not to be able to lay down the conditions for receiving aid. You could say that the private school law and the new law on independent schools will actually be a law that lists the conditions for receiving support. In that case, the conditions laid down cannot be different, whether for residents in their own country or for other residents. One of the conditions I'm going to propose to continue is that you can't take dividends and use the state grant to make dividends, but that this must be the case to the students and the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1597	I have a question for the Council of State: ‘The government has stated that there are enough resources available to the school in Norway. In Nord-Trøndelag, several municipalities use the school as a balancing item to balance their budgets. In both the municipality of Verdal and Levanger, unsustainable situations have arisen for students and parents. Parents feel overwhelmed, and others do not know where their children are going to start school in the autumn of 2002. In Verdal the parents strike, and in Levanger the parents have lived with uncertainty around the school for decades. What will the Council of State do to bring peace around the school here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1606	What the government, and to a very large extent I, has said, is that the overall resource situation in Norwegian school is better than in most other countries. International comparisons show this. This does not mean that the resource situation of all schools is satisfactory, nor does it mean that all schools themselves think it is. I think there are at least four aspects relevant to the resource situation of each school: First, total resource use in primary and secondary schools in Norway. Since schools are owned and operated by municipalities and county municipalities, with the exception of a few private ones, resource use will be largely reflected in the municipal economy. The total revenues of municipalities will therefore be decisive, but also to the extent that they are earmarked for special purposes. Primary schools are largely financed by free income and therefore the level of free income of the municipal sector will be important. In this respect, I refer to the revised national budget and to the forthcoming municipal proposal. As you know, the government is increasing transfers to municipalities in 2002 and we are continuing the loan scheme for school buildings as foreseen. The second thing that matters to the use of resources in schools is the funding systems. We know that there are differences between municipalities, between schools within municipalities, between private and public schools, etc. I don't think the systems are always fair and/or effective. Many municipalities themselves review their own resource allocation systems and make changes, such as: In the direction of a money, follow the student system. This is something you can do, among other things. assesses in Oslo municipality for the time being. As part of its modernisation work, the Government has also launched a review of school funding systems. The third thing that matters is how to use resources, both in the municipality and in the individual school. There are good and less good ways to spend the money. Some get more out of resources than others. Many can take advantage of the space they have, even better. But in addition, the action space for each school should be expanded, and we should gain more knowledge of the quality of Norwegian school in order to be able to deploy resources where they are needed most. In these areas, too, a work has been started by the Government, under the heading Modernisation. Finally, I mention that the use of resources in school depends, of course, on the priorities of each municipality and county municipality. The parties and the municipalities have different priorities, and we have to respect that. The voters influence through choices, but parents and students, and it's very positive, as I understand from the examples mentioned in the question, also have opportunities to exercise a everyday influence between the choices through their involvement at and for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1621	It is true, as the Council of State says, that there are large differences between municipalities, but there are no differences in law and rights. When the parents of the two municipalities I refer to here have fought for decades against the municipality in order for the students to meet their legal requirements and the right to go to the nearest school, among other things, and when Verdal, where the education director and educational association have been informed about and familiar with the situation in primary and secondary schools for ten years, does not intervene in a situation that is totally unsustainable, there must be someone else who takes responsibility for such a situation in the municipalities, especially when it is as acute as it is in Levanger and Verdal at the moment. So I hope that the Council of State can also contribute something more rather than pointing to the differences in resources in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1628	I believe that I did something more than point to it. I tried to problem it a little bit, because the representative Sandberg is quite right that the school area is not in any way trouble free. I don't know these schools very much, but I don't expect the representative Sandberg to expect them either. But it is quite clear that our law, regulation and management system in the field of school contains many ideals and rights that we cannot say that we fully fulfill in all schools. Then we have to ask ourselves what we can do about it in order to do this in a better way. I tried this in my answer to problematize a little, because I don't think it's a simple answer to that. It's more complex than that. I think we both have to do something about law, regulation and regulation towards school and simplify it and let it be more up to the local school how to shape everyday life. Secondly, we need better quality assessment systems, better oversight systems, and also funding systems and schemes that act as incentives to work properly and not incorrectly – to put it a little on the verge. So this work is going on, but it's not done in a hand turn to finalize that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1633	Thank you. I see no problems with the long-term objectives and the changes that the Council of State wants. I might see that at a later stage, the Council of State and I agree on that. But there must be opportunities for the Council of State to intervene in municipalities where the situation in schools is precarious and where there is a crisis in some way. The other side of the situation in the municipalities I am now pointing to is that they are subject to a great deal of pressure in relation to the flow of drugs in this area. Children and young people have major problems. The parents do not know their poor advice in relation to that problem in growing up. The police are asking for additional resources in relation to youth problems and the growing-up problems in the two municipalities. Then I wish the council had intervened and at least put the schools in place in a proper way in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1640	There are 4,000 schools in the country, and I think it would be relatively unsustainable for the Council of State to intervene with individual schools and then to suspend local democracy and the ordinary supervisory bodies you have. There is a reason why we have decided that local democracy should have great power and influence over the school, and many here in the hall do believe that they should have even greater influence, and that the state should decide less. Then we need strong supervisory bodies – they can be even stronger. So we have to have proper systems to measure quality, so we know what we're going to oversee and what we're going to do. Then our task must be on the somewhat more general level of helping to secure the financial framework. I refer to, among others: The municipal economy that I explained. But not least I believe in system changes, system changes that can make this work better. But to intervene in the individual case, I think maybe I'm not a dangerous path, given that there are 4,000 schools owned by 500 school owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1649	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The pilot study on the port structure in the Oslofjord area recommends as one of the solutions for the establishment of a new container port at Kambo. Moss municipality does not want such an establishment, which will destroy valuable beach areas in violation of national policy guidelines for Oslofjorden. Only at the port of Borg there are sufficient areas to handle the entire container volume from the port of Oslo. There is also free port capacity in Moss and Halden. Will the Council also consider a solution that exploits this capacity over a whole new Cambodian port?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1658	In the context of the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2002-2011 by the Storting, the Ministry of Fisheries has been asked to contribute to the development of port cooperation in the Oslofjorden, including the establishment of an interregional port company. The port situation in Oslo is a major challenge both nationally and regionally. It is therefore appropriate to establish a forward-looking port offer for the Oslofjord region which helps to strengthen the competitiveness of industry, meet transport needs and meet overall policy objectives on safety and the environment. Different interests need to be weighed against each other in this process. The Ministry of Fisheries, in cooperation with the ports of Oslo and Grenland, has prepared a pilot study on the port structure in Oslo. The pilot study highlights alternative solutions for establishing a robust port solution for the region and the premises that should be used for that work. The preliminary study is based on the opinions of Stortinget and the Government that Oslo Municipality’s ‘Firdby Decision’ should be used as the basis for the long-term development of the port of Oslofjord region. The Fjordby Decision requires most container traffic to be moved out of Oslo. The establishment of a future port structure in Oslofjord must therefore be seen in the light of the political objectives of transferring freight from road to sea. On this basis, the pilot study emphasises the need to find alternative maritime transport solutions for the piece of goods to be moved out of Oslo port. If maritime transport is to be developed as a quality and economical alternative to road transport, the main ports of the Oslofjorden must have a freight volume and an infrastructure which provides the basis for frequent calls for modern container ships. It requires the concentration of container-based parcels to a limited number of ports developed to become effective nodes. In order to meet transport challenges, all modes of transport need to be viewed in a coherent way. It is therefore essential that a decision on the port structure in Oslofjorden be linked as soon as possible to the rolling of the national transport plan. The pilot study on the port structure in Oslofjord provides the basis for further discussions on port development in the region. The report has now been submitted to me, and I will deal with this. In concrete terms, I want to take a closer look at the recordings that come from meetings and planned inspections in the area. After that, I would like to suggest that, within the summer, there is a basic decision on the port structure in Oslo. The principle decision will form the basis for further detailed investigations into alternative port solutions for Oslofjord. In this context, the exploitation of existing port facilities will be one of several options to be explored.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1675	When the Minister for Fisheries wants to look at these areas in Cambodia, he will discover that, among other things. will destroy a new residential area with an investment of 150 million. in infrastructure already. In this way, I am pleased with the answer, when he says that exploiting existing port facilities will also be part of the things he will assess. I agree with the premises that he otherwise provides the basis for the choice of solution, including that with concentration. Let me just mention that at Borg Harbour there are areas that are sufficient to take the entire container traffic from Oslo port and more. There are no land conflicts there. There is a need for a new port route, and there is also the possibility to make rail tracks. I am very pleased with the answer, and will believe that the things that are the starting point for the question will lead to that at least you do not choose a new port in Cambodia. Finally, let me say that I expect the House rapporteur to have a meeting in that process, as the House rapporteur in Østfold has asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1684	I can assure you that, first of all, the Council of State has not drawn any kind of conclusions in advance. I'm quite open to going into this process, which is difficult from the different points of view in terms of future port solutions. I have already met with rapporteurs, rapporteurs and local politicians, and I have presented the preliminary study and invited them to work closely together. I will today, on the initiative of Mr Odd Holten, meet politicians in Eastfold who are affected by these issues. We are going to carry out inspections in Eastfold at the beginning of June on the initiative of county rapporteurs and other politicians in the area, and I am going in the middle of May to inspect the other side of Oslofjord, in the line from Drammen down to Larvik. I'm going into this open-eyed and open-eyed process, and I'm going to, to the best of my ability, contribute to finding solutions that meet the primary need, namely getting port solutions that don't increase the environmental burden on any of the Oslofjorden sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1693	I just want to thank you for the answer to the supplementary question. It confirms my belief and hope that the conclusion here will be positive also for those who would like to avoid being hit by a new, large container port, when port capacity is sufficient in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1698	I just want to make it clear that when I say that I have not drawn any conclusions, it also means that I do not want to comment on ports that are current or not. I think it is important that I do not draw conclusions, so I hope that my answer is not interpreted either in one direction or another, just as an invitation to go into this with open eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1706	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The fishing offices of two of the largest fishing and aquaculture municipalities of Austevoll and Bømlo are now closed and centralised to Bergen. Hordaland will then be the only state standing with one fishing office. Will the Council of State reverse this decision and at the same time assess how these offices can be strengthened in order to meet the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1715	The background to the ongoing reorganisation of the external fishing nets is inter alia: changes in the tasks of the department which have taken place since the establishment of the current office structure 30 years ago. A more complex and comprehensive regulatory framework than before also requires greater multidisciplinary competence centres. Reduced demand for the traditional services of guidance services, other changes in the task structure of the Directorate, major changes in infrastructure and developments in ICT also indicate changes in the office structure. A reorganisation is necessary to make the external fisheries network the most suitable solution to today’s challenges and challenges of the future, and to make better use of the overall resources of the EEA. The fishing director’s model, which involves fewer but more and more larger fishing offices, is an important step in this direction. With short distances and good communication with Bergen, Hordaland is an example of a case where the administration can solve its tasks from a central office, in this case the regional office in Hordaland. It is also important that there be equivalent and good offers to all coastal municipalities in Hordaland. I am concerned about finding solutions that represent a better use of resources and overall a strengthened range of services to users, including: by expanding the competence of the Agency and by improving the availability of enhanced staffing offices. First of all, in close cooperation with the Fisheries Director, I would like to determine whether there is a basis for finding specific arrangements which differ from the decisions taken by the Fisheries Director and which he has been authorised to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1732	I should like to thank you for your answer and remind you that Austevoll is the municipality that has the largest ring-note environment in the country, and is one of the largest in the farming environment. Bømlo has a key role to play in the development of economies of scale in Hordaland, and in addition they also have an emerging ring-note environment and a large breeding industry. These two offices covered 14 municipalities and an area with a high potential for future growth in the farming industry. As I could understand the premises of the reorganisation, there was a better use, as the Council of State said, of the human resources that were at the root of it, but politically also placed a great emphasis on geographical proximity to the fishing environment and accessibility for users. In this case, the value creation takes place in the Austevol area and in Bømlo, not in Bergen. A centralisation that has now been established in Sunnhordland will increase the distance to the professional environment and reduce user accessibility. Is it not consistent with what the Council of State said to do with this reorganisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1741	There are two things that it's important to hold on to in this context. It is the objectives that have been drawn up, namely better use of resources and better service for all coastal and professional communities. I had, on the initiative of the President-in-Office, a meeting with the rapporteur in Bømlo and representatives from the municipality of Austevoll, who have sent me information that I am going to review. And then it's my ambition that by the end of May we should have gone through these things, so that we can define this entire office structure. However, I remember that after the State Consultant had gone through the outer floor and the structure and recommended larger offices, the Fisheries Director was given authority from the Department on 18 September last year to determine this. And so there are some criteria that, in my opinion, indicate that the fisheries director has in general met the objectives of collapse and government as regards the organisation of the external plant and the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1748	Yes, the goal is a few things about, when it comes to service and availability, I agree with the Council of State. So there's a short, bureaucratic answer that's read out to me, and then I hear now that the Council of State is about to become a politician. I'm a little slick, because then he might have a chance to look at what the situation is like in Hordaland, and then he could have a conversation with this minister who's from Bergen, who's busy not centralizing, but decentralizing some jobs. Overall, when we look at the structure of Hordaland and the fishing environment in Sunnhordland, it has to be considered whether there can be better availability and exploitation of personnel. You can use them in the Bergen office if they're in Sunnhordland, there's no problem today. So the total use of the personnel, in addition to the fact that the professional environment is in Sunnhordland, means that these two offices should continue to exist – and Bergen will of course have the head office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1753	Since the questioner also has experience as a State Council, we may agree that, in this case, once the Fisheries Director has obtained a mandate from the Ministry, there must be strong reasons for the Council of State to review the decision taken in line with the objectives drawn up. That's the one. The second thing we can probably agree on quickly is that the Council of State should not treat the offices of the Grand Council in a single way. But as I have said, we are now going to do a short process to clarify whether there is going to be any change to what the director has been authorised to decide and which he has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1758	At least the President is reasonably sure that this Council of States will continue to be a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1764	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘In the context of the debate on modernisation, efficiency and simplification in the public sector on 31 January 2002, it was decided that ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the ability of the public sector to recruit and maintain labour through equal pay for women and men and an offensive wage and employer policy’. How will the Council of State follow up this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1773	In the statement I made to the Stortinget on 24 January, I underlined that a crucial prerequisite for a better public sector is a human resources policy that seems motivating. Staff policy must ensure broad recruitment, stimulate cultural and competence diversity in the staff, facilitate conversion and transition both within the public sector and between public and private businesses and prevent the exclusion of older workers. To achieve this, we are dependent on delegating and decentralising much of the responsibility for the recruitment policy to state agencies and to the municipalities. Public administration and services must be given greater local freedom to compete for key personnel. It is important that public employers become more attractive to ensure the diversity of ideas and impulses obtained by recruiting from a wide range of groups, and they must be good at drawing on the 50 pst. by the talents of women. But they have to do it locally, and we have to make sure that they have the necessary tools, including good pay terms to offer. In this regard, it is particularly pleasing, I think, that during this year's payroll in the state, we got an impact on the largest local pot we've ever had. This gives local leaders a unique opportunity to work more actively for good recruitment. On the central level, the consideration of equal pay and recruitment is one of the considerations taken care of by the separate cross-cutting projects, as I mentioned in my presentation to the Stortinget. My department has, among other things: the responsibility for a project related to staff, organisational and management development in the public sector. A dedicated task force has been set up in the Ministry responsible for coordination. In addition, I would like to mention that the project ‘Women, Quality and Competence in the State’, a project to increase the proportion of women leaders in the country, has been completed after having gained positive experience in the period 1997–2002. At that time, the proportion of female leaders increased significantly. I will continue the good work, and new measures will be assessed. A mentoring programme has been launched for women middle managers in the country to stimulate increased recruitment to leadership positions. State Consultant runs this program on a mission from the Department. Another action is ‘Women@sen’ — a competence base where public enterprises and enterprises can look for candidates for leadership positions and candidates for directors, councils and selections from over 2800 qualified and highly competent women. The Equality Centre operates this database on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. As I said, recruitment of labour and equal pay are also a central theme of the main tariff line for the state this year. The recommended proposal provides far greater resources for local negotiations than before. We are very concerned that the local negotiations focus on the intentions I have outlined here, which have been outlined centrally in the past, while local leaders and local organisations take on the responsibility they have for equal pay and recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1786	I thank you for your answer. I note that the Minister in some way does not affect the main problem when it comes to equal pay between women and men, namely that working with people is less valued than working with technology and machines, and perhaps not forgetting money and paper moving. There are some mechanisms that are probably traditional, but there is also a thought behind that value creation takes place only in one sector, and not in the public sector. Many female-dominated professions therefore end up in a kind of low-wage trap, because the logic of private business is also a guiding principle for the formation of wages in the public sector. If you are not willing to address this problem, namely that women have traditionally been low-paid, SV does not believe that we are going to solve this problem. Does the Council of State see that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1795	It is quite clear that I see the problem which lies in the fact that there has generally been a historical difference in pay levels between occupations where there has been a clear female dominance and occupations of human domination. But I also think that we should be equally clear that this difference, among other things. because the first and, in part, the second generation of women who came to full employment were women who had a serious disability compared to very many occupational groups and were therefore widely referred to parts of the labour market which had been poorly paid. It is important to take account of the weak groups through wage-earning schemes, and it has been tried for many years to do so by both the state and the municipality. But it is at least as important that we ensure that the new generations of women have equal choices in the labour market as is the case for men. In this context, all measures contributing to the opening of women’s doors are important in order to raise the long-term salary of women who have not had the same choice as young women now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1800	I expect that the Council of State does not mean to say that everyone in the care and care professions has ended up there because they have in some way not had a starting point to complain about other professions. I note that the Council of State does not have the heart to see that raising these professions might be a matter of value, both in terms of pay and status, just to ensure that you recruit the best people. Is it true that the government's policy is essentially to compete for wages in these sectors, too few pre-school teachers, too few kindergarten assistants, too few help nurses and too few nurses, so that wages in these professions can be raised in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1807	It is quite clear that the representative, Andersen, does not want me to conduct wage negotiations here. What I'm saying, and the question is, and I tried to answer, is, what can we do about active personnel and recruitment policies to contribute both to gender equality goals and good recruitment to the state? And then I say, and I insist once again, that one of the most important measures we can take in order to generally increase the profitability of men and women is to make sure that the women who come out of the labour market now have equal opportunities and can equally easily reach the positions they want, as is the case for men. Because, no matter how the negotiations are conducted, it will also benefit women who are not currently faced with a choice but who are in professions with which they are likely to thrive, which they have probably chosen with good care, but who are in a situation where they do not have the market opportunity that young women have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1816	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The large entrepreneurs are behind the project ‘School at the workplace’. — There is a problem here. The official name is ‘School on site’. I ask that we use that term further. – «Many have received a degree in different construction subjects. The provision is primarily aimed at the unemployed, and the arrangement is a cooperation between education and the labour market seat. Due to reduced appropriations for labour market measures, the offer is deferred. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure a training scheme which is in line with the decision of the Grand Duchy to open up different pathways to the letter of formal qualifications?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1825	The project to which the representative Rikvam refers is a course model which has been tested in several counties, mainly in construction, in cooperation with Veikeck ASA and secondary school. This is a model in which theoretical knowledge is learned through experience from workplace practice. The course according to this methodology is also under assessment in new counties and is considered to be continued in a few of the counties with a course in progress. Therefore, it is not a question of an offer that is deferred, in the sense of a single course/project. There have been very good experiences and results using this model since it was launched in Telemark in 1998. Training is to a large extent conducted as a guided practice with higher education as the responsibility for theoretical training. The methodology has proved particularly appropriate for job seekers who have fallen out of or have not completed high school and who have little work experience. The offer has resulted in many professional letters and good recruitment to an industry with high labour needs. Almost all job applicants undergoing training are given permanent work. There is therefore good reason to build on the training elements of the model by planning and implementing training also in other disciplines. It is important that Aetat use its response resources at all times in such a way that the overall impact is optimised. In Telemark, therefore, the second half of this year will give priority to other disciplines with documented bottlenecks. The methodology will then be continued within the plate and welding range. The target groups will be similar to those for ‘School on construction site’, young long-term unemployed, immigrants, and younger jobseekers under 30 years of age who have not completed secondary education. This training model is relatively expensive with a high monthly cost. In addition, Aetate prioritises testing another new course concept aimed at recruitment to the health sector where elements from the model ‘School on site’ are used. Based on the guidelines and powers in force, it is up to Aetat in each State to assess and decide on the professional and professional fields in which AMO offers are to be launched. Such decisions must be taken on the basis of both labour market demand and the qualification needs of the job-seekers, and particular attention must be paid to vulnerable groups which are particularly priorities in labour market policy. Against this background, I believe that it is possible for Aetat to respect the intentions of the Storting decision to open up different pathways to professional letters when implementing qualification measures under the auspices of Aetat. And so what happened to this concrete project is not that this line is abandoned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1840	I thank you for the answer, but it may not have been very uplifting. It was a very strong emphasis on the fact that this is a good offer, that it is a good offer, it works well, we get unemployed – that’s basically what it has been – up to a professional letter in a good way. And in addition, one more thing about this special scheme that has the name «School on construction site»: This happens in an area where we lack labour, there is a shortage of labour in construction. I had thus expected the Council of State to have clearly and unambiguously signalled that in this area, the construction industry, there must be a clear and clear signal from the Aetat that we must give this priority for two reasons. Firstly, there is a need for the kind of labour that people with that kind of professional letter need. And besides, this is successful, this is something we've been successful with, so we have to take care of it. Moreover, as the Council of State also stressed, this is in line with what the Stortinget has said, that we want closer integration between work and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1845	Let me clarify – as I also did in my post: what has happened in this specific case is not that one has left the idea of closer integration between school and work; on the contrary, this is a methodology that Aetat uses in more and more states and in relation to more and more industries. What has happened in this particular case is that Aetat in Telemark, based on an assessment of the situation in Telemark, has now come to the conclusion that it is right to close this specific project and address similar methodology in relation to other job needs. At the same time, it has been seen whether there are ways to organise this type of activity in a slightly cheaper way. I cannot defend the fact that, as long as I see the intention of the Stortinge's decision is respected, the assessments that have been made here at Aetat in Telemark cannot be overestimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1857	This is going to be -- I'm going to say -- worse and worse. But I just have to notice that it will. If we keep going for a long time, it might go really bad. It is important that there is a clear and unambiguous signal that this is a project, a training, within disciplines that we want to take care of. The labour market seat has helped to develop these activities together with these enterprises. Therefore, it should be clear that as long as there is a need for this type of labour force, that type of person with that type of letter, and as long as we still have people who are unemployed and want to receive that type of training, this must be the task of the labour market parliament, together with the education sector, because they work together here. The education sector in Eastfold, Westfold and Telemark are together on this project. They put teachers at their disposal, and they work together. That is why I had actually expected the Council of State to be clear and unambiguous that we are not working here, here we have an offer that works, and that he should go out and make clear requests to his office that we should take care of this, we must develop this further within these disciplines. And then we can develop it further in other disciplines as well. I hope I can get a little more positive feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1866	This government and this Council of State have very great faith in the delegation of responsibilities and powers to those who have the best professional prerequisites for carrying out the assessment within the political frameworks drawn up by the Storing and the Government. In this case, Aetat in Telemark has assessed that this methodology is very good, and also, on the basis of an overall assessment of bottlenecks, that it is now more appropriate to have this type of action addressed to the plate and welding industries. I have no prerequisites to assess whether this assessment of the specific bottlenecks in Telemark is good or bad. But I have an office that is built up to make that assessment, and I have full confidence that that department can assess this issue better than both the Council of State and the representatives of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1878	I have this question to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Several organisations, e.g. The Foundation Landsföreningen Rechtferd for Taperna, which is fully dependent on support for maintaining its organisations and continuing to help its stakeholders, has now come into financial difficulties because they do not receive a response to their applications for aid for 2002 until early May. Could the Council of State change the procedural principles until next year, so that applications can be dealt with more quickly and more flexibly than the practice of the year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1887	As part of the division of tasks and functions between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry's grant management has been added to the newly created Directorate. This means that most grant schemes are allocated to the Ministry, to the Social and Health Directorate for Follow-up and Further Allocation. This also applies to grants to non-governmental organisations and foundations representing disadvantaged groups. Letters of allocation to the Social and Health Directorate of the Ministry of Health for 2002 point out that the departments of their grant management have allocated funds to multiannual projects. The Social and Health Directorate has been asked to take this into account when examining applications for funding for 2002. Of course, the comments made by the Social Committee on the 2002 budget will also be taken into account in the examination of applications. The Social and Health Directorate was established on 1 January 2002. It has taken some time to get procedural systems and legislation for grants in place. I have been informed that the directorate is now cleaning up this. For 2003, it is assumed that applications will be dealt with more quickly. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Landsföreningen Rechtferd für Taperne was granted advances from the Social and Health Directorate for 2002, precisely to ensure continuity of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1898	I thank you for the answer, and I hope that there will be a positive outcome to this application. But I must honestly say that it must be very frustrating for the organisations involved, who can expect to receive State aid, that it will take so long before this aid is granted. Perhaps we have come out in the middle of their own fiscal year. The Wallpaper Correction example is just one of several. These organisations shall conduct responsible operations for their organisation and interest groups and shall also have a responsibility for their employees. Although an advance is made, there is a rather difficult situation in which these organisations are put in when they do not know what is the operating basis for the financial year. In a way, the government is sitting on the organisations' money for a very long time. The additional question is: will it help if the organisations are previously out of their applications, i.e. setting an earlier deadline for application? Or is the situation this year only related to the reorganization problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1909	The main issue is the principles and improvement of current practice. After the information I have received, the directorate is about to clean this up, and for 2003 applications are expected to be dealt with more quickly. I will not exclude that improvements can be made to enable organisations to apply in the past. But as far as I have understood, the problems are linked to the reorganisation. It is now being cleaned up, and in 2003 it will be better. I have the same understanding of the frustration that the questioner expresses in relation to the organisations; this needs to be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1918	In the belief that the new practice becomes as the Council of State now clearly underlines, I will leave my last supplementary question to lie and believe that next year there will be a scheme that puts organisations in a much better position than they are in this year. Because it's not worth what we're seeing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1927	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: «For many years, Eastfold commuters have been struggling with old trainsets and critical travel comfort. The NSB's promises of shorter travel time and new trainsets are pushed into the future. What can the Council of State contribute to speeding up improvements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1936	NSB has invested in six new tilting trains for use on the Eastfold Railway. Together with measures related to the infrastructure, travel time with these train sets will decrease to approx. 1 hour and 30 minutes on the route between Halden and Oslo. The train sets are based on the same type of train as the Fly train and the NSB Signature Long Range Trains. These deliveries did not satisfy the requirements for the intended running speed. The supplier has admitted this error and has launched a bogie frame replacement application on all 38 train sets. The train sets intended to be used on the Eastfold Railway are per. today approved for driving at normal speed and with a maximum of two standing passengers per. free square metres of floor area. The NSB has provisionally chosen to run the train sets on the Kristiansand-Stavanger route, where traffic is of such volume and has such a day-to-day distribution and week-to-week distribution that it has been able to initiate procedures to ensure that the maximum number of passengers is not exceeded. The procedures and plans for the use of train sets are now being worked out so that the NSB can ensure that the limit of the number of persons on board is not exceeded. If approved, the NSB will also put trains into service on the Oslo-Halden route. The progress plan for the change of bogie frames indicates that the train sets can be inserted into the intended traffic, at heeling speed and on most take-offs between Oslo-Halden, from the summer of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1947	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The manufacturer of Bombardier has accepted the improvement of the train sets in order to achieve higher quality and standard. But there's, as the Council of State describes it, a time process here. And as I understand it, the Signature Trains and the Flyways are going to be repaired in the first row. This means that the commuters on the Eastfold line are going to be in reverse mode, and that it will be several years before they can be given an acceptable standard. Is there no way to speed this up to the train manufacturer – there is a large group of many resources that have gone wrong – so that travellers on the Eastfold Railway in Norway will not suffer for such a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1956	In the current situation, the NSB must make its priorities based on what benefits road users and what benefits traffic. It is up to the NSB to carry out these assessments in such a way that the road users should not be harmed, and that solutions are available with which the passengers are satisfied. Thus, as far as the Eastfold Railway is concerned, it has been found appropriate to install these trains at a rate of drop from 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1963	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, and I note that some faster progress is not relevant. There have been promises to the Eastern commuters for many years. Many people are losing confidence in the NSB, if they haven't already lost it. Alternatives are now coming up. We have the express buses that come with favourable offers and many departures, and many choose them as an alternative next to a friend driving. Is it not possible to risk, once these train sets are completed in the future and have to provide services to commuters, that the investments made by taxpayers do not come to an end, because large parts of the population who have lost confidence in the NSB have chosen other alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1972	I have to say that I appreciate the commitment to railway solutions, also on the Eastfold Railway. It's true, as was said here, it's important to keep the trust in the NSB, because otherwise we can lose travelers by the railway. I'll do what I can to facilitate this trust being maintained. And I very much appreciate that there is also an commitment in the Progress Party to prioritizing investment on the railway, both in general and in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1982	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Last week in the media, it was found that wheelchair users were not allowed to use local trains in the Oslo area because of their own safety and the safety of others. This is not acceptable. Norwegian policies should allow people with disabilities to use the same means of communication as others. Society must be planned in such a way that we do not have or create barriers and exclusions for people with disabilities. How will the Council of State solve the problem of the exclusion of disabled persons from public communication?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e1991	The area of operation of the NSB is operated per. today of materials supplied in the period 1979-93. About two thirds of these train sets are not adapted to disabled persons, either in relation to boarding or securing during the journey itself. The NSB plans the phase-in of new near-traffic equipment during the period 2002-2003, depending on the approval of the State Railway Authority. These are modern low-floor trainsets in parts of the train sets and their own on-board platforms so that wheelchair users can be driven straight from the platform and into their own stations equipped with the necessary equipment for securing during the journey. The NSB has put great emphasis on, and significant costs into, the organisation of the new local train sets for disabled persons. I am very positive about this, because it will provide good and lasting solutions that ensure accessibility for people with disabilities and thus solve the important problem the representative Froyn is addressing. With regard to the current train sets, the NSB has decided to carry out a risk analysis to identify all conditions around wheelchair users on a near-traffic train. This shall include: the safety of access and disembarkation under travel conditions in the event of an accident/incidental responsibilities assess whether the solutions to the already adapted train sets are satisfactory in relation to these points; The aim is to carry out this risk analysis before the summer holiday. Pending the outcome of the risk analysis, the NSB has informed that a notification has been made to all conductors that wheelchair users are to be offered alternative transport for the time being. The Joint Organisation of Disabled People and the Association of Norway is now taking part in the further work of this analysis. As far as the general policy in this area is concerned, the Government considers that mobility-impaired users of transport services should be able to be served as much as possible through the organisation of the normal transport system. The responsibility for implementing accessibility measures lies within each sector/activity and must be included as an integral part of other activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2020	I thank you for your answer. What was the reason in this case was that those who were going to use the train for their own trade fair for the disabled were a risk, not only to themselves, but also to others. Is it not understood that this is unworthy treatment of these people when they want to use public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2032	When it is pointed out that security issues are not in place, I take it very seriously. It is important that the safety of both persons with reduced mobility and others is adequately ensured. I therefore think it is reassuring that you have a proper review of it. My goal is not to provide special treatment for individual groups in society, including those with reduced mobility, in transport. Therefore, the aim and intention is that these should be integrated into the organisation in general. But with regard to the area of safety, I believe it is my duty to ensure that safety is properly maintained for all travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2041	My point is that on different occasions it has been stressed that there should be equivalence, including for disabled people, with regard to the use of public transport. I also understand that it may take time. But there has to be a significant degree of cooperation between user organisations and the NSB, possibly also the Ministry, to ensure that they feel taken seriously, that things happen in a reasonably fast process, and that they are not met with being a nuisance to the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2048	Now I hope it never happens that carriers of any kind perceive the road users as a nuisance for the system, even if you do not have a special need of any kind. I'm therefore going to work to experience an integration into the overall transport system. I would also like to point out that we are working with relevant organisations in the analysis work that is taking place, which is very important, because in this way both the needs and the aspects that are relevant and necessary to include in carrying out such an analysis can be met. I consider it both appropriate and necessary that relevant user organisations be consulted in such processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2060	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In the last week considerable uncertainty has been created in view of the future of the Nordlandsbanen. There is a need for several hundred million dollars on the maintenance side, and it is clear that some 300 million have to be invested. kr to obtain a modern railway that meets the needs of the public. Can the Council of States confirm that the necessary funds will be provided for the required maintenance and investment and adequate operation on the Nordlandsban in the future?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2069	Priorities for future funding for operation, maintenance and investments on the Northern runway are the result of the 2002-2011 national transport plan. The Railway Agency’s action programme for the National Transport Plan 2002-2005 gave a more detailed priority to the funds allocated over each year. In the action programme, the Nordlandsban will be a priority of 604 million in the period 2002-2005. SEK for operation, 132 million. kr for maintenance and 275 mill. kr for investments. The implementation of the action programme will, of course, depend on the annual budgets and the management of the annual budgets. For 2002, the budgeted operational and maintenance resources for the Nordlandsbanen are in line with the framework of the action programme. During the summer season, there will be renewed rails and sleepers for about 25 million. kr. In January this year, there were several races along the track due to storms that in addition require exceptional improvements on the Nordlandsbanen. I assume that improvements to be carried out in 2002 will be covered within the agreed 2002 allocation to the Railway Agency. The total investment for 2002 for the Railway Agency is 600 million. kr below the assumptions of the NTP action programme. This has led to no prioritisation of investments other than strictly necessary security measures and the completion of the profile extension. The profile extension was completed on 1 April this year, which is very important for freight traffic. The representative Swensen refers to investment measures of approximately 300 million. kr to get a modern railway by the Nordlandsbanen. These funds were intended for remote management — CTC/ATC — between Grong and Bodø. The measure was prioritised in NTP 2002-2011 but was subsequently re-prioritized, as the Railway Agency has decided to build emergency stops on these sections instead of CTC/ATC. It is a simpler and cheaper system than CTC/ATC and provides good safety for train traffic, cf. review in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. The track generally has a very low crossing capacity, and even small delays can have major consequences for the train running. In the context of the roll-out of the National Transport Plan, the Ministry will assess future strategies for the development of the entire national rail network, including the Nordlandsbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2080	We could have spent a lot of time describing the misery of the Nordlandsbahn, because the track is in a wretched constitution. I really don't think I got an answer to the question I asked. After all, there has been a very low level of investment and ability to invest on the Nordlandsban in order to increase the quality and capacity required to develop it. There is even doubt about its future existence. You can also see that a larger and larger part of the goods are transferred to the road, with the disadvantages that it entails. And a recent poll in Northern Ireland today shows that there is a need for an efficient and good Northern runway. 82 pst. has joined it. In St.meld. No 26 for 2001-2002 by the Ministry of Transport, it is said that ‘the appropriations for investments in railway structures should be channelled towards the main sections’. What status does the Nordlandsbanen have – or does the Nordlandsbanen have as its main section?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2089	As I said in my answer, we are for the current year in terms of funds to the Nordlandsbanen, in accordance with the action programme. The action programme is based on the treatment of the Storting by the National Transport Plan. So the Stortinget has put the lead on what you want with the Nordlandsbahn, and that's what's being followed up now. In the collective communication we had a description of what it's important to bet on in terms of the railway. The Northern Railway is a major route.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2096	It was surprising and pleasant that the Nordlandsbane is defined as the main section. I wasn't aware of that. Then there is a lead to bet on this in the future. As I understand it, the construction of a terminal has been stopped for nearly half a billion dollars in Trondheim. The Railway Agency, at Steinar Killi, has stated in Bodø that it is preferable to use these means to repair the Nordlandsbahn, among other things. maintenance, crossing tracks and investments. The Minister for Transport will consider making sure that the funds for the terminal in Trondheim are redispatched and channelled to, among others. Upgrading the Nordlandsbahn, to get it in such a condition that you do not build up the track over time, which is actually being done today because of these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2103	During the last day, I have received a lot of enquiries about what the money that was going to go to this terminal could be used for. It is clear that if this terminal is not built on Leangen, there are many relevant and interesting railway projects on the list that are proportionate to being implemented. It is clear from the list of relevant rail purposes that the Nordlandsbahn is also included.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2112	‘In the municipality of Malvik there has been a load axle of about 20 dimensions that has taken parts of E6 with it. Much indicates that the breed is due to mass flooding in connection with the motorway. This is one of several examples of race in connection with or after road work. What are the procedures for basic studies prior to such work, and what action will the Council of State take to provide more thorough pilot studies in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2119	On 24 April there was a camprace in Malvik that took a piece of a ramp to E6 and parts of a parking space. E6 through Malvik was built in 1986/1987. In connection with the road system, thorough pilot studies and follow-up of the stability of the construction phase area were carried out in accordance with the routines of the State Road Service for the construction of new roads. The road has now been stable for 16 years. In the spring of 2001 a parking space was built by the State Road Service in the area that was now partially destroyed by the race. In addition, over many years, and also recently, private consumption has been tapped in the area. I am aware that the Swedish Road Administration has engaged a consultant who, in cooperation with NTNU in Trondheim, will investigate what might have caused this crash. Before this work is completed, it is too early to establish the causal relationship. The state road authority has guidelines for the conduct of basic road site surveys. The guidelines require careful basic studies and stability assessments to be carried out as part of the planning process. On construction grounds where road flooding may lead to slippages or harmful sentences, the conditions shall be clarified by special geotechnical examinations prior to the commencement of the work. In relation to all road construction in the country, there are not many cases of a certain extent where construction has been a cause of slippage and race. When this happens at a rare time, also, construction is not always the sole cause. Natural conditions, such as: extreme amounts of precipitation can be a contributing cause. In the cases that have occurred, no evidence has been found that the requirements of the State Road Service today for basic studies are insufficient. Regular training and further training are also provided by professionals who plan and conduct basic studies. Once the outcome of the work on the cause of the breed has been completed, I will assess whether further action is necessary in the context of basic road development studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2138	I thank you for your answer. There are some things we know about the basic conditions in the area of Trondheimsfjorden where the municipality of Malvike is located. To a large extent, we talk about what during the Ice Age was seabed, which can be characterized as clay soup. Small mass movements can also trigger disasters. And even if it had nothing to do with roadwork, we had a case in Rissa in the 1970s. My question is: is it not up to the Road Administration in such areas to have a special responsibility in relation to basic studies in advance? Road construction may be a contributing cause, but responsibilities may be difficult to identify in retrospect. Isn't it better to prevent and take the costs of it than to have to repair it afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2147	It is obvious that it is important to carry out proper basic studies, especially in areas where basic conditions are known to be difficult. That's what the Vegvesen does. On a rare occasion, you have had experience that things have happened that you have not foreseen. That's why it's quite clear that we need to have a reason here, so that we can learn from it. So what happened? What was the reason for this? There is an important lesson that we can use further, both in relation to general basic studies and not least in such special areas as the representative here refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2154	As the rapporteur for the climate communication, I have worked a lot on climate change issues that follow in the waters of global warming. One of the researchers agree is that the frequency of storms with a large damage magnitude will increase most on the shores of More and Trøndelag. A wilder and warmer climate is also bad news for the transport sector. Water and clay are, as you know, no particularly lucky combination in this context. Then my question is, Has the Minister for Transport taken sufficient account of these changes that will take place in relation to the climate, in terms of racial prevention in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2163	Climate change may come under another expert council, but if the Minister of Transport wants to respond, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2166	All aspects affecting road safety, both during construction and in traffic, are elements on which the State Road Service must acquire knowledge. It is within the circumstances that need to be examined and taken into account. It is quite right that the prevention aspect, including climate change, which may mean that it is a different weather pattern than you have had before, must be part of the assessments that you make all over this country. We live in a country with great challenges. I know that as Minister of Transport, and so does the State Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2174	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘CO2 emissions from road traffic have increased by 6 pst. since 2000 and now stands for 23 pst. of the emissions. Fredrikstad municipality has launched a gas-use project from the municipal sewage treatment plant for the operation of the Fredrikstad district’s buses which can reduce CO2 emissions by 950 tonnes per year. years. What will the Council of State do to promote the use of alternative fuels that can reduce emissions from the transport sector — and offset the extra costs of purchasing gas buses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2183	For more than 10 years, the Ministry of Transport has supported a number of pilot projects relating to the use of environmentally friendly technologies and alternative fuels. A significant part of these projects has been related to the use of gas as fuel, including direct support for the biogas project in Fredrikstad. The use of gas as a fuel is a possible measure to reduce air quality problems in urban areas. In the case of emissions causing local environmental problems, especially in cities, both natural gas and biogas will provide significant improvements compared to current diesel buses. However, new exhaust requirements that will apply from 2005 and 2008 will result in new diesel buses having almost as low emissions as current gas buses in a few years’ time. The additional costs associated with the purchase of a bus designed for the use of gas as a fuel are currently large – 500000 – 800000 kroner for a bus. It is uncertain how the price difference will develop in the future, but no significant reduction in the additional costs is expected. The use of natural gas in vehicles does not result in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the use of diesel as fuel. On the other hand, biogas, which does not contain fossil carbon, is a climate-neutral fuel and can therefore reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. At the same time, the use of biogas as a fuel must be assessed against alternative uses of this gas. For example, where biogas can replace oil combustion as heating, this will in many cases be a more cost-effective climate action. I see it as a clear environmental policy objective to promote the use of more environmentally friendly energy sources and modes of transport. It is on this background that the department has engaged in individual projects such as the project in question in Fredrikstad. Among other things, through that subsidy scheme, knowledge of alternative fuels, especially in the case of the use of gas, is always good. I therefore believe that it must be primarily up to market actors to put this fuel into use. The role of the authorities will mainly be to facilitate through environmentally sound framework conditions, in particular in the area of charging policy. Biogas and natural gas are currently free of charge. Biofuel use is low in Norway compared with other Europes. As pointed out in the recent Bondevik government’s additional communication on climate policy, the Government will facilitate increased use of such fuels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2198	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough review with the background to the Sem Declaration's wish to use more environmentally friendly products, including for the operation of collective services. So in this case, it's not insignificant. One reduces by 950 tonnes of CO2 when these twelve buses come into full operation. The Road Cars of the District of Fredrikstad have developed a pilot project in which gas from the municipal sewage treatment plant is used as fuel. So the alternative is that these buses go on this fuel instead of using diesel. We'll improve the environment. It is clear that it is exciting to go ahead, but it is a paradox when the cost of purchasing these buses becomes so significant to the company. My question will then be: can the Council of State envisage a plan to reduce the cost of purchasing this type of bus?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2205	As I said in my answer, there have been grants for a number of pilot projects, including in Fredrikstad. In particular, improved framework conditions for the use of this type of environmentally friendly fuel have been provided by way of exemption. I consider this to be a significant effort on the part of the authorities, precisely as a contribution to the transition to more environmentally friendly fuels and modes of transport. At one time it will be necessary for the market to provide the best environmental solutions. We have now arranged for this, for example: through this significant fee exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2210	I want to go a little further. I feel that the Council of State is trying to go a little bit around the problem with the road cars of the Fredrikstad district. We are aware that there is a fee exemption for the fuel. However, it is clear that when it costs so much to acquire the car equipment itself, an additional subsidy should be sought from the state at this first stage – before it is possible to develop a material that is competitive at the price of those who build this type of car – if you want to get more people to move to biogas or other gas instead of diesel. The question is: is it possible for the Council of State to take this question with the Government to see if it is possible to obtain subsidies for this type of transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2219	The government is concerned with issues related to environmentally friendly solutions and climate issues. The government's policy for increasing the use of natural gas in Norway will also be addressed in a separate monitoring report presented later this year. Relevant opportunities for increased use of biogas as such in Norway will also be considered. What is my policy in this particular area is that we have to see this in context with what is going to be both the government's and the Storting's policy in terms of the use of natural gas and biogas in general. I am also concerned that we should find the best and most environmentally friendly solutions in transport. Here we have a common cause, and I see that the Storting will have a rich opportunity to make recordings in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2229	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Both Spydeberg and Eidsberg municipalities were to receive refugees this year. Dwellings were to be financed by loans and grants from the Husbank. The municipality of Spydeberg has been informed that the House Bank has used up the loan money. Eidsberg Municipality, which has been promised a grant of 40-50 p.m., has been informed that the grant has been reduced to 30 p.m. The result is that the construction of refugee accommodation must be postponed and the refugees must continue to live in reception. How has the Council of State planned to proceed in the settlement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2238	For the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001, asylum and refugee policy in Norway, the Stortinget joined last year in the proposal for a new settlement system. The new scheme was designed in cooperation with the Local Governments’ Central Association, and the KS is also part of the national sample, which determines the need for housing each year and makes a distribution between the counties. The scheme is based on the provision of housing to all residents, preferably in the areas where the refugees have family or acquaintances and want to live themselves, so that the secondary movement is reduced. Per. Today there are about 1 600 persons in reception who have been given a residence decision and who are waiting to be settled in a municipality. This number is increasing. In the first quarter of this year, there are only 923, and there are 339 fewer than in the same period last year. I'm not hiding that I'm worried about the pace of the settlement. Substantial increases are needed if we are to achieve the objective of resettlement of 8,800 people in 2002. On 21 March, I therefore sent letters to resident municipalities and asked those who wanted to live significantly less than what they had been asked to do to reconsider their decisions. I would also like to point out that the framework conditions for municipalities have been improved by increasing the integration grant for the current year to NOK 376 000 over five years, in line with the requirement of the municipal sector. The House Bank has increased the framework for grants to refugee housing, and the legislation is applied flexibly in relation to the level of prices of dwellings in different parts of the country. The house bank prioritises loans for this purpose – and has loan funds again. I see it as positive that the municipalities provide more housing for disadvantaged people, and this year the municipalities have used the Husbanken's arrangements to a greater extent than expected. The Government therefore proposed yesterday in its proposal for a revised national budget to increase the commitment framework for housing grants by 75 million. in 2002. The increase has been proposed for the earmarking of refugees. As regards the Spydeberg municipality, the Husbank informed that their application would be dealt with when the revised budget was adopted, and I can confirm that the municipality of Eidsberg has received 30 pst. in housing allowances for their refugee housing. For the purpose of the grant measurement, it shall reflect the housing market. High measurement up to 40-50 pst. are reserved for the most powerful press areas. We cannot live with a situation where refugees stay in reception for too long and do not get established in relation to work or further education. I still believe that the municipalities will do this task, but if the settlement system does not lead to faster settlement in the time that is coming, as intended, I have to consider other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2251	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that the municipality of Spydeberg is now receiving its funds, so that they can continue the project that they have started. It is clear that all local governments that have decided to settle refugees have had the assumption that this would be done with subsidies from the Husbank, both housing grants and loan funds. And when you are told from the House Bank that the loan funds have been used up, it is no wonder that the municipalities refuse to take any new decision to accept even more. Now the Council of State says that in the case of the municipality of Eidsberg, it is not in a strong enough press area to allow you to receive a higher subsidy than 30 pst. It really surprises me, when the pressure in these municipalities is so high. I then ask the Council of State: what are the reasons why you can get a higher grant than 30 pst? ?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2260	The background for some municipalities to receive a higher grant than 30 pst. would be an assessment of the housing market in individual locations, the intensity of pressure and the actual level of prices in these areas. The House Bank does this by assessing the size of different schemes. But it's clear that there's a difference, even if you're within a region you're experiencing pressure. That's an extreme difference, for example. between Oslo, which has decided the highest housing costs in the country, and a lot of other places. Other cities in Norway, even though they are press areas, also have lower costs. It is a professional assessment that the Husbank must make in respect of which municipalities they believe are entitled to have the largest grants because of the pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2265	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the case of the Loan Framework of the House Bank, they have not been increased in revision. The Workers' Party is very surprised when the House Bank now says that the loan framework is so small that already in the first quarter you have used up 60 pst. of these frameworks. This means that there are a lot of applications that have to be left over next year. Then my question to the Council of State is: Is it acceptable to have such a low loan framework in the House Bank? You have to limit the construction that could have been done, which you can see over a period of time has been very increasing, when you don't now give the House Bank a higher loan framework. Even Husbanken’s director states that if this trend continues, some priority needs to be put in place as from 1 July. We believe that to be totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2274	It is quite obvious that this year there will be a priority for loan applications, just as in previous years, including last year, was a priority for which projects receive money. The government's priorities are clear. So in relation to the main question that was raised here, namely financing refugee housing, this will always be a priority area in relation to the loan framework. That's also why when the question says there's no loan money to Spydeberg, it's not right. There are issues about getting grants, which have been limited, and which we are doing something about the revised national budget. The priority of the Government is clear, it is the social objectives that the House Bank pursues that will be given priority. There are projects relating to the homeless, projects relating to the start-up loans for young people and disadvantaged people that will be protected from the need to be limited. What remains, then, will be normal housing, as it is then not likely to be in the queue until next year. Indeed, it is fully possible in the Norwegian credit market to finance ordinary housing as most dwellings are financed, namely through the normal credit and loan frameworks of the banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2285	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘It is a policy objective to qualify long-term unemployed people for long-term work. Current legislation may be an obstacle. In Hedmark and Oppland, cooperative public activities have merged on a project to coordinate employment policy instruments and therefore seek regulatory dispensation. The Ministry of Social Affairs is very much in favour of this in a hearing opinion, but the Ministry of Labour and Administration is reprehensible. Will the Council of State cut through and open for such a pilot project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2294	The Government agrees with the objective of coordinating the instruments of employment policy. It is also an objective to facilitate the conditions for possible reforms through trials that could pave the way for general legislative and regulatory changes. The labour market in Norway today is tight, and we have a high demand for skilled labour in both the public and private sectors. Today, however, we have a group that does not participate in the labour market for various reasons. The requirement for formal competence is increasing. Persons without work have limited opportunities, and many are in such a situation that they do not have financial or personal resources to start a course of education on their own. Hedmark County wants to coordinate employment policy instruments so that the unemployed are given the opportunity to retain the daily allowance and social assistance beneficiaries to retain social assistance during training and to qualify for longer-term benefit. The aim is to provide a common method of motivation and clarification in the relevant departments, in this case the Aetate, the Social Security Act and the social services. In addition to developing guidance and clarification arrangements, emphasis is placed on the provision of skills for people in the target group who can contribute to their return to work. In the view of the Government, attempts at coordination of instruments within different departments working with the target group in different ways, which can create motivation and competence, are positive. The framework around the attempts of the Government so far invited has been simplification efforts. Of course, user adaptation is important in such a context. However, it is not easy to increase rights-based benefits through such an experiment. Therefore, some elements of this experiment may pose problems in relation to current legislation and the rights of the day. The government is interested in developing such attempts, but there is a need for a dialogue on the framework around them. We also have to make sure to see this in connection with other work done in this area. The issue of a single social, labour and social security unit is to be addressed in 2002 and is about the coordination of the various services. Coordination of the instruments of employment policy is interesting, also in the light of this work. As a conclusion, I would like to stress that we have not said that we are negative to this attempt. We want to engage in a dialogue that allows this experiment to be carried out within the framework and possibilities of the legislation, but the extension of the entire daily payment scheme to finance long courses of education is now very far from the principles underlying day-to-day pay in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2305	The Council of State gave you a very good presentation of both the objectives and the project itself, and it gives you a positive message, that one will look at the possibilities within today's framework and regulatory framework. But the point is that today's legislation applies for a derogation in order to test out a project for the benefit of the long-term unemployed who may lack both resources and personal resources to obtain the necessary training to qualify for employment. As the Council of State itself says, the requirement for competence increases for the time being. The Ministry of Social Affairs also stresses in its consultation statement that this is a very positive measure, yes, they say it is in line with a policy objective of better coordination. What is then the problem is that the Ministry of Labour and Administration finds this difficult to implement within today's legislation. But the point is that here you want a derogation from the legislation, so that's what I ask the Minister for Social Affairs to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2314	We are positive in trying to find a way to bring this into line with the legislation we have, with the extension and amendment of the legislation, but there is therefore a funding plan for this experiment, which means that people will be granted rights to daily allowances that are not only temporary but over a long period of time contain a guarantee for that. It's breaking with the entire daily money code. The calls we have had for simplification have not resulted in additional funding from the State budget in order to implement them. So these are people who initially don't have a permanent right, but they get a right that goes beyond what they have in terms of money in relation to today's legislation. It's hard, and it makes us need time to go through how we can get the intent of the experiment implemented. There may have to be some changes to the experimental plan drawn up by Hedmark County Municipality and Uppland County Municipality, precisely because we need to find a way to adapt it to the way the legislation works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2319	I think the answer is positive, to the extent that one will try to find a solution to this. But I have to remind the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that they have concluded a framework agreement with Hedmark County Municipality and Uppland County Municipality. In fact, the Ministry has committed itself to providing both counselling and opening up exemptions where the legislation can prevent positive development attempts, and this is precisely such a development attempt that these counties have prioritised in consultation with the co-operative parties responsible, and on which they now want to get the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to participate. So actually, I just want to ask the ministry to follow up what is the intention of the framework agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2324	We'll follow up on what's the framework agreement. We have a problem that here one assumes that one should spend money that is essentially not the individual's property or right as such. This makes it a problem, because it means, in practice, putting in place additional appropriations related to a relationship, if one is to carry out the experiment as outlined. But we are prepared to try to find solutions that will enable us to implement parts of this project, but we need to make adjustments so that we do so within a sound financial framework. Only when we have it within that kind of framework will we also be able to assess this in relation to today's system. We know that if we just spend more money, there's probably more things we can solve, but it must be a realistic project in relation to the framework that is also being used today in the same groups of public budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2332	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘The union of false prisoners believes that there are still many Northmen who are not decently honored for their war effort. Some heroes have received their comments from the post office, while others who have been made aware that they are eligible for an award have been informed that they must submit an application. Does the Council of State think that this is a worthy way of honoring war heroes?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2341	Chances are that this question will be answered on May 8th, which, besides being our day of release, is also the day of the veterans. I have to admit that the actual situation underlying the question is not quite what I ideally want. The question indicates that we are not always able to treat our war veterans as well as we would like. I still want to make some history and some clarifications. As early as 1949, the then government made a decision to end the distribution of the highest war decorations. In practice, this led to the end of the state council awarding of our highest marks for war effort in 1951. After this period, exceptions to the general rule have been made on three occasions, in 1979, 1981 and 1986. The derogations were for merchants in the merchant fleet and in the navy. I'll stay a little while by the last major resumption of war decoration. At kgl. The resolution of 24 October 1986 decided to resume the distribution of war decorations to war sailors in the merchant fleet. The resumption had its basis in the general opinion that the personnel of the merchant fleet had still not received the recognition and honor of their efforts during the war. The task was solved by the appointment of a special war decoration council, which, between 1986 and 1991, arranged for the distribution of decorations to more than 12,000 war ropes. The first medals were awarded by a solemn ceremony at Akershu's fortress with H.M. King Olav present. The other medals were largely awarded by either the county or the rapporteur. I mention it because it was then stressed that the allocation of decorations should take place in dignified forms. With regard to the statements made by the representative Simonsen that the awards have been sent to the post office, and with regard to the application procedures to which he refers, I assume that it is the Delta Medal to which it is intended. This medal is awarded in a number of 200-300 per. years. Unfortunately, there is no archive from the time immediately after the war indicating who has received the Medal of Attendance. It has therefore been necessary to promote an application. In practice, it may be the individual himself, associations, public authorities, doctors, priests or relatives. Nevertheless, I am not satisfied that medals and diplomas are awarded directly to the individual by mail. This practice will now be changed. In districts where we have military representation, the defense will make the distribution. In other cases, the rapporteur or another public body will be asked to carry out a legitimate task. I therefore hope, both on the basis of the initiative of the representative Jan Simonsen and because I actually agree with him, that this will be treated in a worthy way, that we can get a more dignified award of the Delta Medal in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2360	Is the questioner satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2363	I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence now wants to change the practice. I'm glad we've got a defense minister who shows the power to act in solving small and big issues. And this is not a small matter – for those who are involved, there is a lot of emotion involved. I am convinced that our war heroes and also the members of the Falstad Prisoners' Association will be very pleased with the conclusion of the Minister of Defense's reply, and that they now see that we have a Minister of Defense who wants to treat our war heroes with the respect they deserve. And I think it's very funny that this positive attitude is coming out today, on 8 May. I hope now that the ministry will make sure to inform at least the organizations that exist for our war heroes, so that they are made aware of the positive attitude that the Minister of Defence now has. I hope that she also benefits from her positive attitude, both for her own part and for the party she represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2370	Does the Minister of Defence need to add or subtract anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2373	I would like to return some of the commendable compliments. I think it's also great that the representative Simonsen addressed this matter, and I think it's a good example of how Storting's Question Time should be used, as an opportunity to find better solutions in the future than what we've had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2378	The President will note that it is not every year that Storting's Question Time falls on May 8th.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2384	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘Norwegian soldiers are under American command in Afghanistan. Norwegian soldiers may cross-refer to the fact that the United States and Norway have not signed the same instruments of international law and/or that the interpretation of international humanitarian law is different. Can the Council of State guarantee that Norwegian soldiers do not contribute to violations of the Land Mines Convention? [[not yet signed by the United States]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2393	Participation in multinational operations where different countries have different international legal obligations, or different interpretation of the same obligations, is not a new issue. In any international military operation, this is an important issue whether it is in NATO operations in the Balkans or in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. This is called ‘legal interoperability’ and is usually resolved by common instructions for the use of power, or Rules of Engagement, which satisfy the national and international obligations of all participating nations, or by otherwise taking into account the specificities of individual nations. This is also the case in Afghanistan. The Norwegian soldiers are under American command. However, Norway has written to the United States as a condition for Norwegian participation that the soldiers are under Norwegian jurisdiction and cannot be assigned to missions that involve breach of Norwegian law or Norwegian obligations under international law. Norwegian forces are well trained to comply with Norwegian international obligations and will therefore not be given a mandate or do anything that violates Norwegian Convention obligations. I am sure that both this relationship and the organisation of the way Norwegian forces operate in Afghanistan will prevent the forces from coming into situations where they are at risk of getting to grips with Norwegian law or Norwegian international obligations. I would also like to mention that the defence has sent a Norwegian lawyer to Afghanistan to advise the Norwegian quota manager on these matters. The representative Haga mentions that the United States is not a party to the Mines Convention. I can state that Norwegian forces will under no circumstances use anti-personnel mines. The prohibition of use, which is enshrined in Norwegian criminal law, also applies to Norwegian soldiers abroad. The definition of use is limited to physical deployment, not to being protected by minefields issued by others. This is explicitly specified in Ot.prp. No 72 for 1997-1998, which was the basis of the law implementing the Mines Convention in Norwegian law. Furthermore, the threshold to be met indicates that participation for use is high for military personnel executing orders. Of course, there may be real situations where the border is not always as easy to draw, but the threshold should not be set so low that in practice it prevents Norway from participating in multinational operations. Finally, I would also like to stress that although the United States is not a party to the Additional Protocols to the Geneva Conventions, they will nevertheless be bound by many of the rules: the Additional Protocols contain basic humanitarian principles, including: the protection of civilians and others not actively involved in hostilities. Many of these rules must be regarded as customary rules by which all States are bound. I therefore assume that we can be absolutely sure that Norwegian soldiers adhere to Norwegian conventions and Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2406	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We have little information about what Norwegian soldiers actually contribute to Afghanistan. The fact that they are involved in demanding tasks that require considerable individual judgement may hardly be in doubt. It also expressed the Minister of Defence's response. Through the parents of a Norwegian soldier, I have understood that relatively young soldiers are involved in Afghanistan, down to at least 22–23 years old. The question is whether it would have been an advantage for soldiers to have had more life experience before taking part in such demanding operations. Has the Minister of Defence assessed the age limit for soldiers involved in such demanding international missions as the operation in Afghanistan actually is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2415	The level of resistance of Norwegian soldiers, I believe, is extremely high. The basis for that position is the feedback I get about Norwegian soldiers from our allies that we operate with outside. Just the feedback I have received on Norwegian soldiers from Kosovo, and also from Afghanistan, on the job they do, makes me sure that there is no need to introduce an age limit. The training we give our soldiers, in addition to the selection criteria we use, is sufficient. I understand that many parents are concerned about their children – young people – they are the whole life, even though they are far above the age of authority. But I would like to stress that we send soldiers based on volunteering, and with the best possible training in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2422	I thank you again for the answer. Little back to information in relation to Afghanistan. Thus, very limited information is provided to the public about Norwegian soldiers’ participation in Afghanistan, as well as unusually little information related to the development of the country’s struggles. According to the opinion of the Centre Party, this is unfortunate. We do not, of course, want to contribute in any way to compromising the soldiers or their families, but per. Now, as we see it, there is so little willingness on the part of the defence management to provide information that it provides the basis for faith and doubt and speculation, perhaps even speculation that there is absolutely no reason to have. Another aspect is that when the public knows so little, it is also more difficult for us politicians to defend against our voters that resources should be used. My question to the Minister for Defence is: Will the Minister for Defence reconsider his strategy in relation to public information, also in order to avoid unnecessary speculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2431	On that question, I will answer a clear no. In general, the defence has been very open with information on Norwegian participation in Afghanistan. This applies to all our contributions, except the special forces. However, the press interest has been greatest for the special forces. What our special forces are doing is, among other things: mission behind enemy line and within counter-terrorism. Here, there is a far higher and different risk than in other assignments. In the previous supplementary question, a letter from a mother was referred to. I also get many letters, and those letters relate primarily to the security of those we have down there. They will have worked closely with allied forces, and part of the operating pattern and techniques is such that if they are revealed, you won't be able to use the same techniques for the future, and that could put life at risk. That is the last thing that the Minister of Defence wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2442	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The defence and NATO will bind large areas in Sámi areas of Finnmark to practice bombing from fighter planes and helicopters and to test out new cruise missiles. Is it the Government's intention to implement the defence's new plans in Halkavarre, Finnmark, and is this in line with Norway's obligations in relation to the Basic Law § 110a, international obligations and international conventions that Norway has ratified?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2451	First a little bit of history. The garrison in Porsanger was established in 1946 and built in the 1950s. Later, a contract was concluded with Finnmark Soil Sales Commission to attach land to the Porsangmoen and Halkavarre shooting grounds. The Supreme Court held in its 1986 judgment that the use of Halkavarre by the defence was not unlawful in relation to reindeer management, but conditional payment of compensation for disadvantages and additional work. Following the judgment of the Court of First Instance, a compensation scheme for access to reindeer rights was established. The agreement on compensation for reindeer operations has now expired and negotiations have been under way with reindeer management since 1996 for the renewal of the contracts. In the absence of other points of view, in the years following 1996, the State has paid annual compensation at the old rates. Several of our most important allies train and want to train their forces under demanding conditions in Norway. Modern operations are complex and increasingly involve remote-delivered weapons from aircraft and helicopters. Such operations require training under realistic conditions. Norwegian participation in international operations requires Norwegian integration with allied units. If we are to be able to receive allied assistance to Norway in an attack on us, the situation must be facilitated for allied exercise activities in Norway, not least in North Norway, to ensure that sufficient allied units can operate effectively under Norwegian conditions. It's vital to our security. New weapon technology has also created new needs. Norwegian F-16 aircraft are being updated and are getting weapons that can be used against ground targets. This capacity must be faithfully practised. It's also important that we train with those we're going to operate with in concrete operations. Access to Halkavarre shooting grounds has been and is important for the addition of alliert training activities to North Norway, not least because Halkavarre is the only shooting area in North Norway that can be used for training Norwegian air defence air to ground capacity. There is now a process in place to clarify the future needs of defence for the use of Halkavarre. It may be appropriate to extend the safety zones around the field because the aeroplanes may have to operate from higher altitudes than before. The exercise field itself is not planned to extend beyond any minor adjustment of the field boundary in the terrain. Close dialogue will be held with local interests, business interests and minority interests. In this context, the relationship with Norwegian legislation and obligations under international conventions will also be carefully assessed. Regardless of the solutions developed for future use, the defence will focus on avoiding plans and interventions that are incompatible with established obligations towards minority groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2470	I want to thank you for the answer, but the Council of State's description of the process is completely different from that of the media. I don't think it's nice that those who live in the area, and those who use the area, are startled and provoked. The defense takes care of itself as if the area was popular, says the Vice President of the Sametinge. I believe that the defence has taken unwise and impossible shortcuts in relation to the law we have for ordinary purposes, and in relation to the special obligations we have in this area. The Sami population is promised by political authorities that no intervention should take place in Sami areas until the suspension of the Joint Committee has been addressed, and at least the Sameeting must give its consent if something is to happen at this time. I want to ask the government if perhaps the government has already given consent to NATO exercises in the Halkavarre shooting field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2479	That allies practice Halkavarre is old news. It's happened before. It is quite common for our allies to practice with Norway in Northern Norse areas, as well as in Halkavarre. But I understand the representative Lund's view of the media that has been, because there has been undue alarm. There has been an impression in the media that the Ministry of Defence has finalised the objectives of various parts of the Defence for the future use of Halkavarre. The processes haven't come that far. The Ministry of Defence will be in good contact with local communities in Northern Norway, including minority interests, in the further run-up. We will place considerable emphasis on Norwegian defence needs, and we will focus – of course – on Norway’s NATO commitments, which include the need for future training with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2486	I guess I'm not much in doubt about who created this turmoil, and who has been acting incorrectly. Now I understand that the Council of State confirms that the defence is prepared to carry out its intentions of the great expansion in this area. I have to say that in listing what to take into account in this process, there is very little emphasis on our obligations towards indigenous people's rights. We have joined an ILO Convention on this, we have a UN Convention, and we also have the Fundamental Law's protection of indigenous people's rights. I think it's a very important question that Sametinget asked in connection with this. Also the relationship with Russia, which expresses scepticism to international exercises in this area, makes people unsafe. No later than today in NRK Sami Radio, the Russian ambassador has said that the Russians don't like it if it opens up to such exercises, i.e. international exercises, so close to this limit. I would like to ask: have the Russian authorities been informed about the plans it is now working on, and what is their response?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2495	I want to be quite clear that with regard to the planning of alliert exercise in Norway, it is a Norwegian issue. That there are protests from the Russian team is nothing new, but it is not governing our choice of defence activities and practice activities, we take note of that. At the same time, I would say that the plans we are now looking at in the Ministry of Defence are not about an extensive expansion of Halkavarres, but a possible extension of the security zone because this is the only air-ground training field in the Air Force, and because new technology makes the planes operate from higher altitudes – it also makes it natural to look at the security zone. However, in the future, it will also be the pure Norwegian, national needs – including the needs of the alliance – which will be the basis of the Ministry of Defence's policy on exercises on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2508	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘It is claimed that after the military exercise ‘Strong Resolve’, fully usable equipment and a number of foodstuffs were discarded without any recovery. It was also claimed that it was done when this was the cheapest option for the defense. Will the Council of State defend such an action, or will the Council of State look into the procedures so as to avoid this for the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2517	I do not in any way defend the uncritical throwing of equipment and groceries after exercises. After the ‘Strong Solve’ exercise, both equipment and groceries were discarded, but on different bases. After the "Strong Resolve", the Defence Logistics Organisation opened up to allow rehearsal soldiers to retain the parts of the personal equipment of which the Defence has a surplus. It was assessed to be a reasonable and reasonable solution for the disposal of surplus material. ==References== 1 300 soldiers and officers were offered to take over equipment. About 1,000 soldiers and officers accepted the offer, while the other 300 returned the material. The equipment had been in use throughout the exercise. In the assessment of how to dispose of the surplus equipment, among others: the price of washing and cleaning and the volume of work involved in handling the equipment assessed against the expected selling price. The defense concluded that the most appropriate solution was to destroy the equipment. However, in the past, I have taken the initiative to review the disposal procedures for the future. In this context, the existing procedures for the disposal of material in the context of exercises will also be reviewed. Both the Salvation Army and non-governmental organisations could be relevant recipients of unnecessary equipment, and such possibilities need to be better checked. When it comes to throwing food, the matter is a little different. The defense can't give away food that you can't fully accept for quality. In advance of the exercise «Strong Resolve», all the departments were required to return hermetics that had not been opened, and it was given away approx. 1 m3 hermetics to King Carl Johan's Labour Foundation, which distributed this to, among others. The Church's Bymission and the Salvation Army. After the exercise «Strong Solve», however, food waste was shed, mainly rinses, i.e. food residues, but also some food. I guess this corresponded to 100 g per. person per person day(s) For reasons of food hygiene, it may be irresponsible to bring back surplus food if it has been transported, split, soiled, high temperature or stored unsupervised during an exercise, because it could involve a risk of disposing of food which does not fully satisfy the necessary requirements. It is not an easy task to calculate the exact consumption of food for an exercise. There will therefore also be profit situations in the future. However, I think we need to distinguish clearly between foods that are durable, hermetics, etc., and foods that can pose a food hygiene risk to the consumer. My goal shall be to minimize the last group, non-sustainable food, so that as much as possible must be discarded or destroyed after practice for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2532	I thank the Council of State for a good and satisfying answer. I hope that what she said in the answer, will also be implemented, which I obviously assume, so that we get rid of things like this. But with, among others: The belt car case in a fresh memory is a bit of a shame that this question came up, I think. The Party of Presidents wants the defence to be given the financial resources they need. At the same time, the Progress Party is also critical of how the Defense disposes of its assets, because the signals it gives in this way will reflect the people's views and opinions about the Defence budgets in the future. In addition, we know that there are many organisations, such as: The rescue arm, which may be positively susceptible to various abandoned military equipment. Therefore, it is not certain that what is cheapest for the Defense there and then, like throwing equipment, is in the length.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2539	This is where the representative, Mr Bredvold, and I have quite the same vision. Goodwill is an important value, and the goodwill can often not be measured in dollars and cents you save by an action, but it is also measured by the will to take care of resources and to think of holistic social solutions. That's why I'm glad that the defense after the "Strong Resolve" gave away hermetics that benefited organizations like the Salvation Army. I am glad that surplus material was given away to those who had been in the rehearsal exercise, although there were 300 people who did not want to use it. The ideal thing was that the equipment after these 300 had also been tried to give away, even if it did not bring the kroner directly into the box of the Defense there and then. I am absolutely sure that the representative Bredvold and I have the same starting point and the same goal, and I also believe that these things have been fairly clearly communicated to the Defence Logistics Organisation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2546	The goodwill thing is extra important. Maybe on a day that today, May 8th, our day of release, really is a bit of a shame that this question comes up. But we could read in the Address Paper that Colonel Olav Pettersen admits that part of the material was unused and in good condition, that is, that which was disposed of and thrown. We take it to ourselves, so it's not going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2551	It doesn't really change what was my main answer, namely, that where the defense has surplus material, used or unused, it's optimal to allow others to benefit from it, rather than to destroy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2556	The President notes that we are at the limit of the regulatory time for the morning meeting. Taking into account the option, the President will assume that no one will oppose the completion of the Questionnaire beyond the framework of the morning meeting, with the three remaining questions. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2572	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2578	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: ‘The Ministry of Defence decided in 1994 to establish the training of Air Force firefighters on Andøya. I'm now familiar with the defense wanting to move this education to the Rygge Air Station. This is without any impact assessment, especially on the environment and the economy. Will the Council of State stop this move until such an investigation is available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2587	As part of the change of defence, there has been a great deal of emphasis on organising the education system in a more holistic way. The training in Defence has been organised by many small and operationally expensive units. A more comprehensive organisation with greater geographical concentration and increased emphasis on joint solutions provides room for future economic savings and helps to create more powerful environments of competence. As part of the foundation work for St.prp. No In the autumn of 2000, 45 for 2000–01, it was investigated to bring together basic defence training in the Air Force, i.e. tasks related to aerodrome repair, watch and safety, fire protection and explosive cleaning. The reports of this investigation have previously been forwarded to the Stortinget as part of the defence committee's examination of St.prp. No 45 in a letter of 16 March 2001 from the Council of State Godal. The basic air defence training has so far been very widespread — in Andøya, Bodø, Ørland, Rygge and Kjevik airstations. At Stortingen's treatment of St.prp. No 45 it was decided to set up a ground-based support inspectorate at Rygge during 2002. The proposal makes it clear that basic defence training would be organised in the field of Rygge and subject to this support inspectorate. In Rygge the necessary facilities are already present, and Rygge appears to be an environmentally suitable location. In addition, the relocation is subject to the condition of building up a comprehensive basic defence training course for the Air Force. In my view, this solution ensures that fire-resistant training is transferred to Back the overall requirements for comprehensive solutions and helps to create a more powerful environment of competence. The available Rugg infrastructure meets both the requirements for locations and the necessary emission permits to complete the training. The transfer is considered to be in accordance with the assumptions of St.prp. No 45 and the treatment of the Storting. I consider that any stop in implementation would be contrary to Stortinget's clear desire to keep the timetable for the changes that result from last year's treatment of St.prp. No 45. On this basis, I find it natural that the implementation of this change of organisation is done as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2610	I just want to thank the Council of State for a clarifying answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2618	‘The Government has notified that 0-tolerance should be introduced as regards the discharge of oil from the oil installations on the Norwegian base. The same guidelines are clearly not used for oil spills from the port of Narvik. These wrecks have been leaking considerable amounts of oil for a long time. This has been pointed out by the Ministry without any action being taken. Does the Council of State base the same 0-tolerance on emissions from these wrecks as from the oil installations?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2625	In St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002 The Government announces that it will ensure that the objective of zero emissions of environmentally hazardous substances at sea is achieved. The target includes both oil and added and naturally occurring chemical substances in produced water from the oil industry. Thus, the zero emission target is established for the overall large emissions of oil and chemicals occurring during oil production. In the case of shipwrecks from World War II in Narvik port, dripper cases have been observed, especially from one of these wrecks, namely ‘Erich Giese’. The wreck contains approx. 300 m3 oil, divided into 26 tanks. Of the four wrecks in Narvik port that were thoroughly investigated in the summer of 1999 under the control of the State Pollution Control Agency (SFT), only this one wreck contained significant quantities of oil. In addition, between 6 and 10 m3 of oil is registered in the wreck of ‘Georg Thiele’. The studies also included the wreck of ‘Boardale’, which is located in Bø in the western part of the island. State pollution control, SFT, says in its report: «Continuously smaller emissions from the wrecks containing oil are in progress, but quantities are so small and scattered that oil protection measures cannot be implemented against this.» The SFT further argues that the wrecks will generally be weakened over time, with increasing oil emissions over a long period of time. The probability of sudden crashes with subsequent major emissions is low, says the pollution authorities, represented by the Directorate. The oil on board the wrecks in question is of a relatively light type which will be partially degraded into the water masses before the surface is reached and large parts will evaporate when it reaches the surface. Therefore, available oil on the surface of the sea for combating will be significantly less than, for example: for equivalent discharges of heavier bunker oils. The SFT further states in its recommendation: on the basis of the studies carried out and the evidence available, it will not recommend that the wrecks «Erich Giese», «Georg Thiele» or «Boardale» be emptied. The costs associated with emptying are too high in relation to the environmental benefits that can be achieved. When, overall, the SFT does not find it possible to recommend an empty operation on the basis of an in-depth assessment of technical, environmental and cost considerations, I see no reason at this point to review this. The preparedness for oil pollution in the Narvik area was also reinforced in 1993–1994 due to these wrecks, and it was then invested in 5 million. kr for the purchase of new oil protection equipment. The equipment is stored and maintained by the municipality and regular exercises are carried out in the area where the SFT is also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2645	I'm sorry the minister doesn't want to go in and empty the wrecks. We have constantly seen that there have been oil spills from these wrecks, and oil is still being observed on the water surface in Narvik port. In addition, there is a flight ashore a bird that has been killed and that has been full of oil. A video has been sent to the department where you can see the relatively rapid drip leak from the wrecks. It is also, of course, that sudden leakage can occur by weakening the wrecks over time, but although there is a ban on anchoring in Narvik port, there has been an accident, and if you had taken the wrong action, you would suddenly have got total emissions. So I believe that the need to clear these wrecks is present. I hope the minister takes it with him and looks at it more carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2652	I'm more than happy to take it with me. When the representative Svendsen takes this up, I take it seriously. We already know each other well, and I know that the representative Svendsen does not tend to shout “wolf” without any reason. When the representative says that I do not want to remove this oil, I have to say that when the professional authorities in the area, the State pollution control department, say that it is not recommended to start emptying the wrecks, and that the costs associated with emptying are too large in relation to the environmental benefits that can be achieved, I would normally have thought that this was a reasoning that the representative Svendsen would also have felt for. But I take the invitation to follow the matter carefully. In fact, in pollution cases like this, we have pollution control, and also the responsibility for this type of concrete environmental assessment. In fact, I do not have the professional competence to verify this. But it's clear that we have to follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2659	I thank you for your answer. It's clear that I'm putting significant emphasis on what SFT says. But I also put considerable emphasis on what the port manager in Narvik says, what local authorities see the danger signals, says. I hope the minister will also take this with him in his assessments of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2664	I'll do that. I then see the statements by the representative Svendsen as a confirmation that the Progress Party will support me in the work on a zero-emission strategy, including in the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, that this premise is accepted for further work, and that, therefore, one takes up a matter like this and sees it in that context. I think that's important. So we have the world's cleanest and richest seas right outside the barents' bedroom door, and it has to be in the future as well. We also have to work in relation to the other sea areas, both the Norwegian Sea and the North Sea, to make them cleaner. So I appreciate the exposure, but have difficulties in overcoming the pollution authorities at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2673	The President will assume that the term ‘right outside the living room door’ was figuratively understandable in terms of the Barents Sea!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2679	‘An important conclusion to the 1992 Rio Environment Conference was the importance of the participation of non-governmental organisations in key forums and delegations where environmental and resource management decisions were taken. This has been updated at the Rio+10 follow-up conference. What has been done by the Council of State and what initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure the meaningful participation of non-governmental organisations in relevant bodies and delegations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2686	Transparency and participation are prerequisites for success in achieving the ambitious goals we set for international environmental and development work. In this context, I am thinking in the first place of the organisations' ability to see and participate in their policy design and follow-up. The government is therefore taking a number of initiatives to ensure that organisations are involved in the preparation of the important summit on sustainable development for the autumn in Johannesburg, Rio+10. There have been representatives from the voluntary organisations in the official Norwegian delegations at all preparatory meetings and there will be two representatives at the last preparatory meeting in Indonesia during the month of May to June. One will consider extending the organisational participation in the delegation to the Johannesburg meeting, which the representative addresses. Besides the delegation, we feel that there is an open and constructive dialogue between the organisations and the authorities at the preparatory meetings. In preparation for Johannesburg, the National Committee on International Environment, NIM, has also been extended. This is a consultative body between voluntary organisations and the Government, focusing primarily on active dialogue in connection with Norwegian participation in international meetings and conferences. In parallel, a number of other meetings have taken place in which the organisations and the political authorities have exchanged views on the Johannesburg process. We also want an active dialogue in months to come before the summit. Norway has also actively pursued broad and interactive dialogue with voluntary organisations in political presentations. Furthermore, the Government attaches great importance to access to information through the Internet with regular updates of national and international news material. In addition, a framework for discussion and input into the Norwegian Sustainable Development Strategy has been developed. In the case of financial support, the Government contributes significant funds to the preparatory process to support the participation of non-governmental organisations and other interest groups. Among other things, much support has been given to the Forum on Development and the Environment. This is an umbrella organisation that holds both critical distance and at the same time is in continuous dialogue with the politicians and the civil service. In addition, the Government has contributed financially to ensuring enhanced international coordination between the voluntary organisations in the Johannesburg preparations. It is also important to contribute to the same opportunities for organisations and authorities in the south to form an open and participating platform for further work on sustainable development. Therefore, the Government also provides financial support through the United Nations to ensure South participation. Finally, I would like to draw a parallel to the work of achieving better international environmental management under UNEP, the United Nations Environment Organisation. In this context, it has been a priority task to ensure that voluntary organisations have a natural place in the decision-making processes around UNEP. We've made use of the resources to get to this, especially in terms of participation from the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2709	I am very pleased that the Minister stresses that transparency and participation are a prerequisite for good environmental and resource management. I also record that the Minister of yesterday's World Gang has an excellent article on the challenges we face in managing the Barents Sea. The Minister writes: ‘However, the stock of Norwegian-Arctic cod and hake is outside safe biological limits.’ Once we know how important it is with openness and participation, it may not be surprising that this is precisely managed in the total closedness and without the participation of non-governmental organisations. Then I wonder: When are environmental organisations to have access to the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission? And can we get transparency around the negotiating position of the Norwegian government, so that in the administration of the cleanest and richest seas we also get openness and participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2718	I guess this is a little bit on the side of the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2721	Yes, absolutely. This has nothing to do with the main question that was asked. This is a completely different matter, which does not fall within my department either. This is the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries. In relation to the Johannesburg process, we will continue to have a very close and open dialogue with the organisations, which are important in order to achieve goals. We have had good experience and good cooperation with organisations, and with regard to global environmental management and the question of whether we, for example. shall have a High Commissioner for the Environment, and whether we are to upgrade UNEP's work, organisations have also been an important driver. Norwegian non-governmental organisations and NGOs that have participated have also addressed other NGOs internationally and have contributed to their spread. And we've been able to influence other governments to take a more progressive view here. Among other things, the United States came in with support for the Norwegian initiative in relation to establishing a scientific panel in areas other than climate under UNEP.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2728	My main question was what the minister had done to facilitate meaningful participation in the forums and bodies in question, and was not just about what is happening to Johannesburg. With regard to the management of the cleanest and richest seas, the Barents Sea, there is definitely such a topical forum where meaningful participation in resource and environmental management can take place. It is quite right that environmental responsibility lies in many departments. But is there going to be one policy for the negotiations of the Ministry of the Environment and another policy for the negotiations of the Ministry of Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2738	The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the sectorial responsibility for the monitoring of the marine environment. This is one of our big bets, and it's also a pioneer work, because we have an eco-approach to the sea. But the question was: ‘An important conclusion of the Rio Environment Conference... was the importance of the participation of non-governmental organisations in important forums...What has the Council of State done, and what initiatives will the Council of State take, in order to ensure the meaningful participation of non-governmental organisations...?’ Also in this context, I believe that it is natural to relate to Rio+10 and Johannesburg. With regard to the participation of NGOs in the negotiations and samples under the Ministry of Fisheries, which are also a follow-up to the communication on the marine environment, the representative is free to follow up this question in new Questionnaires. I'll meet that dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-08.ana.ud20e2752	Case No. So 1 is done.
