ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e28	Four permit applications are available: from the delegation of the European Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly's 48th session in Istanbul, Turkey, on the leave from 14 November to 19 November for the representatives of Kjetil Bjørklund, Per Roar Bredvold, Gunnar Halvorsen, Trond Helleland, Jon Lilletun and Per Ove Width from the representative of Ivar Kristiansen on leave from 19 November to 21 November to take part in a conference under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Arctic Cooperation in Ottawa from the representative of Olav Aksselsen on leave from 19 November to 21 November to take part in a trip to Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, appointed rapporteur for the Palestinian refugees from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, representing the Parliamentary Assembly of Oddbjørg Newbjørg Stardalfelt, the General Assembly of the Union of 21 November to 21 November and the European Union of 19 November to participate in the Joint Parliamentary Delegation of 19 November to the United Nations, and the European Union of 19 November to attend. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder counties: Liv Marit Moland For West-Agder counties: Sigmund Kroslid For Busherud counties: John-Ragnar Aarset For Hedmark counties: Johnny Hult For Hordaland counties: Rita Tveiten For Nordland counties: May-Anne Brand For Uppland counties: Tove LehreFor Rogaland county: Jan Petter Rasmussen For Westfold counties: Vidar Andersen3. Johnny Hult, Tove Lehre and Vidar Andersen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Kjetil Bjørklund and Per Ove Wide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e112	The President will propose the election of three presidents for Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e117	I propose Finn Martin Vallersnes, Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e122	Finn Martin Vallersnes, Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes, Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are considered unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e145	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e161	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Every day, there are messages about bankruptcy, closures, flagging out, layoffs and cancellations. Signals come from all over the country and apply to all parts of competitive business. Thousands of jobs are lost. We now have the strongest growth in unemployment in over ten years. Since Bondevik became prime minister, there are over 16 000 more registered unemployed. That's an increase of 28 pst. Unfortunately, everything suggests that this trend will continue. An investigation by TBL shows that over 50 pst. by the member companies consider deflagration and yet more assess de-manning. One of the few people who don't seem to be concerned is the Minister of Economic Affairs. His efforts so far have been to minimize and try to debt on everyone else. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with the Minister of Industry that we do not have a crisis in Norwegian industry today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e170	A worrying trend in the labour market, and especially in the export-oriented industry, concerns us all — including the Minister of Industry. But he has also allowed himself to point out that the situation varies considerably from industry to industry, and that in some industries there has been a growth in employment. The government is pursuing an active policy to combat increasing unemployment. I myself have traveled a lot around districts that are affected by the risk of job closure and deflagration, and the review melody was a prayer to us politicians to adopt a budget that allows us to dampen the pressure on interest rates and the crown price, which is the main cause of the problems in the export-oriented part of business. The government has submitted such a tight budget. Now I hope, and it's up to the parties on Stortinget, that the Storting will finally adopt a tight budget. The representative Aksensens party is negotiating on this precisely in these days and in these hours and can make his contribution. I hope so, and that the Workers' Party also sees its responsibility in a situation where we have a minority government. It is also, because wage developments have played a significant role in weakening our competitiveness, initiating and now initiating income policy cooperation with the social partners in order to improve control over high wage developments. We have also provided significant tax relief for business. The investment fee, which alone amounted to NOK 6 billion, has fallen away from 1 October. We have made further efforts to enable companies to allocate resources to research and development, and we are actively fighting forms and bureaucracy to make it easier for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e183	I am pleased that the Prime Minister states that one is concerned about business and that it also applies to the Minister of Industry. But as late as last Saturday, the Minister of Industry of the United Nations said there is no crisis in Norwegian industry. In my view, the first provision for action is that one has an understanding of the situation. When we have a Minister of Industry who has the main task of trying to push under the carpet that we have a competitive business that has a big problem, we also have a problem getting action. I can't see that the tools that the Prime Minister here claims that one has seen work have helped to change the situation. It's gotten worse in the last year. As late as we were in trying to get the Labour Party to a different arrangement in connection with the revised National Budget to bring down the interest and bring down the crown price. That time we were ridiculed, and it was trivialized. I really hope that knowledge of the current crisis in the Norwegian business world will also reach the Minister of Industry's death, and that the Prime Minister will help with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e188	The Minister of Industry has not pushed under the carpet that we have problems in competitive business. You cannot take a sentence or a word from an interview out of context, as the representative Aksensen did now. I have read this whole interview. It is a nuanced interview, and the Minister of Industry also admits that in particular the competitive part of business has problems. The government is pursuing an active policy to combat those problems. These are problems that have built up over a long time. With regard to the Workers' Party's contribution to the revised national budget last spring, I think – with all due respect – that it had not helped anything in particular on the interest rate and on the exchange rate. We had to have a more detailed debate on that in this case. But there were several parts of the alternative budget that could have stimulated the economy in such a way that the pressure had not become any lower. But now it is up to the Storting to adopt a responsible budget, where we would also like to discuss further measures to combat threatening unemployment. We've invited the Workers' Party to do that. And without going into those discussions, we can openly say that we are willing to discuss further actions with the Workers' Party in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e197	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e200	Every day since Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik took over, 50 people in Norway have been informed that they have lost their jobs and have lost their jobs. It would have been great if the government had provided a budget that helped with it. But it says in the budget papers that this is going to continue next year. In fact, 60 people will go into unemployment every day next year, be told that there is no need for them. What does the Government do? What is the hope of these people and all the hundreds of thousands who fear that they will lose their jobs? Well, it is to be able to qualify for the new labour market, gain more competence and feel confident that they are needed in the future labour market. But the government cuts in the arrangements that could have helped them to do so. There are cuts in the skills development programmes, which should help workers to take on-the-job training. You have a tight community economy, which means that high school and primary school for adults are cut. You cut adult education programmes, and you halve the growth of research, which the Prime Minister boasts. My question is, is this the correct answer to all those who are now unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e205	In addition to the measures I have already mentioned, I can also inform you that, as the representative Geske is certainly fully aware, we have strengthened Aetat with 220 annual works in the draft state budget for next year, just to be able to deal with these problems. We have proposed increasing the number of response sites. But as I have already said, we would like to invite – and have done so – the Giske Party to discuss further actions with this as a goal. In our draft budget, we have strengthened the ability of companies to convert through good opportunities for tax-free provisions for research and development. We have removed a number of taxes and taxes that seemed unlucky to business, where, unfortunately, the Workers' Party has not gone as far as we have in such tax reductions. So I certainly believe that the Government is actively fighting for businesses, for business, for increasing unemployment, and we are inviting the Workers' Party to further cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e213	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e216	It would have been a little too simple if a prime minister from the Christian People's Party put his trust in tax policy alone in the field of industrial policy. I am pleased that the Prime Minister recognises that these are problems and I agree that they vary from industry to industry. However, precisely that suggests that a targeted industrial and industrial policy should be pursued, targeting those who have the worst, the furniture industry, shipping, the process industry, and that one should not add to the burden on industry by increasing the costs for employers in terms of leave, by halving the appropriations for SND at a time of capital drought and by abolishing the reimbursement arrangements for seafarers. Does the Prime Minister not see that the government, through the budget, is adding to the burden of an already difficult business?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e223	I can't understand how the representative Arnstad can make it appear that I support tax relief alone as a measure to combat unemployment. I referred to it in an article just before the representative Arnstad went to the pulpit, a series of other measures that we also put in the fight against unemployment. So the representative named Arnstad specific industries. And it's true that some industries are harder off running because they have a clearer export profile than others. But I hope we don't go back to an industrial enterprise policy, with selective support schemes aimed at specific industries – if that's what the Central Party's recipe is. I believe that we must first and foremost pursue a viable industrial policy that enables businesses and industries to cope without selective support schemes. With regard to SND, we have increased the allocation to the SND nationwide scheme, and we have proposed a new loan scheme aimed at business in the districts with an annual framework of NOK 1 billion. It might have cost the Center Party a positive remark about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e235	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e238	A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Finance provided new forecasts for the outlook for the Norwegian economy. Several of the important estimates have been corrected, suggesting that the Ministry of Finance has also come to recognize that it is now becoming cooler in the Norwegian economy. Despite this, the Minister of Finance answers a question about this that the Government has not intended to make any changes to the estimates in relation to the basis on which the government budget is adopted. Does the Prime Minister think it appropriate when the estimates for the entire budget have changed, that a budget should nevertheless be adopted in the Grand Duchy based on the estimates in force at the time of the presentation of the State budget, in view of the fact that we are now receiving, in particular, significant warnings of restrictions in the competitive industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e243	The most important thing for the competitive industry is that we adopt a budget within such a level of responsibility — and in this case tight — frameworks that we dampen the pressure on interest rates and interest rates. I am aware that in this way the Progress Party is a supporter of a completely different economic theory, for which they have very few supporters. I cannot, as Prime Minister, take the chance of the responsibility I bear – and now I am speaking seriously – by blowing these frames and spending more money into the Norwegian economy than we think it has the capacity to, with rising wages, prices, interest rates and crown rates as a result. It can hit over thousands of jobs. This can cause large increases in expenditure to families with children and other households, and as Prime Minister, I will not be responsible for it. But I'm aware that the Progress Party has a different theory about this. In the case of forecasts, we update them regularly, and if it had provided the basis for proposing changes to the state budget, we would bring it right away. We haven't found a basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e248	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e251	The reality is that the Prime Minister is trying to reassure the Storting. The reality is that unemployment is rising dramatically. The last Aetat report shows that it increases by more than 30 pst. for young people aged 25 to 29 years. This means that in order to get them to work, it is necessary to take entirely different measures — targeted actions, especially for young people. It was the previous Bondevik government that removed the guarantee that young people would receive work or education on the grounds that unemployment was then low. It is one of the targeted actions that can now be used to ensure that young people are employed in their labour force. In particular, newly educated young people are out of work, according to the Aetat report. This means that you have to focus on these in particular, and that means that once again you have to give them a guarantee of getting either a study or a job. My challenge to the Prime Minister is this: does he see the concern that statistics clearly show that there are people from 25 years and up to 30 years who have the broken increase in the unemployment curve, and that, therefore, we need to have our own measures, special measures, and not least reintroduce a job guarantee for these young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e256	I share the concern about trends in unemployment in general and in the age group mentioned by the representative Djupedal, in particular. Therefore, labour market measures are also primarily targeted at those areas where we have the most worrying developments. This concerns young people, as has now been mentioned, immigrants and the long-term unemployed, including long-term unemployed social workers. So an applicant wants to target as much as possible labour market measures against those that are the hardest hit. A provision on guarantee I have little faith in itself provides jobs or education. We need to be careful to issue guarantees that can easily become paper regulations. I think it is much more important to pursue both a general economic policy and a labour market policy that gives both young people and others work rather than going on social welfare. That is why we are also concerned with income policy cooperation as part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e263	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e266	The Prime Minister says that the Government proposes to strengthen Aetat with 220 years' worth of work for next year. That is correct in itself, but only after cutting out 276 annual works for the current year. In addition, the Government proposes to increase the number of action sites for the next year. It's also a truth with certain modifications. The activity level is actually lower than the first half of 2002. One thing the Prime Minister does not mention is the proposal for a new law on leave of absence in which the obligation to pay increases from 3 to 20 years. Does the Prime Minister not see that there will be a major impact on business, with employee redundancies, increased levels of hired and temporary labour – despite the limitations of the law – major recruitment difficulties in some industries and not least more bankruptcies, especially in the districts? Does the Prime Minister think that the Government's proposal is a good measure to save jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e277	Aetat is proposed to be strengthened in our budget. The number of sites proposed will be increased. We are in discussion with the Labour Party about the budget these days and are also happy to discuss these items. It's an open invitation. It is only for the Workers' Party now to use this influence if they want to take responsibility. Now, Upbebøen Hansen took a bit of a hard time when he said that the payroll period during the leave is increasing from 3 to 20 years. It's about days of course, we're both aware of that. Today’s scheme means that subsidisation of industries exposed to variable activity levels and a generous permitting legislation may result in too much labour being channelled into sectors with varying activity. We've found some reason to tighten this up, because we see that such a rough system, where the public pays so much, has side effects that are unfortunate. But again, there is an open invitation to the Workers' Party to discuss also such issues that have to do with employment, if the Workers' Party now sees this and will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e284	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e287	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The costs of the very naïve asylum, refugee and immigration policies pursued by the Government are now approaching 5,000 million. kr for the next year’s budget. In recent times it has been revealed that there are things that indicate that quite a lot of people have been given humanitarian residence in Norway by claiming that they have converted from Islamic religion to the Christian, and that this has not been done as genuine believers, but it is claimed that they have converted to stay. Such an abuse of Christianity is monstrous. I assume that the Prime Minister will take the necessary initiatives, so that where conversion to Christianity has been decisive to give residence on a humanitarian basis, the UDI will re-examine matters to make sure that no one has been allowed to stay in Norway by blustering that they are Christians.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e294	It is a provision in our legislation that where there is no basis for being an asylum seeker, there may be strong human reasons that allow you to stay on a so-called humanitarian basis. I think the representative Hagen should be a little careful in his language on these issues. The fact that there are real problems for former Muslims who convert to Christianity should not be underestimated. That there may also have been cases where there has not been a real conversion, of course I cannot exclude. But speaking in such general terms as the representative Hagen here now did, and almost questioning the faith of most Christians who have converted from Islam, I think one in as serious personal questions as this is about, should be a little careful with. Where there must have been some false information in that way, and in that case, abuse, I expect the responsible authorities to consider it seriously. Should they find the basis for reviewing some of these matters again, I also expect them to do so. This is now known under the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and, as an appeal body, the Department of Foreign Affairs. But I'll probably encourage a certain amount of caution with the strong words about such questions, which are about individuals. I may also have reason to believe that many have been serious about their Christian faith, and that many of these, having been baptized, have been active in Christian congregations for many years. Then one should be a little careful with the language.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e305	If the Prime Minister goes back and reads through what I said, he will see that I took the necessary reservations and was very careful. I'm talking about those who might have bluffed. And there I must say I find the Prime Minister's answer very passive. When there has been a great activity also from Christian People's Party politicians to exercise influence on political leadership to reverse the decision of the professional authorities, as the prime minister here speaks of, I had expected a somewhat more humble prime minister, who would at least take an initiative towards the UDI, who is still under the direction of the municipal minister – that is the name that is not – and make sure that the UDI goes through and reveals the possible cases when checking whether those who have been accommodated on a humanitarian basis are still active Christians, or whether it was short-lived. That is the initiative that I think the Prime Minister should make sure that his government took, in order to correct what the previous Bondevik government might have suffered in order to exercise through the political transformation of decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e312	Firstly, when you have appeal cases – formerly the Ministry of Justice, now the Department of Foreign Affairs – it is obvious that you should be able to get your case tried again. There is no general suspicion that some cases are being changed. One has appeals for an assessment of whether there is a basis for conversion. Nor should it be suspected that representatives are involved in matters. Very well known representatives of this house from all parties have done so from time to time. I don't think there's anything wrong with representatives and other politicians getting involved in the fate of individuals. It would be wrong if an unreasonable pressure were exerted or if the decision were to be made on an unsubstantiated basis. With regard to the specific matter that I understand Hagen has in mind, a proper response should be sent to the Storting's Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the twelve questions that have been asked. Of course, whether the UDI can reopen cases where there should have been a possible abuse, we should investigate the possibility of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e319	There will be follow-up questions - Signe Eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e322	I have a follow-up question for the Prime Minister. In Norway, we have an asylum institute that we believe should be an important and proper institute in relation to who will be staying here in the country. But after the last few days' newspaper headlines, it is clear that many people question whether legal certainty and justice are as good as we may have thought. It cannot be that there are acquaintances or other things that allow you to stay in the country – it must be clear. Does the Prime Minister think the trust in our asylum institute is so good? And does he think that a full review is now necessary to restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e329	I agree with the representative Eye that legal certainty and non-discrimination are important here, and we have appeals to the applicants concerned to have their case tried again. It must not be suspected. Nor should it be suspected that individuals are engaged in the cause of others. I fully agree with the representative Eye that acquaintances should not decide such matters. The current Council of State, which is also the Minister of Justice today, and his State Secretary at the time of the decision, have stated that they have not been subjected to any pressure or undue pressure. I think maybe one should listen to those who have decided the matter. Otherwise, these questions are answered to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, I do not think it is right to go further into this matter now. But he didn't get asylum, he got a humanitarian residence. There's someone that mixes these terms up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e338	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e341	Asylum inflows in Norway have increased by 600 pst. since Bondevik I joined in 1997. There are 16 000 asylum seekers in reception. We'll get about. 1 500 new asylum seekers each month. We can't send back more than 500, so it's a big queue, and it's collapsing in the receipts. My question to the Prime Minister is this: what is the human view of the discrimination that is obviously caused by asylum treatment in Norway? And what human view is the basis for allowing such a large influx of asylumants into Norway, so that people must live in uncertainty and under unworthy conditions for several years before we decide to send them out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e347	I understand that the representative, Mr Sandberg, wants a debate on human vision in relation to refugee and asylum policy. Such a debate has, of course, been rejected by the Progress Party with indignation earlier when others have tried to travel it, so I think this was quite surprising. My human vision suggests that we should seek to help as many as possible in a difficult situation, primarily poor and persecuted. That is also what our refugee and asylum policy aims at – persecuted people whose lives or security are at risk should be able to get asylum in Norway. Others may be allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis if there are strong reasons for doing so. The person who decided on the matter now much discussed had his reasons for it when it came to human considerations, but it will be explained to the Control Committee. I do not want unworthy matters in the reception of asylum. The influx is now high, we are taking measures to reduce it. But many live in unworthy conditions in other countries. I hope the representative Sandberg will remedy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e352	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e355	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The Prime Minister's party is struggling with miserable polls, and the last one today gives the Christian People's Party an uproar of less than 6 pst. Now one should not despair of one poor measure, nor should one be guided by poor polls if one has an important political project. But when you get a lot of bad measurements, it can be an expression that the voters are disappointed and do not trust the policy that the Government is pursuing, and as such, in the minds of the Prime Minister. Land and beach around light the despair of people who experience cutbacks in care services and in the school sector. I have some randomly chosen examples here, from the municipality of Evenes, which has to cut in ramti metal, from the municipality of Tysfjord, where one discusses joining classes, from the municipality of Bergen, where one of the parents says that it is in particular the weakest students it goes over. [[The President clubs.]] Can the Prime Minister understand that the voters are disappointed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e360	The President allows himself to recall that the time-frame assumes that the question can also be asked within the time-frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e363	It was a long introduction to polls before a final question came up. Now SV also has experience with poor polls, so I think maybe the representative Halvorsen is wise enough to lie a little lower in using it, because these measurements can swing, both for one and the other. Now the last measurements have not been good for the Christian People's Party, but they have actually been something better than one example the Halvorsen representative found it opportunistic to mention. But we'll see. It is quite right, as the representative Kristin Halvorsen says, that we cannot allow the polls to govern our policy. I hope that neither is what SV is looking for. It is also an interesting feature that the two parties that currently have the best measurements in relation to the last election result are the two parties that have never had government responsibility – the two outermost parties Progress Party and SV. It might say something. It may say that it costs to take responsibility, it costs to take responsibility in a demanding economic situation where we also need a tight economic policy to secure jobs and to secure the economy of people. Nothing would be better for me than to say that there's going to be a lot more money for schools, and there's going to be a lot more money for one and the other, with which some parties in the Storting stand out. I cannot take responsibility for that, even if it costs, because I am concerned that the country should have a good economy in terms of jobs and people's economy. I've seen something on SV's alternative budget. There are a lot of tax increases that will also have an unfortunate impact on business — the least-needed business now, when it comes to reducing vulnerable jobs. And it's a deal with the defence budget, where the SV always finds a lot of resources, for which I can't take responsibility in terms of our foreign and security policy. So I can unfortunately not follow the SV's recipe. That someone is disappointed because the local economy is desperate – yes, I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e368	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is studying the SV's alternative state budget, because then he will also see that the proposals we are promoting, where a systematic rate of well-being and education is within the government's own framework, so that the allegations of overburden do not affect us. What I want from the Prime Minister are some comments in relation to all the enquiries that the Prime Minister probably receives – at least I get them – from parents, teachers and students around the school who now experience that their school offerings are being cut dramatically. I myself have been sitting at the parent's meeting and I know the rascal when we are told that there might be some teaching positions at the school where my own kids go. This is contrary to the promises made by the Prime Minister himself in the election campaign, and it is not surprising that parents, students and teachers expect an increase, a strengthening, an improvement in the school sector and not the opposite. Is it so that the Prime Minister settles that this is the situation around the country's classroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e373	No, the Prime Minister doesn't settle for that. As is well known, the school sector is primarily a municipal responsibility, but it is, among other things, related. together with government transfers within the income system. And we should like to see that they could have been bigger. They grow from year to year. They also increase significantly on next year's government budget. But we have to realize that over several years, hardly any transfers from the state to the local government sector have increased enough to keep track of the expenditure profile in the local government sector and the increase in tasks, which sometimes increases more than income transfers. And that's a problem. It has in some municipalities, for example: gone beyond the school sector. Now, in order to be true in this picture, one should also draw attention to the fact that Norway is actually among the countries that spend the most money in school per year. student. That shows the statistics. And that's what's in the picture. But that some municipalities now have problems in the school sector, I admit. There are negotiations in the Grand Duchy these days, including on the local economy. We are also willing to discuss this item.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e384	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e387	It is especially important to hear a Prime Minister repeatedly put his trust in the opposition in order to implement his own policy, but leave it alone. The situation in Kommune-Norge is quite dramatic, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister acknowledges it. This is due to a combination of many things, but it is primarily because the transfers from the state are defective in relation to the tasks the municipalities are set to solve. This, of course, pains all the local politicians of the various parties, because it is not possible to meet the expectations and natural desires of the people in the schools, kindergartens and care sectors. 80 pst. the municipalities of the country must cut the budgets until next year. And on top of that, last day the Finance Committee received a letter from Finance Minister Foss saying that only in this year's budget, the tax revenue is one billion dollars less than expected. So on top of all the other increases, you get $1 billion less, as the government says it's not going to do anything. In addition, this billion in smaller revenues must cover the municipalities with their own operating budget. This could not be in line with Mr Bondevik's wish. This billion we can put in the aged budget. Is that what he wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e396	The new age of the 2002 state budget will be discussed here in Stortinget just before Christmas, so we can come back to that. It is true that the tax intake for 2002 now looks a little less than what we had forecast when we presented the national budget, but it still seems to be slightly higher than the one that helped to deal with the government budget last autumn, i.e. the state budget for the year we are talking about, 2002. I do not trust the opposition in fulfilling its own wishes, but I actually trust that at least someone in the opposition, and hopefully enough, sees its responsibility for adopting a responsible budget that can secure the country's economy, strengthen the basis for the jobs and dampen the pressure on interest rates. But we can't do it the way SV has recommended, with a lot of taxes and taxes that will also have a negative impact on businesses, and with a round of the defence budget that, fortunately, in the Stortinget, only SV stands for. SV stays within the budgetary framework we have proposed, but there are a few other parties in Stortinget that do not, and therefore we cannot follow their recipe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e407	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e411	The Minister of Education of the Bondevik Government has stated that the school has enough money. The Labour Party totally disagrees with us when we look at the situation that schools experience around the country, and how many here have shown to the recordings we have received in relation to the closure of schools, cut material purchases, cut teacher positions, etc. The working party wants to bet on the public common school, where 98 pst. by our children go. The government has chosen to cut back on public schools, both in direct appropriations and in the municipal economy. Even though it's just 2 pst. Of our children who attend private schools, the Bondevik government, despite the budgetary situation, has found room for a strong increase in private schools of over 30 p.m., i.e. More than 400 million. kr. Why does the Government choose to invest only in a small minority of children in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e418	Of course we don't. The co-operation administration is for a strong and good public school. It depends partly on direct government appropriations from the Ministry of Education's budget and partly on the local economy. A good number of municipalities are struggling. We recognize that, and we want to help reduce that problem. However, one should not forget that in the public school in Norway we have larger appropriations per year. students than almost any other country in the world. So one should not paint a black image when the situation and the statistics are like that. But that there are problems in a good many places, we're familiar with. Then it's also completely wrong to present it as if we're now betting something huge in private schools. The draft budget for private schools is governed by the law. And we have to follow the law. Several new schools have been approved since the last time, and the law says that they will receive their payments. I have always wondered about the Labour Party's attitude towards private schools. It's a supplement, and, as the representative Bjørnstad says, very modest, so why does the Workers' Party want so little support for the private schools that only people with good advice can send their children there?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e429	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e432	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. It is going to be a follow-up to the theme that has just been discussed, because I think it is a very important topic. We can't stand the fact that there are now parents who every day experience that the school offer to their kids is deteriorating. There are kids who have to switch schools, classes are merged and filled up to the maximum size, cross-country schools are laid down, and as many as 2,500 teaching positions can now disappear in school in the year to come. This is a dramatic situation. I'm so glad that the Prime Minister says this is the Government's concern, but the problem is that the Government doesn't do anything about it. And my question to the Prime Minister is: Can't the Government at least look at the pension reserves, which are actually a provision for funds, and lift this out of a previously difficult local economy, so that you can rectify some of the situation the municipalities are in?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e441	Let me inform the representative of Enoxsen that we have actually done something about that. The Ministry of Local Affairs has sent out to the municipalities about accounting rules with regard to the provision of KLP, where municipalities are allowed to do so over several years, so that the pressured economic situation caused by the increased demands of KLP, i.e. the pension fund for municipalities, is reduced. So here, the representative asks Enoch about something that we have already taken in relation to. If Mr Enoxen believes that it should be lifted entirely out of the municipal accounts, then the accounting principle is applied to having an insurance fund, which will be quite perceptive and completely new, and which in the event of the consequences of which it is necessary to assess, in the case of policy holders other than the municipalities. None of us underestimates that many municipalities have significant financial problems. I think most of us have such close contact with the life that we know it. We know that in some cases it also goes out of school, among other things. because we have had to invest considerable resources into some earmarked schemes, not least the nursery sector, which reduces the free resources to be used for school. Those who have participated in this in Stortinget can't underestimate it. But despite that, we are in the process of reviewing the municipal economy. We have it continuously for assessment. We also have it in budgetary negotiations in Stortinget and are open to discussing such issues, but we also need to maintain that Norwegian school on resource access is one of the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e448	First to the pension bill. It is true that the government has done something about the accounting rules, but only one thing is achieved, and that is to decorate the result for the next year and let the municipalities push it ahead. Payments will take place until next year regardless of changes made by the Government in the accounting rules, and there are payments in dollars and cents that matter to the municipalities, not how to book this. And of course, it's true that we spend a lot of money at school, but it has its reasons. A significant reason for this is, among other things: that we have a scattered housing pattern with many small schools with few students in each class. If the Prime Minister wants to keep that housing pattern, it will cost money. We have to admit that, and it will cost more money than what you spend in school in other countries. But some of the main problem in relation to the current situation in municipalities is that the government is adding up to a growth in private consumption that is seven times higher than growth in public consumption. The government can do something about that. The Prime Minister considers it appropriate to provide tax relief and strong growth in private consumption in a situation where, among other things, the school. has to pay the price for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e455	I believe the representative of Enoxsen, who has also been the Council of State, knows that the composition of so-called private consumption, among other things. relate to the number of people out of work. It is largely linked to wage-fixing, and therefore there are also some positive elements behind the so-called strong rise in private consumption. I am aware that the Centre Party, in terms of public consumption, has gradually had a different view from that of the majority of the population in extracting returns from the Petroleum Fund. As far as I can see, the Centre Party has submitted a proposal that says in clear text that much more can be used from the Petroleum Fund for some purposes. It is the Central Party and the Advance Party that stand for it. I'll get a record of that. I can't take responsibility for that, because I feel pretty sure that it would trigger a price and interest rate carousel that would cost both the municipalities, the school sector and all the other areas in which Enoxen is engaged, much, much more than the Senterpartie will grant more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e460	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e463	It is difficult to take the Prime Minister's concern about the school sector and the everyday life of people or else seriously when we know that he is renting a government that has deliberately prioritised tax relief for people with incomes well over 300,000 kroner rather than providing the municipalities with more money. That's what makes messages not only about the reduction of 2,500 years' work in the school, but also about cutting in basic services such as the daily supply of psychiatry, the closure of elderly centres, and even the closure of new hospitals. Now there are several parties here in the Stortinget, the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, who are in charge of an escalating plan over several years to secure the municipalities' better finances, so that they can better secure people's daily lives. Will the Prime Minister take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e468	As far as the latter is concerned, I can answer that, as the representative Kleppa knows very well, there is a consultation arrangement between the Government and the Municipal Councils on the finances of the municipal sector in the years to come. There's probably also this question coming up. We will deal with this in responsible discussions with the Municipal Councils. The representative, Kleppa, says that she does not take my concern seriously. I must say it was a stiff piece. I think I myself can assess my own concern or lack of such best, and it is present. I travel enough around the country to take it over me. But I can't follow the Central Party's recipe that would really mean spending a lot more money on public budgets, with price and interest rate increases as a probable result. It would look good to the municipalities, where 1 pst. interest rate increase means 800 million. kr more in expenditure, a lot of enterprises that are being turned over, a lot of households' economy that gets harder. I don't want to be in on that. In terms of tax relief, they have gone very much to businesses and businesses and also to low pay by increasing minimum deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e477	Reidar Sandal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e481	The spokesperson in Ålesund says to a newspaper today that he has never had such difficulties in his municipality that he will receive next year. Too little money for the municipalities makes those who are weak and most difficult to silence become the strongest frame. Elves in need of special assistance in training and special training, and older people in municipalities who will receive less and poorer care in the coming year. The Prime Minister mentioned earlier in this spontaneous Question Time that he cannot take responsibility for adverse and negative developments. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Can the Prime Minister take responsibility for this negative development for many young people and older people in our municipalities of the year to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e488	I have also heard both the said rapporteur from Ålesund – he is from my own constituency – and others make such worrying statements. There's also some of the background for what I've said earlier in this spontaneous questioning session. It must also be said in the name of justice that this is not a completely new kind of statement. Even when the representative Sandal was in office, there were many very concerned rapporteurs, including those from the Labour Party, who said similar things. It's not to defend what's happening today, but it might be useful sometimes to refresh your memory a little bit. It was even about a rebellion in the time of the workers' party government. That is why we will also be working with the local economy in the future, whether it is in budgetary negotiations in Stortinget or it is for the coming years. I stand upright on the profile of this budget – a strong increase in support for families with children, the strongest effort to combat poverty in Norway that we have ever had, a clear health profile in the budget, with billions of increases, and a strong environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e497	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e500	If the Prime Minister does not want to take the rapporteurs' concerns seriously, perhaps he should take their parents' concerns seriously. Many parents are now told that all adapted education in primary school will be gone. Now it's like when Bondevik and I went to school: one teacher, one class – everyone should learn the exact same thing at once. Then we know that there are a lot of students who don't get the training they need. It is a concern that I miss that the Prime Minister takes seriously inwards. It's not enough to juggle numbers here and there and say that now there's so much there and so much there, and we can't afford it. This is a value question. Do we not appreciate the children so much that we believe that training is more important than giving tax relief to the crowd sitting here and to all the millionaires in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e505	The President has some doubts as to which ‘thing’ it was intended to do, but leaves it to the Prime Minister to interpret the question. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e508	I am not going to use such an irreverent expression about the representative Andersen and others that she herself has now done. A repeated claim that the Prime Minister does not take the rapporteurs' concerns seriously is not going to be more correct if the representative Andersen now repeats it. I have said and asked to be believed that we take that concern seriously. Then I ask you to stop repeating a false claim. I also take the parents' concerns seriously. In fact, over the past few weeks, I've been visiting schools in Municipality-Norway, and I know that the school is completely different from when the two of us went to it. It's pretty much the end of this with one teacher, one class – although I also think the children need a group and a safe frame around them. There are much more flexible arrangements, there are more teachers in school than in our time, and there is more exciting teaching and more organized teaching, including for those who need it. I think that's still going to be the situation. In some municipalities they also have problems with some of these offers. We're actually taking that seriously, and our economic policy is aimed at also securing the finances of municipalities, not giving them increased interest expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e517	The President will note that it is certainly an advantage if everyone keeps track of their own concerns at all times, then you wouldn't have to worry about the concerns of others. Per Sandberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e522	I agree with the Prime Minister that you should be a little careful about drawing a bastant image of the local economy, because there are enough big differences going on. I also think it is interesting that the Prime Minister points to the budgetary negotiations that are taking place in Stortinget now, and that the local economy should also be part of it, when we know that the Christian People's Party has a written agreement with the Progress Party here in the House regarding the municipal economy for 2003. For the local economy, the debt is probably a bigger problem than the income, so I think we have a cost problem instead of a income problem. It is also interesting to challenge the Prime Minister when he says that the Government has constantly assessed the municipal economy: Could it have been possible to take an assessment of the debt associated with state reform by municipalities over the last decades, after the state has not fully financed the reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e529	I think the representative Sandberg is right that the debt that many municipalities have today is a huge problem for them, because of course it requires a lot of refunds. That's why it's so important to pursue a policy that doesn't increase this debt burden, which will happen if we pursue an economic policy that leads to an increase in interest rates. For each percentage increase in interest rate we might have to get, it'll cost the municipal sector 800 million. kr. And with already great debt burden, it's unfortunate. That is what we are talking about, among other things. also seeks to remind the Progress Party that there is no need to pursue an economic policy that will increase this debt problem. As far as the local economy is concerned, we are aware of the agreements we have concluded and are going to comply with them. With regard to the President's remark about concern, I am absolutely concerned about the local economy, but I am now also choosing to see the bright aspects, both in life and in the budget. There are a lot of bright sides to the proposal for the government budget for next year that I might have hoped some were inside, instead of drawing a whole black picture that becomes completely misleading.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e536	It was not the president's intention to encourage an increase in the volume of concern. That's big enough. The last main questions in the oral question procedure are asked by Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e541	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has said today that he is concerned about the situation on the labour market, but despite that, we have not seen so many concrete measures to remedy it. A short time ago, Prime Minister Jordan visited a toothbrush factory at Flisa, how many now lose their jobs because large parts of the production are being moved out of the country. It was a visit that made expectations. Many of those who lose their jobs have worked a lot of their adult lives there. It is a region with a very one-sided nutritional basis, which means that it is difficult to get other jobs, and that it is therefore necessary to be prepared to retrain to have the chance to get into another job. But then they have to have an economic basis to do it. The situation in the Solør region and some other regions right now is incredibly critical and difficult. One of the wishes of those who have resigned is that you can keep your daily allowance while re-schooling to another job. It is a requirement and a wish that the Workers' Party supports, because the region is in such a special situation. Does the Prime Minister support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e549	It is true that I was visiting the Solør region, and it also gave me an interesting insight into both local economy and a region that is quite exposed in terms of jobs. Let me first say that what was the review melody when I met representatives of the companies in the Solør region was: Please, have a budget adopted that dampens the pressure on interest rates and interest rates, because that is now our main problem! That was actually the message. It has been proposed by the Government, and we have invited the Labour Party to participate in and adopt a budget within these responsible frameworks, but with the intention of redispating within them. When it came to the relationship between day money and education, it's right that it was brought up with me. I said, as it was true, that this matter was being dealt with in the department – that is to say, we should consider it. That assessment has now been carried out, and they have come to the conclusion that the proposal on which this was specifically addressed, with a combination of daily allowances and training as far as this was concerned, is incompatible with the legislation adopted. And they have had to notify the applicants. So the combination that this was applied for, according to the Department, is not possible in today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e558	Olof Palme once said that politics is too wild. I believe that this is also about wanting. In fact, in other parts of the country that have been in similar situations, how many have lost the job at once and where there is such a one-sided basis of nutrition, one, if one has shown the will to do it, has also been able to go in and do this kind of thing. For me, it is unknown that this should be linked to very long courses for the majority of those who have been terminated. No, that's not what this is about. For many of them, it's not about long courses, but they need something to get into another job. In that case, the option is for many of them the social office, and that means they don't get into any other work. I will appeal as strongly as I can to the Prime Minister to go through this matter again. We have managed to put in place specific measures for the yard industry, which have been necessary in certain situations. We also need to be able to do special things about the interior, when necessary. The Prime Minister has created some expectations that he does not now meet, and I hope that he will assess the matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e567	There is no reason to say, based on what I said when I was in Solør, that I have created expectations that are not met. What I said was that the matter was being dealt with in the department and that it should be assessed on that basis. It's done. And I expect that Sylvia Brustad, who has been the Council of State himself, will also acknowledge that a Prime Minister cannot set a law aside when the responsible department says that this cannot be reconciled with today's legislation. A prime minister can't just say with a pen stroke that we don't care about that. Because I assume that this legislation has been developed after careful assessment. I don't know how long all these current educations are, so I don't want to generally characterize them as very long educations. But I cannot handle such matters at the Prime Minister's office or above the Spokesman's sun. As I have been informed by the Ministry – and it is a prime minister entirely dependent on – they have found that the application was not compatible with the legislation on daily allowances. I have to deal with that. I would like to ask the Council to review it, but I understand that they have assessed it quite carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e574	There will be follow-up questions – Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e577	We also get many messages about corner stone farms along the coast that are struggling. The bankruptcies in the Ant fishing industry in the North and Sunnmørsfisk on Sunnmøre recently are examples of the situation. Only in North Norway have at least 25 fishing holdings been forced to give up to date this year. What kind of plan does the Prime Minister have for these communities and for those who lose their jobs in such one-sided fishing areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e582	Indeed, the fisheries sector is among the growing industries in Norway, and there has been an incredibly positive coastal activity in recent years for increased employment in the fisheries sector and not least in the fishing industry. They're also very export dependent. A lot of these products go out of the country, as they are known, happily, and they are now also affected by problems for our export industries, which are linked to the high dollar price, which is again linked to the high interest rate. So I repeat -- even if someone thinks I'm making it the boring thing, but I do it because it's so important -- that the most important thing we can do to them now is to pursue an economic policy that alleviates these problems with the dollar rate and interest rate. That is what the Government has put forward, and we hope that it will also be the result of the examination of the budget in Stortinget. Our Minister for Fisheries is in constant contact with the industry and assesses measures that can remedy the situation. But going in with selective industry support I don't think it's right, either to this or to other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e589	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e592	If the legislation to combine unemployment benefits and the necessary skills to get a job left stands in the way of sensible and sensible solutions that will work, I find it very strange that the Prime Minister and the Government do not seem to have the ability and willingness to change such legislation. So there must be something else that's behind when you don't want to do this. I could imagine asking the Prime Minister for that, because it can't be wrong to give people who have lost their jobs and who need some skills, help to get back to work. So what's wrong with that? And if the Prime Minister agrees that there is nothing wrong with it – it has been done elsewhere in the country – yes, is it that this should only be allowed to happen elsewhere in the country, and not in the country? Because that's actually the impression we're left with, that the Prime Minister believes more in the rules than in the popular sense and what makes sense, and that this has been possible somewhere in the country, but when it happens in the interior, it's completely impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e597	I then get the following information: The Minister of Labour and Administration has stated that he cannot advise the implementation of the experiment with regard to the point of giving the opportunity to retain the daily allowance during education, because it would be contrary to the purpose of the day-to-day allowance under unemployment, which is, of course, a guarantee of unemployment income. The daily allowance shall not finance regular education. In this case, it would be an exception to the central conditions for entitlement to the daily allowance. A prime minister has to deal with that. It is not certain that the legislation is contrary to national law. One must not assume that it is either folklore or regulation. I expect the representative, Andersen, to agree that a Prime Minister cannot stand on the platform and just put a line over a well-designed and thought-out code. Whether this has been done elsewhere, in case I have to check in the department. The Government is committed to contributing to measures in the Solør and Glamdal region. The region has migration status. In total, the state will contribute $30 million. SEK in conversion funds in the region until 2003. Another 5 million has been set. available in 2002 to Våler and Kongsvinger. During a 10-year period, this region will have received 50 million. kr in state conversion funds. I just mention this to show that we are concerned about the precarious situation in the Solør region – and do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e606	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e612	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Thore A. Nistad. Question 21, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for the Environment, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 22, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for the Environment, will be addressed by the representative of Mette Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e630	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘For three years, NISO and Norwegian Public Aid have been running the anti-racism campaign ‘Gi Racism Red Card’. This has been an important effort to overcome racist sentiments related to sport. The campaign has been successful, and now it is to be expanded. The recent events on international football arenas, where colored players have been harassed, show that this is an important work. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this work continues and to ensure the continued operation of the campaign?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e639	The "Gi Racism Red Card" project is a three-year project of which the Ministry of Culture and the Church has contributed to funding. In addition, the project has received funds from Health and Rehabilitation. Norwegian People's Aid and NISO are driving the project. The project period ends at the end of the year. I am aware that the campaign has not cleared the funding after the project period expires. The "Gi Racism Red Card" project is an example of visible stanchive work and has managed to mobilise athletes to demonstrate their stand against racism in concrete terms. The project has developed simple materials that show their work. In the event of major sporting events, practitioners show red cards as common marks against racism. The final report of the project will be of importance for further work. The Ministry has agreed to meet with the project management. We want to discuss the experiences and results of the project period and consider possible ways to push the campaign forward. The Ministry has also been in contact with the Norwegian Football Association to find a solution to this problem. The football team is positive about taking a greater responsibility, but wants anti-racism work to be coordinated with the integration work before sport. This vision I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e650	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is very positive that a meeting between the ministry and those behind this anti-racism campaign has been initiated. It may be young people, first and foremost, that this campaign can reach, but other generations also have sportsmen as important role models, and what they mark can mean a lot in the attitude-creating work. When it's like all of these sportsmen are willing to stand up, use their name, use their position to highlight attitudes in such an important work, we other people should do everything we can to build up under it. That's why it's good to have a meeting, but I should like to have some clearer signals from the Minister of Culture that you actually want to get hold of this, and that somehow you make sure that campaign goes on, because there are an incredible number of people who are being reached, with relatively small funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e659	This has taken us a long time before the questioner asked the question, because we know that the three-year period that expires should be considered. We've invited you to a meeting. We've had contact with the Football Federation. We want to ensure that the idea behind the measure is passed on. But going out and giving a conclusion before we've seen the final report, or before we've had the meeting, will actually be irresponsible by me. But I can assure you that we see the positive in the work that has been done, and we will work to ensure that the intention in the work against racism should also be carried on in the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e664	I think it's getting clearer and clearer that the idea behind the project is going to continue. I interpret it as that we somehow get a campaign like that in the future as well. Of course, you have to discuss the form of organisation and where the money will come from, but the most important thing is that this continues. It's not just by showing the red cards that sportsmen engage in anti-racist attitude. Sport itself is really a massively mind-building work, also in relation to racism and that kind of attitude, because you meet, you play together, you play together. The football club has over 20 different nationalities playing on the same team. They don't do anti-racist work, they do football, but the effect is the same. You get respect and attitude towards each other as equivalent, and you learn to work together and to know each other. So I really hope that action is put behind the words, and that not only the idea, but the whole project, goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e671	We want to take concrete responsibility by continuing our efforts. Whether this project is going to go further or whether the work might be done in an even better way – what do I know? We're going to talk to the parties about that. The important thing is that the work against racism is carried on in some way. The representative, Geske called Vålerenga, who has a very broad work. This work has been carried out by the entire Football Association over the responsibility for it. So now it's not only Vålerenga who runs it, but also many other football clubs have, among other things. various events where they focus on the work against racism in connection with training, football matches, etc. So it's a flourishing work that's going to drive children and young people, and I'm absolutely sure that we all want the intention behind that campaign to go on in one way or another. But I don't want to draw the conclusion that we're going to do it just like they did today. Maybe we even find new and better ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e681	‘The Consumer Report reports that the new rights adopted in the Consumer Purchases Act are completely unknown to many. Special employees in shops are unaware of the new rules on claims, damages and claims for repair. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the law becomes effective and not just remains a collection of unknown provisions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e688	An important purpose of the new Consumer Purchases Act is to strengthen the position of consumers in particular with regard to the rules applicable to the breach of the seller’s contract. The survey from the Consumer Report shows that sellers who are contacted here in connection with the study have a lack of knowledge about the new Consumer Purchases Act. To the extent that this is representative of the seller’s side and leads to misinformed consumers, it is very regrettable. In order to contribute to good knowledge of the Consumer Purchases Act, the Ministry of Justice on its Internet pages has published information on the most central provisions of the Act. Representatives from the Ministry of Justice also gave talks on the new law. Detailed information on the law can also be found on the Internet pages of the Consumer Council. In addition, the Consumer Council has informed about the law through the Consumer Report. Although both the Ministry of Justice and the Consumer Council have actively gone out with information, it may seem that the general knowledge of the law is not yet good enough. This is partly due to the fact that the law has only been in force for a few months. With regard specifically to sellers’ knowledge of the law, I would like to stress that anyone engaged in business has a separate responsibility to interfere with the rules governing that type of business. For traders engaged in sales activities aimed at consumers, the Consumer Purchases Act is central. Therefore, there is reason to expect sellers to have consistently better knowledge of the law than the Consumer report has revealed. However, I am aware that the main trade and service industry organisation has informed about the new law through courses, newsletters, membership meetings and its Internet pages. I am also aware that the Consumer Council uses its local offices to disseminate knowledge about the new Consumer Purchases Act, also with a view to being a member of the local business community. In this connection, I mention that the Sunnmørspost in a notice dated 1 November provided information that the Consumer Council in More and Romesdal would organise a daily seminar on the Consumer Purchases Act in cooperation with the Ålesund Centre Association, where all employees in the trade in goods were invited to obtain useful knowledge of the new law. I think it is positive that such measures are being implemented. If a lack of knowledge of the law would prove to be a continuing problem, and not just a problem related to the fact that the law is new, I would consider addressing the matter with the Trade and Service Industry Headquarters Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e701	I think it is very important and crucial that we take the initiative that is signalled at the end of the Council's response. I would also like to thank you for your answer. This law must not be sat down, as the old Consumer Purchases Act was given. Over a number of years, there was a great distance between what both the seller and the buyer knew about the rights they had, and the rights that were actually in the old legislation. We have now filled in new, good rights for consumers both in relation to the item of compensation, in relation to the right to cancel the purchase, in relation to questions about the right to exchange in the event of a defect, and not to forget about the warranty deadlines. Here, in fact, I believe that the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice must take the initiative in addition to what is now said about lectures and Internet pages. A campaign is needed in relation to the new rights that consumers have been granted, which are reaching much wider than the trade level association in Ålesund and some other more restricted forums do. My question is: Will the Minister of Justice take initiatives on such broad information measures concerning the new law?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e710	In this case, it's because there's a new law, so that the public, i.e. The Ministry of Justice and the Consumer Council have already informed about this law to a greater extent than is usual when new laws are adopted. In addition, the seller has his own responsibility, to which I have referred, and I have given examples of this. It's also the case that the law, for example. are available free of charge on the Internet pages of Law Data. The general question is, what can you do to reinforce it? I have said in my reply that I will follow developments. I believe that, in particular, the main trade and service industry organisation, through the measures they have already taken, will be an important co-player. I want to keep a close eye on the matter and will of course go into what I have said in my first answer, if I feel that it is necessary. I share the representative's view that this law should become known, but it requires cooperation between all parties that have a responsibility and an interest in it becoming known.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e719	As far as this law is concerned, it should work in a market where we are constantly confronted with tougher marketing – large “boards” about all the good offers and all the excellence, but never informed about the rights you have when it goes wrong. That is why I believe that the Ministry of Justice, and to the extent that political leadership, should take the initiative for a much wider campaign around this. And a tip: Take the initiative to assess whether the professional organisations should now introduce a kind of information note for the goods sold – above a value of e.g. 5000 kroner – where you are informed in detail about the rights you have, as you are charged with a number of other types of purchases. Because there's a reason to take it seriously. We know, among other things: that the Consumer Purchases Directive adopted by the EU, which we are obliged to do and which forms part of the background to this law, imposes on national authorities the obligation to provide information on this type of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e724	The last one is completely correct. It imposes on national authorities the obligation to provide information. This is why national authorities have gone further in this law than is customary in laws. We feel that this responsibility is committed, as it is in the directive to which it refers. Now enough the representative and I share the opinion that there may be limits to how much public can do. One actually has a responsibility with others – with sellers and professional organisations. I like to take good ideas on the way, but they get to be good ideas. What it would prove to be necessary here, I will discuss in an appropriate way with the professional organisations if, when I follow the case further, I feel that what the representative is dealing with is the situation. I share the main point of his concern, namely that the law should become known. I also share the representative's concern that it requires cooperation and efforts by several. That is why I also gave the conclusion that I made in my main answer to the question that was raised to me by the representative Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e734	‘The Executive Director of Health Nord must implement budget cuts of 521 million. DKK over a 2-year period to adjust the budgetary framework. The governance papers of the company’s meeting on 5 November indicate that emergency surgery and the supply of food at local hospitals need to be reviewed in order to resolve the adjustment problem. Will the Council of State accept that health care businesses close surgical emergency preparedness and food supply at local hospitals as a measure to adapt the budget framework?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e741	Like the other regional health companies, Health Nord has a need for adaptation. The regional health enterprise has estimated this to be 521 million. kr. Health Nord wants to spend two years adapting to this. It is in line with what I, the owner, have signaled in the 2003 draft state budget. In order to cope with such great adaptation, it is necessary to look at all aspects of the organisation. The representative Hansen put this in context with an investigation work Health Nord has started in view of the future food supply and structure of emergency preparedness. As early as August, the board of Health Nord decided that this investigation should be launched. In this, there is a thought that the offer can be better organised than today, both professionally and economically. I consider that health Nord, through the ongoing investigation work, is following up national policies in a good way. Both recruitment and professional considerations suggest that regular analysis of offers should be carried out. In addition, through the launch of the Emergency Medical Preparedness Notice, Stortingen has joined a review of the current organisation of these services, also taking into account whether human and financial resources are being used in a reasonable way. In line with the intention of the hospital reform, regional health businesses are responsible for ensuring, within their budgetary framework, the best possible health provision for the population in each health region. Several regional health businesses have launched comprehensive processes to identify how business structure and service provision should look in the future. Many different proposals have emerged in this work. The National Council for Prenatal Care assists in this work on issues related to the organisation of the supply of food when desired. I would like to stress that regional health establishments are to organise their supply within the professional guidelines given and the decisions taken by the Stortinget and the national authorities. This means, among other things: that there should still be a decentralised food supply in Norway and that the professional requirements for birth control institutions apply. I would also like to remind you that the Health Business Act requires that matters of major importance, or of principle, be adopted by the Enterprise Meeting of the Regional Health Agency. The statutes of regional undertakings make this concrete, inter alia, to: to be substantial changes in the service provision. For the sake of order, the business meeting of regional health companies is the same as the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e754	As regards the content of a local hospital and the definition of what a local hospital is, there may be scope for different interpretations. My assessment is, and I think it's true for most people who are involved in health policy, that a local hospital contains acute surgery, emergency medical care and a food supply. This is the core activity of a local hospital. If one of these parts falls away, there's reason to ask if we still have a local hospital. Then there is the supplementary question: if you choose to remove the emergency surgery or the supply of food, will the minister consider it such a significant change in the structure, of the contents of a hospital, that it has to be decided in a business meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e761	Let me take the legal angle of the answer first, and then the political angle. Legally, the Health Business Act and the preparatory work there referred to hospital closure as an example of a matter of particular importance in principle, which must be discussed in a business meeting. Politically, I would like to say that if regional health businesses are making decisions or making decisions that are clearly contrary to decisions in the Storting or to explicit national guidelines, I will not, for my part, hesitate to intervene, through the authority conferred on me by the law. But from there to say that any change in emergency preparedness or food supply will be contrary to national guidelines, which is a little too bad. This must be due to concrete judgement, because the increasing specialisation in medicine and technological development makes it increasingly resource-intensive to maintain a full surgical emergency response anywhere. Patients will primarily benefit from a high level of quality. They will also be served with closeness. And that balance has to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e772	I agree with the Minister of Health that there are different models in the context of surgical emergency preparedness and medical emergency preparedness. But my question was, if you put down the surgical emergency response altogether, or if you take away the supply of food, is there such a significant change that should be decided in a business meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e777	Based on the answer I have given on the balances that need to be made, it is not possible to give an entirely general and fundamental answer to that question. This must be due to a specific assessment in the individual case. I can see possible examples that such closure will be a matter of principle and importance, and will require such treatment. But I can also see that there may be simple adjustments that do not have such an impact. So it must be based on concrete political judgement on the part of the Minister of Health and the Government, of course on the basis of the decisions taken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e785	I have a question for our Minister of Health: ‘Despite the fact that the snoring clinic in Fredrikstad can treat 20 patients with snoring sickness daily and that there are long waiting lists for treatment, the Riksstrøgdeverket sends patients to Denmark. Although it may be pointed out to many articles and more doctorates that the treatment method used has good and long-lasting effects, many doctors do not want to refer to the clinic. What can the Council of State contribute to rectifying the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e794	The snorkeling clinic in Fredrikstad is a private company run by two dentists who also carry on regular dental activities. The treatment consists of adjusting the patient to a so-called bite skin, which is to be used at night to keep the jaw forward and thus remove the snorkeling. According to the Social and Health Directorate, a significant proportion of patients with snoring problems have sleep disorders in the form of breathing stops during periods. This is a serious health problem, leading to high blood pressure, disturbances in the heart rate and mild daytime sleepiness. It is therefore necessary to investigate patients with snoring problems with sleep records prior to any treatment. The reason for long waiting lists for this group of patients is due to a lack of capacity for the necessary sleep investigation. Sleep disorders themselves do not improve even if snoring stops after surgery or treatment with bitten skin. The use of bitten skin is a low-prevalence treatment method in Norway and discussed among ear-nose-neck doctors. This probably leads again to many doctors not referring patients to the Snorkeling Clinic. I therefore see that there is a need for a professional review of this treatment method, and I would like to ask the Social and Health Directorate to clarify this. I will then come back to the matter in my reply letter to the Snorkeling Clinic, from which I have recently received an enquiry. The representative Hedstrom is inside the patient bridge to the rest of the world, which was established as a result of an additional allocation in the autumn of 2000. The aim is precisely to complement the domestic public offer by increasing the overall investigation and treatment capacity and reducing the waiting time for vulnerable patient groups. In dealing with the case in the autumn of 2000, the Storting argued that the funds were to be used abroad to avoid further pressure in the Norwegian economy. Preliminary experience with the patient bridge is largely very positive. A total of 9 500 patients will have made use of the scheme by the end of the year and have been investigated and/or treated on a waiting list. The patient bridge has also had additional effects, such as giving hospitals an opportunity to review, quality assurance and clear their waiting lists, which have been an important objective of the owner after taking responsibility for the hospitals. As a result, many patients treated domestically have lost their waiting time. The Government has therefore proposed in the 2003 State Budget to continue a limited patient bridge pending the submission by the Ministry of Health of proposals for amendments to the Patient Rights Act in line with the Sem Declaration. The objective here is to extend the right to free hospital choice and necessary health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e814	I thank the Council of State for the answer, with which I am very pleased. I can understand, when there is uncertainty in medical circles in Norway about the effectiveness and appropriateness of the use of bitten rail, that this is what you want to know. That's a good starting point for looking at this. Based on the information I have received from previous investigations and doctoral degrees on this subject, it is only for 40 pst. that this problem can be addressed by surgery. There's also an oxygen machine that's very efficient, but very many patients have problems using it for a long time. This bit rail will be able to help those who cannot be helped by surgery and who are unable to use an oxygen machine. I am therefore very pleased with it. In Sweden several hospitals have chosen bittskin as their first priority in this treatment. I would like to ask the Council of State a follow-up question: when there is now some information, documentation and doctoral degrees on this, can it be expected that it will take a very long time before you can get the conclusion on the table, so that doctors around the whole country can get this assessed on the basis of the objectivity that will then exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e825	I respect the professional background of the representative Hedstrøm to judge such questions. I don't have the same professional background. Therefore, it is difficult for me to give an exact answer to the supplementary question. But I want to make sure that we ask the Social and Health Directorate for this investigation without delay, and that they do that work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e830	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I have yet another follow-up question: if the conclusion is that this is a favourable treatment, a reasonable treatment, and that will widen the supply to Norwegian patients, will the Council inform the doctors about this by means of a circular or other means, so as to ensure that this treatment method, if any, is well known in medical circles?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e837	The conclusion that the Social and Health Directorate had to reach on this issue will, of course, be made public.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e845	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Two families have applied for assistance in the follow-up to the injury suffered abroad. What families want is help in relation to costs and problems associated with obtaining relevant documents from the current hospital where the mistreatment has taken place, so that they can know what has happened to their child. The cases do not relate to compensation, but to a desire to know what has happened. Is the Council of State, on this basis, willing to review the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e854	I have received a good insight into the situation of the two families through the matters that have been dealt with in the department. I have great compassion for what they've been through. Both cases now concern matters relating to the recovery of costs, including legal expenses in Norway, travel and subsistence expenses, translation expenses, etc. in respect of property establishments abroad. Initially, I would like to point out that it is the Stortinget that adopts the State budget, and that the Department's disposal of funds must be in accordance with law, decision-making and similar regulations. The Ministry may not use funds for purposes for which no funds have been allocated, even if that is a good purpose. This applies to compensation payments, recovery of costs and other types of expenditure. I am aware that the families now do not require compensation from the Norwegian authorities, but want to cover costs abroad. However, I would like to refer to the rules on compensation law in my further explanation, as this is relevant to the assessment of whether it would be reasonable for the Ministry to contribute to covering the costs. One family who lost its child has been assisted in the past by the Ministry’s obtaining and paying for an expert report on treatment abroad. In view of the role of the National Hospital in the matter, the Ministry considered this to be reasonable. However, the Ministry has not found any basis for covering the family's legal costs of property facilities abroad. Reference is made to the fact that this family does not have the right to compensation from the State in respect of the case, either under ordinary claims rules or under the system of patient damages – neither under the temporary regime in force today nor under the new law which has not yet entered into force. Nor would they have had such a patient injury in connection with treatment in Norway. This is related to the rare financial loss caused by the loss of children. In the event of the loss of a child, it may be appropriate to claim compensation for damage of a non-economic nature, so-called upliftment. However, such claims must be addressed directly to the victim(s) and the health authorities will not be responsible for the compensation of non-economic damage, uplifting, even if the treatment has taken place in a public hospital. If the injured party obtains a claim for compensation, they will, as a general rule, also be awarded cover of the necessary costs. It can be said that this family has been extra unfortunate when the damage occurred abroad, so that proceedings must be brought there, with the increased costs involved. Based on the thorough review that the ministry has had of this matter, and the documentation we have received, we have not found the basis for covering the costs in this case. The other family is in a different situation. The child has become disabled. It may therefore be appropriate to compensate for financial loss and compensation. If the treatment had taken place in a hospital in Norway, it cannot be ignored that the injured person would have been entitled to compensation by the health authorities under general compensation rules, since the employer corresponds to some extent to the damage caused by workers, or through the temporary scheme of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation. It has not yet been assessed whether the conditions for compensation would exist if the treatment had taken place in Norway. According to the new Act on Compensation for Patient Damage, which will enter into force in a short period of time, it will be possible to promote claims in Norway even when the damage has occurred in hospitals abroad, when the treatment is wholly or partly paid by Norwegian authorities. However, damages occurring before the entry into force of the Act shall be determined in accordance with the previous rules. The interim patient compensation schemes include partial damage caused abroad, but not before 11 December 2000. It is not possible for this family to have the case dealt with in Norway, nor will it be when the new Patient Damage Act enters into force. The Ministry has offered assistance to the other family by applying to obtain the file from the hospital abroad. When the file is available, it will be assessed whether there is a basis for providing further assistance in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e880	As far as I can understand both a letter from the Minister of Health to the undersigned earlier and in relation to the Minister of Health’s response now, one family – who has had a disabled child as a result of the treatment that has taken place – will be able to receive further assistance. I'm happy with that answer. But it's about that family. In the case of the other family, I am not so pleased with the answer from the Minister of Health. The case is very special. It is special because these are patients who have been sent, among other things. from the Rikshospitalet because we did not have a treatment scheme in Norway for the type of disease this includes, hypoplastic left heart syndrome. Then my question is, does the Minister of Health not see that at least we have a moral responsibility to try to help these families to get an answer? In a legal context, you simply want to be able to evaluate and get answers to the questions you have. It is blocked in these cases, because it is said that you have no legal responsibility, and will therefore not assist further. But doesn't the Minister of Health see the moral responsibility we have to give parents an answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e889	I fully agree with Mr Nesvik that the matter is special. That is also the basis that I have sought for several rounds to turn all the stones to see if we have a basis for providing help in addition to the help already given to this family, and which must also be said to be beyond the department to which it was strictly obliged. I am referring to the fact that this case has been thoroughly assessed in the ministry under two state councils and under two different governments, which have reached the same conclusion. But what has actually happened in the matter is that you have shown that the matter is special, by going in and giving the assistance you have already given. And I have to say, for a government council, too, that you can't give money and grant funds that are not permitted by law or by the decisions and leadership of the Stortinget for the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e896	Now we focus on the family that does not receive further assistance. The special thing is that you have gone to the stage of getting an expert statement, and I think it is positive. It was the last Minister of Health, Tore Tønne, who took the initiative. The special thing is that when the expert report is available, with the points that lie there, which are quite unambiguous in terms of – I was insinuating mistreatment at – this health institution in the United States, the department says that then we can't deliver anymore, then we can't be helpful in moving on. I think that's quite special, at least considering what's in this expert statement. It is also pointed out in a letter to me that if you look at it with the ability to provide legal aid in cases, among other things. to the rest of the world, reference is made to a section 4, such as used in child-removal cases. Then you can find some permits to provide assistance on issues abroad. Why can't you use them in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e903	We are bound by the rules applicable to healthcare in Norway — legal provisions — and the temporary rules applicable to patients’ compensation until the new law enters into force. We are bound by the budgetary decisions and leadership that lie there. I just have to say that if I had found a basis for going further in this case, I would have done so. But I haven't found that basis. And I must also be responsible within the limits of my duties. I would also like to say that the department has actually extended beyond what is strictly required, by assisting the family in obtaining such an independent expert statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e921	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e928	‘The Ministry of Oil and Energy has submitted a draft impact study on all-year petroleum activities from Lofoten and northwards. The draft does not require new research to be carried out. The SFT has pointed out that the identification of knowledge gaps and new research is a prerequisite for strategic decisions to be taken on a professional basis on the continuation of the petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. Will the Council of State ensure that the programme includes requirements for new research?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e935	The work on the analysis of the consequences of all-year petroleum activity, the ULB, has its background in the Sem Declaration. The investigation, as I see it, has two purposes. Firstly, it shall serve as the basis for the consideration by the Government of the question of the conditions and conditions for all-year petroleum activities in the area and shall also be one of the basic documents of the overall management plan. The proposal for an investigation programme for this investigation has been pending, and at the end of the consultation period, we received 38 hearing opinions, including those from the SFT. I think it's a pleasure that so many people have wanted to make a contribution to this process, so that the final result can be the best possible. One of the main tasks of the ULB will just be to identify knowledge gaps. The proposal for an investigation programme states: ‘Where any gaps in knowledge are identified, the investigative work shall propose measures to improve the knowledge base and who shall be responsible for their follow-up.’;» As mentioned above, the ULB will also contribute to the overall management plan. The work on this plan is managed by the Ministry of the Environment. In this context, the Marine Research Institute and the Norwegian Polar Institute have prepared a description of the environment and living marine resources in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area. The environmental description presents the relevant existing data on the marine environment and marine resources in our northern seas, as well as highlights knowledge gaps. The sectoral studies to form the basis for the overall management plan will be based on that environmental description. This applies, in addition to the investigation of fisheries, maritime traffic and external influences. As mentioned above, the comment from the SFT on the identification of knowledge gaps has been included as an important part of the work currently being done. The forthcoming investigations shall just reveal possible gaps in knowledge. I therefore believe that it would not be appropriate at this stage to conclude that the programme for the ULB should include requirements for new research. However, I will not reject the fact that new research may be relevant, but we should await the completion of the investigation before concluding, if necessary, on the need and scope of such research. Then we have the necessary basis to assess how such research can contribute to a deeper understanding and understanding of key processes related to petroleum activities in the northern seas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e957	State pollution control reports in its opinion that the programme will partly be based on existing and partly out-of-date knowledge. I think there's a reason to notice that. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he has not concluded with a view to whether or not new research is to be carried out. Would the State Council like to do so before the application is launched? Or will he conclude after the outlined program has been completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e964	In fact, I think it's just a matter of procedure that makes the representative Sørensen and I have an exchange of views on this in Stortinget, because it's my intention to provide the necessary knowledge also in the form of research programmes if necessary. However, the impact assessment is designed to identify the areas in which these knowledge gaps are of such a nature as to require new research, and where the knowledge gaps are such as to compile different data, to be on the shoulders of the research reports that already exist, in order to identify a particular problem. I can assure you that just knowledge gaps and lack of knowledge of important processes will be a kind of foundation for how I will assess the further process of impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e971	One of the reasons why this question is being asked is that many have interpreted parts of what is in the oil and gas communication, to the point that it has already been concluded that no new research is needed until strategic decisions are taken on petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. I am happy if the Minister of Oil and Energy can confirm that the oil and gas messages should not be read in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e976	I am very pleased that the representative Heidi Sørensen gives me this opportunity to confirm that it is not that I reject the possibility of new research. It is clear that if there is information that makes it necessary to carry out research projects or other types of studies to cover important gaps in knowledge, I will take the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e984	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The Ministry of Oil and Energy, by letter of 12 July, has decided that only Nyhamna shall be subject to impact assessment in relation to the landing of gas from the Worm Lange field. This is despite specific advice from the Ministry of the Environment, the SFT, the Riksantikvaren and the Directorate of Nature Management that the Teldbergodden option should be fully investigated in line with Nyhamna. Why has the Government not provided full equivalence of two alternatives, so that the Storting gets a real choice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e993	As an extension operator for the Worm Lange, Norwegian Hydro has carried out a two-year process to identify the most appropriate site for any landing of the gas from this field. Originally, there were 14 places under evaluation. In the final phase of the site selection process, four sites were continued with an increased level of detail and scope, including, inter alia: Nyhamna and the Tjeldbergodden. Extensive investigations have been carried out, including: of technical, economic, environmental and social aspects. Local and land site assessments and adjustments were made at each of these four sites. Among these, potential gains were assessed by co-location with existing facilities and infrastructure on the Tent Credit. Based on the studies carried out, the rightholders concluded that Nyhamna was the best landing site. The anti-tampering option appeared to be significantly more expensive than the three other sites, mainly due to high investments related to longer pipelines both for pipes from the field to land and for export pipes from countries to markets. According to Norwegian Hydro figures, the investment costs of the project for landing to the Tjeldbergodden are approximately SEK 1.5 billion higher than those of Nyhamna. The operating costs were also estimated to be the highest on the Tent Goods, among others. due to higher energy consumption of the installation in order to send the sales gas south to the markets. The operator's figures showed a total of SEK 1.9 billion higher than the present value of the project with a land site on Nyhamna than a land site on the Tjeldbergodden. According to figures provided by the Ministry of Oil and Energy by Norsk Hydro, impact assessment at more than one site would add 150 million to the partnership. kr in increased costs. In addition, costs resulting from multi-site investigations of power lines will be incurred. It is right that the representative, Mr Vaksdal, points out that the Ministry of the Environment saw it as an advantage if the Tjeldbergodden and Nyhamna were investigated on the same lines in the impact assessment. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment asked for a thorough explanation of the impact assessment of the investigations and assessments on which the site selection was based, if the impact assessment would only cover Nyhamna. In view of the large cost difference between the options that I have explained here, I did not find it appropriate to impose the continuation of the investigation of the Tent Credit. I consider it right that companies can sort out alternatives that are less relevant than others, based on e.g.: significantly higher costs. The continuation of several deployment options right up to landfilling would entail additional costs and be very demanding organisational. I have to ask you to finish the answer; there are some more lines. - Thank you, President! In accordance with the wishes of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry has instructed Norsk Hydro to give a thorough account of the location selection process. The Worm Lange field is considered to be either a clean offshore extension or with a marine underwater facility and shore-based treatment facilities. The rightholders have proposed that the deployment solution be chosen after a comparison of these two options. It is essential to ensure a proper choice that the best development solution for each of the two concepts is compared. For my part, I have the impression that the ongoing process for assessing expansion solutions is both thorough and tidy. Prospectiveness is behind the decision to explore only one country option, and there will be no willingness to invest in the Tjeldbergodden option. During December d.o.b. envisages the choice of development solution by the rightholders. I will follow this process very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1014	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is well known that the Tent Credit was removed by operators, based on an investment cost difference of around DKK 1 billion – or SEK 1.5 billion, as the Council of State has now confirmed. However, this is well within the DKK 3 billion of uncertainty in the calculations that existed when the decision was taken. In addition, we know that Nyhamna represents ‘a green site’ where you don’t know the extent of archaeological values, and this increases the risk with Nyhamna. Many argue that the difference in cost in itself does not imply that this option is significantly cheaper, thus excluding all other options. Was the Ministry aware of this when the impact assessment programme was established?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1023	The number is now one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1026	It would not be right to take the uncertainty charge of NOK 3 billion to income because one could then also have investigated the Tent Credit. The Tent Credit also had to have its uncertainty claim, which would then get the SEK 1.5 billion higher. Nor do we have occasion on the part of the authorities to impose on the builder costs, neither in terms of investigation nor investment and operation, unless the State itself would go through with funds and support this. I believe that this is not the case and that it is not the intention of the questioner. In the impact study, we have asked the operator to give a thorough account of all the investigations and assessments taken in relation to the choice of landing site, including environmental and economic considerations, and how one has actually arrived at the four alternatives that were finally included in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1033	According to the law, current alternatives have to be assessed consistently. General practice has been that if all parties agree that only one option is real, only it will be investigated. On the other hand, if there are good reasons why other alternatives are involved, at least one of these shall be investigated. With the many objections that have come from the bodies I mentioned in my main question, I believe, among other things. the centre of competence for impact assessments that the normal procedure is to determine the impact of the Tent Credit option. What is the basis on which the Council of State will now change its practice of ignoring other current options?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1038	My opinion is that the department has followed the guidelines in this area which the representative has now referred to. In comparison to having a real alternative, we considered that an onshore solution — a landing solution — as an alternative to offshore solution would provide a necessary choice between several alternatives. One shall bear in mind that at the time this decision was taken, there was a significant cost difference between the landing option and the offshore solution. I have never hidden my hope that it would be possible to defend a landing solution. I have then considered it most appropriate to concentrate all the attention and investigation around one option that has proved to be so much more favourable at cost than all the others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1046	‘I refer to previous questions on the impact of all-year petroleum activities in the northern seas. The answer was that the investigation should be completed in spring/summer 2003. It was also blacked out that clarification was important for companies in order to have framework conditions that ensure long-term viability for further activity. The Council of State has now informed the companies that this will take much longer, despite the completion of the impact assessment. What is the reason for the whole reversal of this matter by the Government?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1053	In connection with a previous question, from the representative Sørensen, I gave a description of the work on the study of the consequences of all-year petroleum activities in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area. Through this work, the Government wants to have a good and safe decision-making basis before we can conclude that it is appropriate to continue all-year petroleum activities in the northern seas. In the reply I gave to the representative Korsberg on 20 March this year, I signaled that the investigation would be completed in spring/summer 2003. This timetable has been slightly shifted, but it is nevertheless expected that the investigation may be submitted to the Government during the autumn of 2003. In the Sem Declaration, the Government states that until the impact assessment of all-year petroleum activity in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area, abbreviated ULB, has been completed, no further petroleum activity will be carried out in the Barents Sea. The government is standing firm at this point of view. While the oil industry is, of course, engaged in rapid activity in this sea area, the Government wants to have a good decision base before any decision on petroleum activity in this area can be taken. However, in the context of the consultation of the proposal for the ULB, it has been stated in several hearings that the investigation of all-year petroleum activities in the Lofoten-Barents Sea is not a satisfactory basis for deciding on future oil and gas activities in the northern regions. It is also claimed that these decisions must await the subsequent management plan for the Barents Sea, which will also include the environmental impacts of fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport and external impacts. The government will now await the finalisation of the ULB before we finally conclude what decisions we will take on the basis of this document, and what decisions must await the overall management plan. The crucial thing for me is that we have a sufficiently professional basis to be able to say that the activities in question can be carried out in a proper manner without damaging the environment at the time we agree to such activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1072	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that there must be a safe and sound basis for decision-making, and then you can ask questions about what has been the basis for decision-making in the past in the Norwegian oil and gas industry. I also record that the Council of State wants Statoil and Norsk Hydro to participate in the Barents Sea on the Russian side. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy what environmental impact assessment has been carried out on the Russian side regarding the environment in the field of oil and gas extraction? We are all aware of the environmental measures that Norway has been involved in on the country side, with several hundred million dollars in response to pollution from, among others. Nikel.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1081	It is enough that the Russian legislation, both for oil activities and for environmental considerations, has in no way the same guiding principles as those underlying Norwegian petroleum activities and environmental considerations. That is why it is important for us that we have a close energy dialogue with Russia, and that is what we have been able to establish. I see it as very important both for industrial activity, of course, for those companies the representative of Korsberg mentioned, and also for a technology transfer and for the harmonisation of the legislation between our two countries, so that any Russian petroleum activity in North-West Russia will be within the framework of what we consider to be sound. Harmonisation of legislation is an objective, but I realise, of course, that it is a step forward. But in the light of the energy dialogue we have established, there is hope that we can achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1086	There were many fine words, many good wishes and a lot of hope, but the reality is well another in Russia. I just want to remind the Council of State that Norsk Hydro has been there for 14 years without getting any special counting. Statoil has also tried to get in, without getting any special counting. I think it is worrying that there is a Norwegian bet on one side of the Barents Sea border and not on the other. Norway is one of the countries with the most stringent environmental requirements for oil and gas extraction. This will have a major impact on the industry at risk of job losses. Olav Mountain in Statoil has said that there will be a halve of exploration costs if there is no exploration in the Barents Sea. I guess the situation is the same for the other companies. Is the Council of State emphasising these opinions on the risk of loss of Norwegian jobs and the necessary skills, which will be very difficult to rebuild?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1093	The government assumes a long-term and as stable as possible activity in the petroleum industry. That means that we want to meet the industry's expectations of offering prospective areas and interesting tasks that can attract not only the interests of the two Norwegian companies but also the interests of international oil companies. That interest is not only linked to the Barents Sea, where 60 holes have been drilled, half of which have been dry, and come in a clear third place in terms of expectations of resources in relation to the Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. So the government wants a real decision-making basis for what it wants to do. Then I have to remind the representative of Korsberg of something, since he wanted to remind me of a relationship, namely that there has been a lot of Russian policy and legislation that is promising to hope for Norwegian industrial participation, and that also makes business activity more predictable in relation to framework conditions and taxes. It opens up very interesting possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1104	I would like to ask the following questions to Minister for Children and Family Affairs, Davay: ‘The impression of the Swedish Consumer Council is that very many are satisfied with the work done by the Consumer Council. After 1 July of this year, a reorganization of the Consumer Council was carried out in which the Governing Board is given greater authority. On 19 November, the Administrative Board shall submit a proposal to the Management Board proposing to reduce the number of offices from 19 to 10. This will mean a significant deterioration in terms of. proximity and local knowledge. Is the Council of State saying that a possible halving the current consumer office is good for citizens and the overall regional policy?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1113	I share the SV's impression that very many people are satisfied with the work the Consumer Council is doing. The organisation plays an important role as a spokesperson for consumers, and they also carry out extensive advisory and information activities. The Consumer Council today has offices in all the counties, quite rightly with one in common for Oslo and Akershus, and in one county there are also two offices. Offices help to make the organisation visible in many regions of the country. On the other hand, offices are small, and therefore relatively vulnerable. Furthermore, many small units spread across the country cost-effectively. I am aware that the Consumer Council Board is currently assessing how best to carry out consumer policy work, given the resource framework available to the organisation. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I find it right to wait to comment on any reorganization proposals until the board has dealt with the matter. I'm not familiar with the administration's attitude, as Ryan here refers to. It will be important when the board has had its meeting, to look at the premises and reasons for the board's conclusion, which I do not yet know. In my opinion, the question is not primarily about the number of offices, but about how best to ensure that consumers are offered. I would like to point out here that almost all enquiries to the Consumer Council today take place via telephone and other means of distance communication. The Consumer Council, as far as I can judge, is in the process of undertaking a necessary and positive modernisation of the organisation, where new information technologies and new and improved service solutions will be central. The need for local presence, as the current consumer office operates, must be balanced against other considerations, such as the economy and quality of service provision. It is from this perspective and not primarily in a district policy torturing that the issue of the number and location of local offices belongs. I cannot give a detailed answer to the representative Ryan's question until I have seen the board's assessment, handling and results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1126	In my own county, Nord-Trøndelag, I took a little check round on the question of question time. It's a small county, with 130,000 inhabitants. The Office has 5 000 enquiries per year. year, of which 1000 take place at direct meetings in the Agency. Similarly, 20-30 school classes also receive information on consumer policy from this office. I believe that it shows that proximity, the fact that offices have been located in many places in the country, is important, when you know that 1,000 contacts actually take place at the office and also in relation to what I mentioned about school classes. Share the Council of State's view that it has a certain importance to have offices spread beyond, that not everyone seems to be able to make contact per. Phone? And likewise, isn't it important that you have knowledge about local conditions when you're going to answer some questions? We know that you, for example. in Nord-Trøndelag, there is much more detailed knowledge of different local conditions than calling or contacting Oslo, to a nationwide office, where it will be more difficult to have that type of overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1133	I agree with the SV representative that it is important that we have offices spread throughout the country. I don't know much about the Consumer Council's plans per year. Today, but I still want to say that material can also be brought out via other channels today. The Internet plays an important role in this context. They have also launched this year from the Consumer Council a new web portal that provides a transparent access to very good consumer material online. Another channel, which I have called for, may be the public service offices, of which we have a great many throughout the country, and the Consumer Council itself has come to the conclusion that the public service offices can play a role in the information context. We therefore see that the Consumer Council's office structure in some contexts may be compensated by seeking closer cooperation with the public service offices, and then some of that information will actually get even closer to the users today. That's a little bit of this picture that we also have to include, and that I know the board is also working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1138	I am pleased that the Council of State wants flexible solutions for consumer offices, including: with the public service offices. I totally agree. What worries me, however, is that there is a rather high rate of reorganization in relation to the building up of a well-functioning structure. I have a question to the Council of State: Is she willing to follow closely, so that she does not do some hasty things now? The Council of State is, after all, the top in charge of consumer policy in the country, and I hope and want to ask that you follow closely, so that you do not find some hasty solutions. We in SV are at least willing to spend some more money together with the Government if that's the problem of getting good solutions and a decentralised structure. Will the Council of State follow closely in this matter, so that nothing hastens that will be unfortunate for consumers and for the country as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1143	The answer to that is yes. This matter cannot really be said to have been very hasty, it has been discussed for several years, and already last year there was a good deal in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget on this. I also answered questions about the budget debate in Stortinget in December, where I was also asked about the number of consumer offices. What we need to be aware of is that in the new statutes of the new board it is called that major changes in consumer offices should be presented to a thorough political process. It will also be done if, in this case, the Board of Directors may propose the closure of offices. Nevertheless, in that debate last December, I said that it is important, in line with the developments we have had, also to look at a modernisation and an organisational structure and other ways of working, and if we have some structures here in our municipalities that can be used to maybe some of the information get closer to the users, I actually think it would be an even better development than having the status quo, but I'm going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1152	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Conclusion of marriages with substitutes is not permitted in Norway. In some countries, on the other hand, marriages with substitutes are allowed. Introducing a principle in which the limitations of the marriage law apply also to marriages made abroad would be an important measure to prevent coercion. Will the Government consider introducing a principle in Norway that the restrictions of the marriage law also apply to marriages made abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1161	The government cannot introduce a principle in Norway that the limitations of the marriage law also apply to marriages made abroad. Such a principle would be contrary to international law based on the principle that marriage is determined by the country of marriage. Against this background, a marriage made with an alternate may be considered valid in Norway. The exception is where marriage is strongly opposed to our sense of justice – so-called ‘order public’. This is an internationally recognised position. Although marriages with proxy persons are not permitted in Norway, many countries that allow marriages with proxy persons or proxy holders have just been concluded. Among other things, I can mention the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Poland and some countries in the United States. If we were to introduce such a principle as the representative Eye suggests, the consequence would be, for example, that. a Dutch couple who move to Norway and who married in the Netherlands by proxy were not considered married in Norway. It's hardly a cover to say that a marriage made by a proxy in general is very contrary to our sense of justice. However, if there is no necessary involvement or consent of the party not present at the wedding, it is strongly contrary to our sense of justice to recognise the marriage as a valid marriage. Such a situation would also violate the rules of the UN Convention on Marriage. Article 1 of the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1962 on the Consent of Marriage states that ‘activities shall not be legally enforceable without the free and complete consent of both parties’. The Convention was ratified by Norway in 1964. As many people here are probably familiar with, and as possibly the background to the question, I have previously stated in the NRK Day Review about marriages made abroad with alternates. However, what did not come out clearly enough in the entry is that in Norway we only recognise marriages made with substitutes when both consents. If it is clear that there is no consent, marriage will be contrary to Norwegian law – our ‘order public’ rule and the UN Convention. This means, therefore, that a marriage made abroad with an alternate must be considered invalid if it is established that the necessary consent was not available. In such a case, it may also be claimed that the marriage is invalid as a result of unlawful coercion. There is currently no government agency in Norway that approves marriages made abroad, but marriages are to be registered in the Folkeregister. If it is clear from a foreign marriage document or from information provided by the parties involved that the required consent is not available, the Folkeregister will not register the marriage. Otherwise, I can inform you that the Government wants to assess more closely the practices of the People's Registry in this regard. It will also not be able to provide the basis for a family reunification permit. The final decision as to whether a marriage is valid or invalid is a matter for the courts to decide. However, as the representative is sure to know, the Government will introduce unconditional public prosecution in matters relating to forced marriage, and will state that the reinforced criminal framework can be applied by coercion. As part of the work against coercion, the Government sent a proposal for amendments to the marriage law to be consulted before the summer vacation. It is proposed here, among other things: admission of the State to bring an action for the validity of the marriage. In addition, a system of civil testing of the conditions of marriage is finally proposed. This proposal is, to my delight, supported by most hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1174	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I am a little surprised by the answer, when we know that Sweden has proposed that marriages made abroad involving one related to Sweden should not be valid if it has not been concluded in accordance with Swedish law. In this way, marriage with substitutes involving a Swedish citizen or a marriage made between people under 18 years of age – who are also illegal in Sweden – will be invalid. It is then impossible to circumvent Swedish marriage law by marrying in another country. We know that a lot of marriages with substitutes abroad are forced marriages. There may be many forms of coercion — both mild and strong — but at least it comes under the term ‘compulsory marriage’. Then why can the Swedes, who have probably joined the same international laws and conventions, do this, but not we?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1183	I do not know about this proposal from Sweden. Nor do I know the details of the Swedish marriage law, and whether it is. take into account compliance with international obligations as well. You might think there's something there. We've at least looked at this, also from the legal side. However, the point must be that if a marriage is concluded by coercion, the absence of consent, it shall also be considered null and void in Norway. We are now making it possible to invalidate it in a simple and easy way, which has not been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1190	I thank the Council again for the answer. I have to say that when there is no agreement from both parties, there should be no need for this to be recognised as invalid. It is also the case that the Council of State will now propose that the State should be able to bring an action against one of the parties if it is found that this is likely to be void. But we know that we have a law of circumcision, and we have a law against coercion, and so far no one is convicted. Then I am afraid that this again will be a new paper law, where we cannot capture those who are being coerced here. I again ask the Council of State: will the Council of State go in and look at what the Swedishs are doing, so that we are at least sure that here we can take action if it does not conflict with the international commitments that we have agreed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1199	Of course, it is important that we follow in which changes to the laws are proposed in the other Nordic countries. We have extensive cooperation in the Nordic region, both in terms of gender mutilation and coercion – so of course I will follow along. In addition, I must say that I am quite proud that we on the part of the Government have put forward a new plan against coercion, which involves both legislation and legislative changes in this area. Perhaps another important legislative proposal, namely that of imposing unconditional public prosecutions in matters relating to forced marriage, here will facilitate quite a lot, and will be able to do so in cases where women or boys themselves who have been coerced, do not dare or dare to travel. So I think that with the legislative amendments and the regulatory changes contained in our action plan, we are going to deal with this in a much more offensive way. I am pleased that this government has taken these initiatives, and that the Storting may be supporting everything that lies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1210	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Through the press it has been known that discrimination has taken place against fishermen who, as a result of disease, have to leave the fishery for a period of time. Some lose their quota and thus their job in connection with illness, while others get it back after they have been ill. Can the Council of States confirm that it is so, and what may be done to correct such an unfair relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1219	The rules governing the participation in the fishing for cod in Group I have required previous activity in order to participate. The requirement has been deliberately lowered, and has been that you must have fished 15 pst in recent years. of the quota on cod for one of the previous two years in order to gain entry the following year. Thus, the requirement for activity has been very low, according to the quotas that many think are low. Nevertheless, the regulations have had the right to grant exemptions from the activity requirement in certain cases, including: in the case of disease. This access has been precisely set up to ensure that some could come into a situation where they could not meet the requirement. However, due to a low level of activity, the exemption has been strictly practised. Those who have not complied with the requirement due to disease have normally had to refer to a medical report that has been of such a duration that it has deprived them of the opportunity to comply with the requirement to have fished a certain quantity in one of the previous two years. In recent times, we have changed our practice and eased the demand for a specific medical report. We have taken the view that, in special cases, medical statements may provide sufficient evidence of disease. It must be emphasised that the issues of exemption from the activity requirement due to disease are complex and often have a very complex problem. It will therefore be difficult to compare cases with each other, to which the representative Arnesen refers with reference to recent press releases. When examining these cases, a concrete and discretionary assessment is made on a case-by-case basis, in order to determine whether the conditions for exemption are met. If disease is likely to have prevented compliance with the activity requirement, a derogation has been granted. For information, I can also inform you that from 2002 onwards, I have removed the requirement to refer to previous activities in order to participate in cod fishing. This will include, inter alia: be consistent – and that is what the representative of Arnesen is asking for – that in the future there will be no such issues as are referred to in the question from the representative of Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1232	Getting seriously sick is a big tragedy for the individual. When you don't get back the job you've had, once you've recovered, the tragedy gets doubled in many ways. The workline says the opposite; the goal is to get the most from social security to work again. Therefore, it has to be cleaned up in such cases. I'm glad of what the council here says. But in the specific matters that have been mentioned in the newspapers and in the NRK, I record that this has not happened. In specific cases, people have become unemployed because they have been so unlucky to get sick. Will the Council of State address these specific issues and resolve them, so that people, who have recovered from serious illness, get back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1237	I agree with the description of the consequences of people getting sick from pursuing a hard profession like the fishing profession, which the representative Arnesen gave. With regard to the specific case, that someone has lost the opportunity to continue in the profession and has lost rights due to illness, practice has been that one could present a medical report that was likely to do so. I have, precisely in view of a meeting in line with what the representative Mr Arnesen wants, amended the legislation after I arrived in the department. At the same time, I have registered the statements and the issues that have been presented in the media. I know that the Civil Ombudsman has dealt with individual cases following a complaint, and that the Civil Ombudsman's conclusion in one case has been that they have not found any evidence that the Ministry can be legally criticised for the waiver of the exemption, and that the Ministry appears to have carried out a proper assessment of the information provided by the case in relation to the regulations in force at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1246	I thank you again for the answer. That this legislation has been amended, I think it is good. But more importantly, when the legislation has changed, no one remains in it or hangs in it. I believe that it is necessary to use discretion here, and to look at the human situation rather than a rigid code that has been. My wish and my prayer to the Council of State is that here you have to take human considerations and let people who so like to go back to work, and who have boat and use and are ready to start fishing, get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1255	I see the temptation, both for a government council and for others, in many cases to be able to make a rematch in relation to the decisions made either by the political leadership that has been in a department earlier, or decisions taken in a directorate and made at best discretion and on the basis of the legislation that has been adopted. I have taken the consequence that I felt the need to change the legislation, and that applies to the issues that arise now. I also support the issues I have addressed, and I referred to a specific case in which the Civil Ombudsman has been involved and made his assessment of the decision that was made in his time, in 1999, in the department, and that they do not criticize it, but say that it has been done according to a judgement that is enshrined in the legislation. On that basis, I have dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1265	I allowed myself to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘30. In October 2002, the requested bankruptcy of Myre Fiskeindustri AS. 156 more lost their job. It is now known that the parent company of Myre Fiskeindustri and Nordic Sea Trawlers, Nordic Sea Holding, have applied for a waiver for the public service obligations of Øksnes. Through different companies, the state has a majority share in Nordic Sea Holding. What has the Council of State done, and what will it do to ensure that these trawlers continue to deliver in Øksnes, and that the industry will continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1274	As Storingsrepresentative Elvik refers to, it is no more than approx. 14 days ago the business of ants went bankrupt. It takes some time — it shows all experience — to get new owners to take over or decide what else to do in the future. That doesn't mean, however, that we're not awake from the department. I have already had a meeting with representatives of the municipality of Øksne and of the municipality of Nordland and another meeting with representatives of the Nordic Sea Holding AS. It's still unclear what's going to happen. All experience also shows that it is not unnatural after two weeks. The acquisition and concession of the two trawls was granted to the current owners, Nordic Sea Holding AS, in order for the trawls to secure raw material for installations in Øksnes. Pending clarification of any new operation of the fishing activities on Myre, the delivery obligations for trawls will be maintained. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Nordic Sea Holding has not applied for a derogation from the delivery conditions, as Mr. Åsa Elvik claims. In this way, the question is based on failing assumptions. On the other hand, Nordic Sea Holding has made it clear to me that they will meet the delivery obligations of the two trawls. In the case of future operations in the Ant fishing industry, there is also reason to recall that the studies carried out by the Directorate show that extensive improvements are necessary in order for the establishment to comply with the applicable hygiene and safe food requirements. In this context, there might be reason to say that, in general, I can disclose that the operating basis based on the exemption from the applicable regulations will be limited in time, will be short-lived and will be based on a thorough investigation in each case, which is also done in this case and on the basis of which the company found to notify the offer. However, it is important to keep this clear, because we are to ensure the production of food under hygienic, reassuring conditions, and not to give competitive advantages to establishments that do not meet the requirements of the regulations, compared to establishments that have invested to meet the applicable requirements. I would like to refer here to the tightening of legislation on hygiene and quality in the production of food for the international market. We are serious about this, we have tightened up, and the rules of the EEA Agreement are based on international standards, and it does not allow for exemption without in very special cases. But in the case of the trawls, the question is based on failure. The company has not applied for a derogation, as it is claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1289	It is true, as the Council of State says, that the company has not applied for exemption from universal service obligations. I have become aware of this after the question was delivered. There was an error in a note I had access to. But I don't think this is an authoritative premise for the question, because the question is what the Council of State wants to do to ensure that the trawlers can continue to deliver in Øksnes, and what he might do to ensure that the industrial business continues with a change of ownership. There is a disconcerting condition in the concession given, that this is related to delivery and processing. This is a common condition along the coast, but unfortunately we know that the conditions are not enforced in the department, with tragic consequences, I would say. For example, in the municipality of Bø, which I know very well, it has been an identical case. The plumber was sold under conditions of delivery and processing without this being enforced in the department. Would the Council like to enforce this condition, or is this only a paper condition?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1296	I have to say with respect that I am surprised that the representative Elvik here informs me that she is aware that what is being said in the question, which is the basis for the question, is wrong. I am surprised that the issue is maintained, because it contributes to the unrest in the community. I'm told a little bit about helping to create uncertainty in a community like Myre, by asking questions that the representative here admits she's familiar with is on a failed basis. I insist that the delivery conditions are not broken. The company has made it quite clear to me yesterday that they want to maintain the delivery conditions. There is no other reason for me than to register it. I have intensified my contact with the municipality, the county council and the company as well as publicly in the media that we have no plans to weaken the delivery obligations of these two jets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1303	I still believe that this was not an outstanding premise for the question, because if the Council of State wants us to have a further industrial activity in Øksnes, it is nevertheless necessary to make a change of ownership. So if the premise is wrong, as the council says, it's not the debatable premise for the question. The question is what the Council of State will do to ensure that the change of ownership will continue to lead to industrial activity in Øksnes. That's what I think I'm still standing by. Governments have a number of instruments, including: because the State has a majority ownership of this company and can do things in that way. And then, of course, we have the terms and conditions that relate to our universal service obligations. So this is a kind question for the Council of State to say what he's done and what he's going to do here. That the one premiss is wrong, I don't think I'm going to take the question away. There is concern in the Ant community, regardless of whether the premise pointed to by the Council of State is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1312	Yeah, I'm worried in any case where a corner stone company goes over and gets into trouble. However, both the company and other actors assure that they are working intensively to clarify the situation. It is a very short time since this happened, and it is reasonable that the parties will have a time to change when the situation became as it was and was triggered by the fact that we want food production under safe conditions. But by sticking to the question as it is designed, it is fully based on the assumption that exemptions from the delivery obligations have been applied for. I would like to stress very strongly that from my side that manages this part of the business, namely the delivery obligations, there is no reason to doubt. I have stated to the public and to the municipal and county authorities that it is not appropriate to weaken it. Then I feel that those who try to draw a picture of the uncertainty around it are helping to create further uncertainty in the community, and I think the community should have been spared for that. I therefore hope that we can later agree that questions in the inquiry of the Minister for Fisheries will be based on realities and not on a wrong situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1320	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «The day school in Sarpsborg works very well for many unemployed. Many people regain faith in themselves and return to an active working life. The day-high school is not recognised as a building of competence and is therefore not recognised by Aetat as a vocational re-education. I have been contacted by several people who attend the Daghöjskolan, but who have to quit. This is unfortunate and excludes many who have the opportunity to improve their quality of life and get back to work. What can be done to approve this type of measure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1329	The question raised by the representative May Hansen therefore concerns the alleged fact that the disabled person does not receive an approved education at the Daghöchskole in Sarpsborg as a training course. The reason is said to be that the school should not be recognised as a builder of competence. This must be due to a misunderstanding. In the past, the People's Security Act had a provision on authorised resettlement agencies. This provision has not had any practical effect since Aetat assumed overall responsibility for vocational retraining in 1994. This provision was therefore withdrawn from the legislation in 2001. Since 1994, there has been no system of recognition by a training establishment in relation to the recognition of training as a re-education course. By contrast, until the second half of 2001 there was a requirement that training should be officially recognised. It meant, in practice, that the training had to qualify for loans from the State Loan Fund for Education in order for it to be recognised as a training course. This requirement was removed in June 2001, including: because it was considered that it could have adverse and unintended effects to disqualify courses of training which, after a complete professional assessment, appeared most appropriate. Thus, in principle, the legislation in force does not impose any restrictions, either on the type of training that can be recognised as a re-education course, on the duration of training or on the place of training. However, the prerequisite for obtaining recognition of education or schooling as a means ofrecovering expenditure on living, school money and school material is that the education or schooling of the disabled person is considered as a necessary and appropriate measure to get into work. The discretionary assessment of what is necessary and appropriate shall be carried out locally in the light of a labour market assessment of the individual jobseeker’s ability to maintain and provide work. Particular emphasis is placed on the self-management of the disabled person’s own career, including educational and professional choices. However, in some cases there will be different perceptions between users’ own desires and what Aetat considers realistic and necessary in terms of getting into work. Based on this general background, as far as Aeta's relationship with the Daghöjskolan in Sarpsborg is concerned, I have obtained information from the department in connection with the question. I have been informed that Aetat has not refused training at Daghöjskolan on a general basis. In a few cases, a local authority has considered data courses at school as useful clarification before any further education in ICT. However, it is true that in several cases, Aetat has not approved training at the Diary as necessary and appropriate. In that case, this is a concrete assessment of the individual case. Particular attention has been paid to the content of the training, including the fact that the courses do not provide formal professional competence or are considered sufficient to enable him to enter work. These are typical issues where local discretion is very important, and where our intention of delegation of responsibility must be realised. We believe that it provides the best solutions for those who are going to reintroduce. I have full confidence that Aetat locally exercises the discretion necessary in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1342	What is considered appropriate and what is put into formal professional competence may differ from one Aetat office to another. What happens at the Sarpsborg School of Education is that students, young people, who haven't managed to finish a school run, who haven't been able to go to school, get their quality of life up every day. That in itself I believe is competence – to be able to go to work every day, go to school every day, gain competence. This is assessed differently from one office to another, as was also the case with the Council of State. It seems quite arbitrary who gets this system approved and not. What will the Council of State do to make practice more equal? And what does the Council of State think is real competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1349	I do not aim to have a level playing field in the treatment of different people. As I said in my first answer, it is not that Aetat locally cannot accept a course at the Daghöjskolan in Sarpsborg. On the contrary, they have done so in specific cases. But first, what is our policy is that we should delegate discretionary responsibility to the local Aetat and, second, that what is going to happen in the local Aetat units is that we should have an assessment of the individual user’s needs on individual user premises and assess different types of training and education courses in relation to the individual’s needs and the available offers. An individual assessment will then have to be made on a case-by-case basis, and not all will have access to the same school, but all will have to be required to have an offer tailored to their individual needs. That's exactly what Aetat's local in Sarpsborg has been trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1354	I very much agree with the Council when he says ‘the needs of single users’ and ‘individual assessment’. It's also clear that the starting point must be what you want and what you can do. I am going to take a very specific example: the computer card that the Council of State itself was in, you get at the Daghöjskolan in Sarpsborg. It'll cost you nothing. Aetat refers users to the IT Academy instead, where the same data card costs more than NOK 70 000, despite the fact that users themselves want to go to the Daghöjskole. Does the Council of State consider this to be a good economy for society? Doesn't the Council of State mean that the individual's right should also apply here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1361	I cannot do much other than repeat what I said: Aetat locally has used the Diary in some cases and has found it not very appropriate in other cases. They have then stressed both the need to meet the needs of individual users and what they consider appropriate in individual cases. There they have, among other things: also focussed on both formal competence and the actual content offered in the training. So here is a local individual judgement, which in some cases has resulted in the use of the offer made by the Daghochschule, and in other cases has had the consequence that it has not been done. And I don't see that there are any circumstances that talk about overcoming that judgement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1369	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘Despite a broad effort in recent years to reduce the number of fires in Norway, the country is still on the top of international fire statistics. According to World Fire Statistics, the economic losses of fires represent 0,30 pst. of GDP in Norway, much more than in any other country. The corresponding figures for Japan are 0.09, Finland 0.15, USA 0.11 and Denmark 0.20. Branner is a serious social problem. Power failure is close to 50 pst. by the causes of the fire. Should not all household members have a check on the electrical system carried out at least every 5 years?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1378	It's right, as Andersen's representative points out, that we in Norway are struggling with too high numbers as far as fires are concerned. For material losses due to fires in Norway there was a decrease in total damage payments a few years ago, but developments now show an increasing trend, and for 2001 the total payments were about DKr 4 billion. We're the lowest in the Nordic region in terms of the total number of electric fires per year. million inhabitants – but there is lean consolation. The number is clearly too high. It is therefore not possible to get away from the fact that electrically generated fires are a serious problem both in Norway and in other countries. St.meld. No 41 for 2000–2001, presented by the previous government, set ambitious targets to reduce the number of fatalities and material losses caused by fires in Norway for the five-year period 2001–2005. This is the goal that I am concerned with following up, and the work must be done on several fronts. Electricity security is an important part of fire prevention work. As a result of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, which has recently been dealt with by the Storting, the fire prevention work will be further strengthened by a new Directorate for Preparedness and Security. For the purpose of the supervision of electrical installations in dwellings, the local electricity supervision carries out spot checks on the electrical system in 90 000 to 100000 households each year. This means that, on average, checks are carried out on each household every 20 years. The checks are based on a risk assessment of the dwellings, i.e. priority is given to the most vulnerable. Major changes both in the private electricity market and on the authority side require a review of the control of electrical installations. I am in the process of evaluating the use of resources and the organisation of the local electricity control system these days. The frequency, scope and organisation of technical checks will be further assessed in this review, including full roadworthiness testing of the electrical system in all households at specified intervals. However, I believe that other instruments are also important in the fight to avoid material losses and deaths from fire. In this context, I would like to highlight information and awareness-raising. This is something we are actively working on today through seminars, campaigns and other actions aimed at the general public and specific target groups. Among the measures to reduce residential fires for electric reasons, I can mention in particular that a common Norwegian fire campaign is planned as a result of dry cooking on electric stoves. This will include both technical measures and information measures aimed at particularly vulnerable groups. I am also aware that the 2003 Directorate for Fire and Electricity is planning a separate campaign called ‘Dwelling safety’, which will also include measures aimed at the eradication of fires, such as: sprinkler systems in certain types of dwellings. I will return to Stortinget, as appropriate, with a detailed explanation of the organisation of the supervision of electrical installations in dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1391	I thank the Council of State so much for the answer. I just want to mention that both the responsible directorate and the government and the magnificence in recent years after my vision, they have done all they can to get Norway away from the top of the fire. So my question is not meant to be any criticism of any parties, but it is supposed to be a more factual and constructive input into this debate. After being the case rapporteur for a number of matters in this area, I feel a certain responsibility to address this matter when the relevant events take place. Unfortunately, it looks like no matter what all of the good forces do in this context, the big positive effects are missing. It's discouraging, I think, but of course we don't have to give up. I certainly believe that an offer of increased surveillance frequency and a better quality control of the elopplating in particularly older residential buildings is a way to go in this context. The Council of State said it took 20 years between each time we get such supervision, my proposal is that this must take a maximum of five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1400	I appreciate the question. And as I said, we're looking at the organisation of local supervision, including we're also assessing the frequency of controls. So I think the recordings are of great interest. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are other aspects of fires that might have as high a priority as control of things related to the electrical system itself. In 2001, 9 people died in fires caused by dry cooking in Norway. There were 9 of the total 16 who died in electrically-induced fires. But of the electric fires last year, there were no fires caused by faults in the electrical system that led to death. That means that when I say that we have to give priority to the work to reduce the number of fires caused by other things related to the electrical system than faults on the system itself, I also hope that the representative Andersen agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1407	Yes, I shall say quite pleased with the answer I have received from the Council of State here today. It has been the case in recent years that several decisions have been taken here in the United Kingdom on new objectives, new strategies and measures intended to help reduce the number of fires in Norway. Then there's something discouraging when we're still at the top of international fire statistics. We've had a period of 20-30 years when we could've kind of abdicated from this top of fire, but we don't have that clear. We therefore know that the incorrect use or failure of electrical installations in residential buildings is an important cause of fire. Here we have defined a clear reason, and then we must also be willing to put in place targeted measures. And since the Council of State says they're also going to evaluate the frequency of supervision, I'm going to say that I'm happy with the answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1414	I will be allowed to thank you for that comment. I just want to add one little thing in the end: in this review of how to organise supervision and get increased supervisory frequency, I also think there is a need to get a slightly more holistic approach to supervision related to fire prevention work in homes, and in particular to get a stronger connection also to the holiday function and other functions that are important in a comprehensive fire prevention work in relation to homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1422	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘In a larger municipality, I have been made aware of the announcement of posts in the health and social sector where most posts are advertised as 10, 20, 30 and 40 pst. posts. A book collective is looking for 6 help nurses/carers, all in 10.33 p.m. position. We also know that many care workers want 100 pst. posts. What can the Council of State do with this extreme part-time issue in the care sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1431	The representative Alvheim addresses a problem that the department and I are concerned about. Many people in the care sector work part-time. A study of working time and underemployment among help nurses and carers recently carried out by FAFO showed that a large proportion of part-time employment has a significant negative impact on quality of service and efficiency. Part-time employment can also make recruitment more difficult and weaken the working environment. 28 pst. part-time and wanted to work more. The main message of the FAFO report is that both employers, users and a large proportion of employees will have a staff policy based on full-time and large part-time jobs. The reason for the high proportion of part-time workers is complex. These include: on competence in terms of working time/tour planning and management. It is also a matter of some limitations in the law and contract work, and some workers want to work part-time on grounds of family and other reasons. Among other things, many in the entire tour positions want to work less on weekends. This leads to the need to fill weekend shifts with part-time jobs. It is the municipality as the employer who is responsible for the recruitment, staffing and organisation of the municipality's services. To some extent, the municipalities are bound by frameworks set by the legal and contractual works. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has set up a separate sample, the Labour Law Committee, to review the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act. Problems related to shift and rotation work in the care and care sector are part of the sample’s discussions. The Committee shall present its work on 1 December 2003. I will follow the work and follow-up carefully. The Ministry has ongoing and formalised contacts with the Local Governments’ Central Association on the work on the challenges of municipal health and social services. In the future, I will also pay great attention to their responsibilities for the situation and to help reverse developments. In the spring of 2003, the Government will present a Communication to the European Council on the quality and content of care for the elderly. In this message I would like to give a broad review of the issues related to recruitment, crewing, tour and organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1451	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She seems to be in line with me in that it is very unfortunate that these low fractions in the care sector, which will result in that they need to deal with far more people than they should. As I see it, the removal of these small fractions will be one of the most important steps you can take to improve the recruitment of care workers. After all, it is a hopeless job situation for carers who depend on a income that you can live on, to have to take up with fractional jobs as low as 10 pst, and thus have to deal with a large number of employers to survive. When the municipalities practice such small fractions, it is, I think, mainly because the basic manning is too low in our care institutions. At least the Council of State can do something about it. My follow-up question will then be as follows: Will the Minister of Social Affairs intervene with the municipalities and ensure that part-time jobs of less than 50 pst are not allowed. in our care institutions? This case also has an important aspect of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1462	This is an employer's responsibility. It's for the municipalities. And it should also be in the interest of municipalities to avoid so many part-time jobs. I fully agree with Mr Alvheim that this is about both quality and continuity. What is important is that this type of small job must not prevent those who want it and can increase their part-time position. I repeat that this is an employer's responsibility. It belongs to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1471	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that the administration and recruitment of personnel and such things is a municipal responsibility. But it's my responsibility, and it's also the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs, these fractions, which result in unfortunate situations for patients and, in particular, the senile dementes, with laxity if you have to deal with more people than is strictly necessary. I am so serious about this that something has to be done as quickly as possible to stop this development, where we see averted positions down to 5 pst. Will the Council of State, if necessary, take the initiative to amend the law on this point so as to stop developments that have been taking place and that have become more extreme for each year that has passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1480	I want to bring this up with KS in the natural conversations that we have. In addition, we have the Employment Act Committee, which is also mandated to do so. I fully agree with Mr Alvheim's representative. My position is very clear: it should be the maximum possible part-time jobs and in most cases also full jobs, but it is the employers who have to take responsibility. But I also see another aspect and another angle. It goes on the recruitment situation, and there are many who want to work part-time, and who can only work part-time, and who would not have been working if this had not been possible. So it's a difficult, complex situation, but I'm completely in line with Alvheim in the overall problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1488	This question, from the representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1491	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The re-registration of the car at the State Road Service makes it impossible to pay the charge in cash or cards. The only thing that is accepted is the receipt stamped in the bank counter. Will the Council of State ensure that this bureaucratic and very cumbersome payment system can be made normal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1500	Unfortunately, it is only possible today to pay chargeable services with cash or cards at Staten road transport stations. As the representative Nistad says, the customer has to present the original receipt for the re-registration fee paid before re-registration can take place. The reason for this is that charges for a re-registration are to be directed towards the accounts of the Directorate of Customs and Taxation, while charges for services subject to charges are to be included in the accounts of the Road Administration of the State. The total re-registration fees for each year are significant and the Customs and Charges Directorate has set strict monitoring and tracking requirements. This must be maintained by any new payment scheme and a payment solution at the traffic station is not as curative as the apparent solution. I agree that this is too bad a solution. I would therefore like to contact the Minister of Finance and discuss with him how we can establish a more customer-friendly solution that is in line with the requirements of the customers, and at the same time is effective and rational for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1509	I thank you for the answer, and I am now happy that the Council of State will take up the swirled system that is today. People don't understand the system. When you can pay both test plates and driving licences, and there's a terminal next to the counter, it's incredible that people – and they don't have a car, because they have to register a car – will get a payroll card and have to go down to the center and go to the bank, and then they have to pay a high fee in the bank to get a stamp, so that they have to return to the Car Authority. This is too heavy. How long will it take for the Council of State, if any, to get a slightly more curative solution? It will also halve the number of expeditions to the Car Authority regarding the re-registration of the car. Today, each one has to enter twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1516	As it gets clarified here, this is a heavy-duty solution. It's a solution that we can't rely on in the long term, so as I said, I want to contact the Minister of Finance so that we can now look at how we can simplify this and make it more customer-friendly. We have to make sure that the system takes care of the other considerations, but I believe that with today's technology it is possible to find better and more customer-friendly solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1521	I have a little extra question. I think it is somewhat surprising that the Car Authority, when the legal tender is Norwegian coins and notes, does not accept Norwegian bills when a person is paying a fee. This I am very doubtful about the legality of. I am not sure of that, but perhaps the Council of State here can dement that Norwegian currency is not legal in terms of paying taxes in the event of a trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1526	There is, of course, a point that we should have legal systems and be able to use legal payment systems. A legal payment method is what we have to try to get, both legally and as simple as possible, with customer friendliness. We have to have a system that works in relation to the intent of the fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1534	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘More major airports such as Kjevik Airport, Stavanger Sola Airport and Flesland Airport have significant deficiencies, such as: in the case of safety, terminal construction and approach equipment. The Aviation Agency has done little to solve the problems. Could the Council of State consider investigating the possibility of releasing these airports as its own limited liability companies, so that they can use their own revenues to address the needs they themselves feel are most important to resolve?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1543	The Swedish Aviation Agency owns and operates 45 airports in Norway. Only a few of these are operated with profit. Stavanger airport, Sola, and Bergen airport, Flesland, are operated with significant profits. Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik, is also operated with profits, but this is relatively modest. As a general rule, the regular airfields including Oslo Airport Gardermoen shall be economically viable overall, while the State shall purchase services to help cover the deficit on the regional network. For 2003, a total of 250 million has been proposed. kr for this, which is a significant increase in relation to the previous period. In order to operate the overall airport system that the majority of the Stortinget has recently decided to maintain in its entirety, it is absolutely necessary to transfer funds from the profitable to the unprofitable main bus stops. If the profitable airports are decommissioned from the overall airport system, operations and investments at the other airports will not be resolved without significant appropriations in addition to the current purchases of services on the regional network. The Government recently submitted a proposal on the transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company from 1 January 2003, which the Stortinget is now dealing with. The proposal envisages a continuation of the current airport system, and it appears that the separation of some profitable airports from the entire State-owned airport network is not considered to be relevant at present. However, the transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company increases opportunities and increases the freedom to make profitable investments at airports that have not been carried out with the current organisation. I therefore believe that the proposal to transform into a limited liability company increases the development possibilities by, among other things. the airports developed by the representative Simonsen. I am in favour of the Swedish Aviation Agency cooperating with local business and local authorities in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1554	I just note that it still has to be such that passengers in Stavanger will subsidize air passengers in Vardø, for example, despite the fact that there are major deficiencies at their own airport. I don't think this is right and fair. I also think it is a little strange because you have a Minister of Labour and Administration who so often talks about not just the form of a limited company, but about exemption and efficiency in different sectors. The Council of State does not see that decommissioning airports could lead to less red tape, more efficient management and better use of money, because the decisions are taken by people who are very close to the problems and see where the needs are most precarious.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1559	No, I don't see this, because we have an airport network connected. It doesn't make sense to look at one airport alone. Because if you have one airport in this country, and say it's going well, it can't go well without having a network, that is. that people travel from A to B. They use the entire network of aerodromes. That's why this is closely related. So it's natural that in those places where we have large population concentrations, and thus many who travel, it's going to be a better profit. But the web is connected. And it will pose major challenges in relation to the state budget if the state is going to go in and buy additional services on a large scale, because we have to have the entire network to go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1566	If it is still to be the case that the Aviation Agency, whether it is a limited liability company or one, is to make the decisions, perhaps at least the need for the passengers who pay most of the bill should be taken into account. It is hardly possible that the Aviation Agency has done so. Stavanger has been waiting for years for a new terminal building. Does not the Council of State believe that it is at least a prerequisite that the need for the major airports and air passengers to have a system like this is also taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1573	There's a lot of needs in many airports. And if we don't meet the most precarious needs and implement the projects in time, the entire airline system will suffer. If we have places where conditions are so bad that people don't choose to leave, both Sola, Gardermoen and Flesland will lose it. In other words, we are served by the fact that at all times we have the best possible airport network around the country. Then it's also right, as the representative here points out, that we have to take into account those airports where there are many passengers, that we are facilitating conditions so that it's also attractive there to travel by plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1584	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘At Row 3 in Hedmark a large snowfall occurred at the end of October, resulting in many accidents of both large and small vehicles. Missing bridge must take a lot of the blame here, and it became even. spoke of the closure of the important voyage path as Rv 3 is. Can the Council of States confirm that the closure of Rv 3 is not forthcoming?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1593	On Wednesday, October 23, this year, a large amount of wet snow fell across the East, and the amount grew in more places than expected. In some places the amount of snow was so large that there were problems getting the snow away quickly enough. In a radio interview, the road manager in Hedmark presented the actions that had been carried out this day. She pointed out that in extreme weather conditions it could be appropriate to close down Rv 3 for a short time if it was not possible to offer road users acceptable and safe driving conditions. The state road service will do its utmost to ensure that this important north-south link is always open. I can further confirm that it is not appropriate to close highways that are to be open for winter without night closure, unless extreme weather conditions make road safety necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1600	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The council knows something about Rv 3, as she has apparently had the pleasure of being a passenger in a car combination, but it was probably on a little more dryer and better roads than at the end of October. What you could say about Rv3 is that about 90 pst. by the vehicle combinations, the Østerdalen chooses over the Gudbrand valley because it is shorter and thus more profitable, both economically and environmentally. Row 3 is also designated as the stuttering road, but only 9 pst. Rv 3 currently holds the adoptedradical code of 8,5 m in width. The road surface is uneven and worn out, and no special investments have been made in a series of years. It's also been a lot of accident. Then it is important that enough resources be deployed even in unexpected and large snowfalls. I don't want you to close the road. Such an important artery shall remain open. It's a lifesaver in District Norway. We're talking about district policy, so this is where the Council of State has to be ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1611	It is important to me that we have good conditions on all roads in Norway every day, and especially on the tribal roads. Now we're sometimes surprised by unexpected weather, and we're in the middle of such a period now. Then everyone can meet a challenge in getting on the roads. It is important that we have roads that are good in relation to the important function they should have, as well as row 3. It is quite right that there is a lot of heavy transport going on here, so for the business community in Norway, it is an important way. But we also have a responsibility to make sure that there are safe driving conditions. It is important, then, that we use the resources – and we do – to bridge and facilitate the situation. Then there may be cases where there is such an extreme situation – but then the situation has to be extreme – that we have to close the roads. It is my goal that we should always have good, safe and open tribal roads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1620	I thank you for your answer. That one is surprised by snowfall, is now so, but every winter this snow comes. It happens once a year that winter comes, and it did it at the end of October this year, perhaps to the great surprise of some, but not to any particular surprise of those who are using the road, and who live there. The truck stands for 95 pst. of goods transport, and 95 pst. the passenger transport takes place on the road in relation to the railway, and when Hedmark is the third largest country in the area, Hedmark must receive more money. We have 7.2 pst. by public roads, but only 3 pst. of the country’s road appropriations. We have 7.4 pst. Of the highways, but we get 4 pst. for operation and maintenance 1,6 pst. So the appropriations we get are not proportional to the lengths of the road. Among other things, the appropriations are not in proportion to the length of the road we have in our county. What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1629	The means for maintaining roads are distributed on the basis of some criteria that have been developed and are intended to ensure that we maintain a good and safe standard on the tribal roads. This is not just a question of money. It's about what you physically are able to do if it's suddenly a weather cover that makes it very difficult to get the bridge or secure the road properly. It is quite right that the snow comes at some point every year, and we have to be prepared for that. We must also be prepared, as far as possible, for it to come surprisingly and in large quantities. Then we'll be able to experience that even if we have enough resources, there may be physical constraints in relation to what we've actually got. But the goal is to have an open Rv3 as long as it's possible at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1639	I will be asked the following questions to the Council of Transport States: «Lastly, the focus is again on the knowledge and practicality of cargo securing. The State Road Service, which operates with controllers, reports that more than 90 pst. by those who are stopped have defective securing of the transport. This important area of training for drivers is deficient. Several training institutions say there is no lack of capacity, but it is not included in the syllabus. What will the Council of State do for us to have more capable carriers and safer cargo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1648	Verification of load securing is carried out on a sample of the vehicles and often on vehicles where the screener initially considers it necessary. This means that the control results do not provide a good average picture of the situation on the road network. The state road authority controls approx. 80000 vehicles with regard to load securing every year. In the first eight months of the year, a defect was reported at 20 p.m. by the vehicles checked, and 10 pst. was banned from driving. In other words, the figures do not support the statement that over 90 pst. have defects in the load securing. In addition, the State Road Service conducts regular load securing condition studies on a representative sample of the vehicle fleet. These studies showed in 2001 that 86 pst. of the vehicles had approved load securing. In the National Road Safety Action Plan 2002–2011, the Road Directorate has set the minimum target of 95 pst. all heavy duty vehicles must have an approved load securing system. The target should include, inter alia: to be achieved by increasing heavy transport checks carried out by the State Road Service by 50 pst. by 2003. The legislation clearly states that it is the responsibility of the driver to ensure that the goods are secured in such a way as not to cause damage or danger, towing on the road, falling off the vehicle or creating unnecessary noise. Nevertheless, two serious accidents this year have shown that road authorities have to follow up the area in particular. I would like to consider requiring heavy-duty drivers to receive mandatory load-resistance training in the context of the extensive change of driver training that is currently underway. The Directorate-General for Road Transport has also prepared a new driving test for a lorry with a trailer, where the theme of securing loads is to be included in both the practical and theoretical parts. The aim is to implement the tasks in winter 2002-2003. Until this work is completed, drivers are working to strengthen their knowledge of cargo securing, including: through cooperation between the Directorate of Roads and the Norwegian Lastebileier-Verbund, where NLF members are offered a course in securing cargo. The State School of Traffic Teachers, in cooperation with, inter alia: NLF, Armed Forces and Authorised Traffic Schools National Associations developed a course in securing cargo for traffic school personnel, employees of the State Road Administration, police and others working on cargo security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1659	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I thought she had a good approach to finding a solution. However, I would like to read a little from a court order that is of the kind after the new date, and that says in plain text what it is like today. It says about one who had received a driver card early in the 1990s: ‘Training was not focused on securing cargo. It was shown only to illustrations and little else to explain. Those weren't practical exercises. Securing cargo was included in the curriculum that applied then and until 1997, but it was not mandatory. Something else is still not.’ And it says that the training ‘variables from traffic schools to traffic schools’. Now we are in 2002. Everything in training is still the same at this point, and, as the Council of State said, the association, Norway's Lastebileier-Federal Association, has for many years met and wrote letters and requested that the Department and the Directorate of Roads could join a spice team just to get a good course of their members.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1673	It is quite right to point out that much can be done better in this area in relation to compulsory training and training. Clearly, the driver's responsibility lies with him. Anyone who drives a vehicle having the type of load shall be responsible for ensuring that the load is properly secured. It has also been found that there is a lack of knowledge of how to ensure such cargo. Therefore, it has been important to develop an offer of a price in securing cargo. We do now, but that's not enough, I mean. That's why we're now working on making the kind of course that I said instead mandatory, so that everyone has to acquire some knowledge, both practical and theoretical, about how this can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1680	I thank you for your answer. The Swedish have a good textbook in this area that many European countries benefit from. I wonder if it is also the basis for what is now to form the basis of Norwegian training. Then I wonder if it will now be such that we will prepare for a training course that we will have to do next time when the European Union comes up with its 2008 requirements. At least we have to work to ensure that the professional group of lorry drivers does not always become the scapegoat. There are many who can contribute in this context. As the industry has today, the small margins have both on ignition and on getting the good drivers. The challenges are great. I'm glad that the Council of State has the approach that it has to take, and I hope that now we're going to have a real zero vision, that something happens, instead of a zero vision where nothing happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1687	It's just the zero vision in the road safety area that makes me very concerned that we're going to get on with this question. I also record that the industry has been concerned about this. I see this as a strength, both in relation to the fact that it is an industry that has a lot of knowledge, a lot of experience, and in relation to the fact that they can make good constructive contributions with regard to the development of a mandatory course in securing cargo in the future. The question was whether this could be a solution to national-only training or whether it would also pursue international objectives: the aim for us must be to develop knowledge that keeps goals both internationally and nationally. To the extent that we have special Norwegian conditions that require special Norwegian knowledge, we also need to have it. We know that every winter we have challenges in connection with the winter weather. It may be a major challenge for us also in terms of securing cargo, and then we have to make sure that those who are going to drive these vehicles have knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1705	This question lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1713	This question, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for the Environment, will be raised by Mette Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1716	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The new agreement to regulate the collection of PCB-containing insulating routes opens up a practice that could lead to significant pollution. On this basis, the country’s only operational processing plant has rejected the contract text and has had to stop receiving PCB-containing routes. Will the State Council accept emissions for the collection and treatment of PCB-containing isolation routes in Norway, or does it see the need to resume the emission-free final treatment we have now had?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1725	The work on health and environmental hazardous chemicals, including PCBs, is among the top priority tasks of the Government's environmental protection policy. PCBs are one of the most dangerous pollutants in existence. The substance is concentrated in the food chain and may lead, inter alia, to: reproduction disorders, cancer hazard, compromised immune system and damage to the nervous system. Therefore, we have an ambitious national target to stop all PCB emissions by 2005. PCBs have been banned since 1980, but are available in older products. PCB-containing insulating glass panes are the largest remaining potential emission source. Although such windows are special waste, the collection has been very low. This was the background to the conclusion by the Ministry of the Environment of an agreement with the industry concerned in April this year. In the agreement, industry undertakes to ensure the collection and environmentally sound treatment of all PCB-containing insulating glass windows disposed of in Norway. A campaign to ensure increased collection of these windows in the summer resulted in more than 300 kilos of PCBs being delivered within two months. In comparison, 300 kilograms were collected throughout the year throughout the year. In order to implement the obligations of the agreements with the Ministry, the industry has established the company Ruteretur AS. Route AS does not collect and process the windows itself, but contracts with approved treatment facilities. There are currently two facilities approved in Norway for the treatment of PCB-containing insulating glass windows. Ruteretur AS wishes to enter into similar contracts with both of these installations. The agreement referred to in the question is a contract proposal the main purpose of which is to regulate the conditions for grants from Ruteretur AS. It is the pollution authorities that regulate, by means of the pollution law, the special waste regulation and the permits for reception facilities, how the PCBs-containing windows are to be treated in order to prevent emissions. The agreement referred to in the question is a contract between two private actors. However, the SFT has called Ruteretur AS to a meeting today to ensure that the PCBs-containing windows come to a proper treatment in line with the industry's commitment to the agreement with the Ministry of Environment and, where appropriate, to contribute to a solution between the parties. According to the information I have obtained, one of the processing plants in question does not wish to enter into a contract under the terms and conditions presented by Ruteretur AS. However, Route AS has entered into a contract with the other processing plant concerned. I find it unfortunate that not both of the installations in question have a contract with Ruteretur AS. As mentioned at the outset, this is an area in which the Government is strongly focused. I am very concerned that the zero emission target for PCBs should be achieved by 2005, and the environmental authorities will therefore follow the collection scheme closely in the future. I am so pleased that the industry has taken responsibility, and that they have started to establish a nationwide return system. I assume, of course, that the industry will fulfil its obligations under the voluntary agreement and will not, of course, accept the management of the waste resulting in PCB emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1746	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I feel that the agreement on which it was based has been successful, but the one company to which the Council of State refers has therefore sent out a notice of leave for all of its employees today. Since June this year, this company has collected 20,000 routes and handled 1 000 kilos of PCBs. This illustrates that the scheme, as it has worked up to now, has been good, but then this enterprise – many will claim this – is a poor solution. I heard the Council of State's response, but I still want to ask again: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the new scheme does not lead to greater emissions of PCBs in nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1755	After we got an agreement with our industry, we have a system in place that now actually collects the insulating glass window, which was used a lot in the 1960s and 1970s. Previously, it has been that once people have replaced these windows, they were just thrown into the landfill, deposited. In fact, this is contrary to the special waste regulation. We have created a campaign that has led to a sharp increase in the collection of PCB-containing insulating glass windows. We shall also ensure that this is done in the future. That's why we've allocated $12 million. kr to this agreement between the industry and the other actors. This PCB shall not be released as it has previously been. This is an important step in the right direction. What is at issue now is the negotiation of an agreement between Ruteretur AS and two actors. As I said, the SFT has had a conversation to clarify these questions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1762	Thank you again for your answer. We receive daily messages about job closures. Freedom is increasing. This is probably an example of a company that has put jobs at risk because of the Government. To all intents and purposes, these are jobs to protect the environment. How can the government let this happen? What will the Council of State do now in relation to this enterprise in order to secure these jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1769	I understand that the Workers' Party currently surrounds itself with a rhetoric in relation to company closures and in that context blames the Government. The working party on it. It's a very complex subject area. Once the Government has set up a policy to help collect more of PCB-containing insulating glass windows – which is also applicable to the company that may have sent out a notice of placement – I cannot understand that it will be less tasked. It's going to be more of a mission. But then that company is not satisfied, I understand, with an agreement that Ruteretur AS has designed. I have now asked the SFT to go through this to also look at the environmental aspects of it, also in relation to having two players in the market, which will always be an advantage, so you don't get into a monopoly situation. In this case, the government has contributed to something that is good for the environment, to collect more PCBs, and in addition it has created a market for Norwegian companies that will work on environmental development. So here the government's industrial policy is very good, also in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-13.ana.ud572e1785	There is no record.
