ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e30	I want to start by honestly admitting that this has been a difficult matter both for the Christian People's Party and for me. The Christian People's Party is engrossed in the principle of subsidiarity, in the rule of the people and in the fact that those who are set to make decisions will have loyalty downwards towards the people, not upwards towards a being, a directorate or even to the state. It has our excellent points of view. That's why the Christian People's Party fights against state control of our hospitals where people can no longer reach those who rule this important part of our health care system. It was governing our position last summer. We have, I think, also dealt with in the Sem statement, in spite of the changes that this case presents. That in addition, in the Sem Declaration, we aim to contribute to a reduction in bureaucracy is in good tradition from the central government's vision of a simpler Norway. The principle of subsidiarity is important when agriculture and environmental tasks are now being moved to municipalities. It's at municipal level that these tasks should be solved. This is also how we take care of the elected government, which works well in our municipalities. I think the municipalities can also deal with BU funds, building development funds, in a satisfactory way. However, the reconciliation will determine whether they are moved or not, or whether they are at SND. Could the county have done this job? Of course. I have great faith in the county council as a regional development actor. The region could carry out both agricultural and environmental interests in an exceptional way. But the municipalities are even closer to those who will live by the decisions. There is a solid majority in the Committee which agrees that the county should be strengthened as a regional development actor. The intention is that the county should be an important partner for business, municipalities and the external state. The formation of the county council in relation to the administration of regional and regional policy instruments also ends with a broad majority. In fact, it is only the Progress Party that will completely reduce the regionally elected level. Getting enough and right skills for business to expand and innovation is a challenge in all parts of the country. The county will play a very central role here. The government's modernisation policy also means increased delegation and decentralisation. Flexibility and less regulation mean increasing the freedom and scope of action of the county in sectors such as culture for which they are responsible, transport, public health and, of course, education. Regional states will also be freed, and it believes the Christian People's Party will create opportunities for an exciting partnership at regional level. Upland County Municipality's project "Freite Forward" is an example of how a person can create enthusiasm and action. The scheme is open for testing. It's positive. It is important that the merging county councils retain the efficiency gain if it is to exist. Most revolutionary is well tried by unit states. The fact that the regional state is integrated with the regionally elected level seems to me to be exciting and challenging. The result will be a more transparent and comprehensible region for meinigmann. The integration of county councils, county councils, State Education Offices and county councils must entail simplification. It must also be possible to separate control and supervision from the many tasks of discretion, and to include the last ones under public governance. This is a possibility of democratisation. The government wants to keep the county agricultural board informed. In order not to arise a vague situation, the Right and Christian People's Party draw their minority proposal, proposal No. 2, and we shall be satisfied to vote against the proposal for Decision III. My recommendation to the Christian People's Party is to vote for you and against other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e60	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e63	Last year, the representative Anita Apelthun Säle of the Municipal Committee countered the right and the Progress Party’s view on the regionally elected level. The Christian People's Party voted in June 2001 to give the county councils new tasks. Today, the Christian People's Party representative argues for a controlled liquidation of the same county municipality. It layers it with the Right Party and the Progress Party. The settlement of the county municipality is updated, writes Christian People's Party and Apelthun Seele in a note in the setting. Then I ask the question: what kind of thoughts does Apelthun's representative sell after having undergone such a change of heart?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e70	There are many tanks, and a lot of water runs in the ocean in a year. The Sem Declaration has created cooperative relationships where it is not primarily the Christian People's Party that has changed its mind, but actually the Right, in this matter. But it's a cooperation, and that's why there's also changes. The representative Sandal says we're going in for a guided winding-up. I don't see it that way. Also, the majority, including the Labour Party, write both in the decision and in a note that they want to ‘a model that creates real partnerships between the counties and different state actors, where the parties participate in commitments in different regional development projects’. That's exactly what we're going to create, and I actually think we're going to be able to create. Then the representative of the Workers' Party says that the closure of the county municipality has been updated. Yes, as a result of the Workers' Party transferring hospitals to the state, it is updated, but we do not conclude so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e86	The representative Apelthun Seele strongly argues for the principle of subsidiarity, that decisions should be taken as close to the user as possible. Then my challenge will be to the representative: What confidence and confidence does she have in the elected representatives at municipal or primary level in relation to it? Does not Apelthun Seele see any possibility for the municipalities to be strengthened, if necessary, by inter-municipal cooperation, bundling, and that they can co-operate with the regional development work that Apelthun Seele now wants the county council to operate? Isn't the grips we're now doing in relation to the county council, just a further sweeping of the county council and the employees who are going to push this forward? Or is it simply to maintain the elected bodies of state politicians, regardless of what is best for the inhabitants of each region?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e93	Yes, I believe in the principle of subsidiarity. I believe that the elected representatives will be in charge of the direction and direction of our society, and that one should not leave it to officials or the directorate or the being or what one would now call it. I believe that the people who are elected should have their hands on the wheel when we control social development. Then there are things too big for the local level. I want to say that continuing schooling is actually such a thing. It is not possible that each municipality has its secondary school, and it is not possible that each municipality has a full supply within the secondary school for all its elephants. Then the bigger regions are needed. Of course, intermunicipal cooperation is involved, and of course it will occur, because it is natural. But it will be much more natural and tidy to take a slightly larger area and say that this is the natural region where there is intermunicipal cooperation between many municipalities, that is, the county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e105	I do not believe that this is a managed liquidation. I believe that this is a bad course towards the safe death of the county council, on which the Christian People's Party has cast itself. I want to ask a very, very simple question to Anita Apelthun Seele. She says there's great regional development, etc. But if you look at the county council in this St.meld. No So 19 who develop regionally, it is cut in the budgets of the regional development potential of the counties. You move the environmental and agricultural department, either to the state or to the municipality. There is no possibility of strengthening the county as a planning body at the level of the county. It opens up the possibility of decentralisation of child protection, and there are projects of decentralisation to municipalities, similar for drug care and also for secondary schools. Then there is family protection and dentistry that are largely left. Then I would like to ask: can Anita Apelthun Seele point to one single thing in this document that strengthens the county council as a regional developer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e114	I wanted to site Piet Hein, for he says: "The Pessimists did the purest fools – they believe in the opposite of what they hope.No, the optimists, who live on, dare hope for something they believe in." In fact, I believe that one should be able to create a state that acts as a regional development actor, because we need it as a regional development actor. I believe in all the moments of freedom that have been included in this matter, as well as the tasks that the county council has had and will still have. I think you can manage to create a sweet development of society by investing in this. We need the county because we need someone who increases value creation, someone who provides stable labour, someone who provides a varied labour market, good services and growth-intensive regions, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e149	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e152	When the Stortinge last year discussed the division of tasks between state, state and municipality, it was with the state takeover of hospitals as a back carpet. This year the debate has been obscured by the Right's clear desire to remove the county council as a level of government and the equally open desire to remove a number of municipalities and thus weaken local democracy. Hardly any theme has been so thoroughly analysed and distributed as just the division of tasks and the regional level of administration. Public disclosures and research reports emphatically state that the third level of governance and policy should be maintained. The centre party also means it. We want to underline that well-chosen words are not enough. If the inhabitants are to experience the county that carries out important services, the majority in this room must be willing to set up with the necessary means, cf. the revision of the national budget and the Government's lack of willingness to provide a sound and tidy hospital settlement. The central party is committed to the principles that we have developed in ours. The county councils have important tasks – before continuing schooling, before transportation, before culture and before regional development. Municipalities shall take over tasks that require political understanding at regional level, including planning and other tasks that require political interaction and partnership between state, state and municipality. We mean that the county should have authority to decide on matters that have consequences for the whole state or for several municipalities. We believe that there is another and more equivalent form of cooperation than that the county council has its authority over the municipalities. We don't see this threat of over-communities as the government party here is trying to paint on the wall. On the contrary, studies show that the municipalities have no objection to the close interaction that has already been tested in some municipalities. We want the regional environmental and agricultural tasks to lie with the county, with the exception of complaints and law enforcement, for which the county is to be responsible. The centre party is very pleased with today’s decision that the rights of the company’s building development resources are being maintained by the SND. It's a system that's worked for two years, and it's got a lot of support. We think this will be an important contribution to the interplay of regional development which, in our view, should be between municipalities, county councils and different state actors. The government's proposal would give an unfortunate breakdown and an increased bureaucracy. Reidar Sandal has done the right thing for our common no to try out municipal responsibility for further education. In my county, Rogaland, we have seen how important the county council is in relation to the health assessment that must be at the bottom when it comes to the provision of training. Such schools as Sauda, Ryggabø and Dalane have had the opportunity to develop into viable training centres with great ringing effects both for other education and for business. We from the Center Party would like to see new tasks transferred from the state to the county councils. We don't understand that the government couldn't be so creative that she saw both at Aetat, at the adult training, at the competence reform and also more about transportation in connection with it. Then there are certain initiatives from different county councils when it comes to county councils. We're going in for these trials. We want a clarification in relation to the uncertainty that now has to be about how to apply these attempts. We think that there should be real coordination, and if a few are to reduce and simplify red tape, then we should try more rigorously than has been reported so far. We are surprised at the Christian People's Party, a party that we were close to both last year and before, and the reverse operation that they have now performed. They may, for example: not agree to require county councils to take over tasks that require political understanding at regional level, including tasks requiring political interaction and partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e177	The Workers' Party and SV ask the Government to carry out experiments with larger counties, counties that may be delegated authority over industrial policy, district policy, transport policy, competence development, overall land policy and cultural and labour market policies. Here are many exciting solutions that could have emerged. And I'm familiar with the fact that there are several central party rapporteurs who want such experiments. This can bring more democracy, and decisions come closer to the user. Then my question is, why isn't the Central Party involved in this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e182	In the Center Party we have followed these recordings that Signe Eye no mentions, with great interest. It's quite right, as she says, that we have executives and other elected representatives at state level who have been central in these processes. We're still a little surprised that the Workers' Party is stressing this so much right now, because that's actually the way it is, according to the Municipal Report as late as June 6th this year, that these processes are waiting around in the different counties. Then we don't want to overdo what these cooperating states around – whether we're talking about indigenous states or states in the West – have now found out for themselves. Rather, they will focus more on cross-state cooperation, rather than going to county border resolution. That is why we are not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e189	The centre party believes that the regional environmental and agricultural tasks should be with the county council, while the judicial review and legal review should remain with the county council. In this note, the party is concerned about the double work and the unnecessary amount of bureaucracy a decentralisation to the municipality will mean. My question to the Central Party is: is the party here the most concerned about how agriculture will be treated if the municipalities get too much to say, or is the party the most concerned about the county community otherwise getting a little rusty with? Or is it really such that the Central Party does not take the risk that the municipalities, which they hold in most other contexts, have the necessary competence and ability to take responsibility for the efficient and rational handling of agricultural matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e196	In the context of the municipal proposition, Hogsnes can read that the Centre Party has a strong commitment to the existence of outstanding agricultural competence in the individual municipality. He can also read in this setting that there are tasks within both agriculture and the environment that the Centre wants to decentralize to the municipalities. At the same time, we believe that these are certain tasks which clearly relate to inter-municipal themes, where it is important for the county to be responsible. It applies to both agriculture and the environment. Then there's a special discussion about the building development funds. For us, it is crucial that they can be used from region to region, and that SND there is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e203	In the configuration of the Task Distribution Committee, fewer counties were proposed in our country. It was proposed between 10 and 15 counties. This was something that the Center Party at that time joined. Where the SV and the Workers' Party have jointly made a proposal to ensure that the States which so wish are able to test projects where they merge the counties, on the basis of which they are to assume more State tasks, the Centre Party does not support this. I am sure that the Central Party is a supporter of a third regional level as a driving force, because it is important for democracy. My question is, what kind of visions does the Center Party have about how to strengthen the third level, if you don't want to do it the way the Workers' Party and SV suggest here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e212	I am very happy that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are mainly in this setting. I am all the more surprised that the Christian People's Party has departed from its former positions. So we don't get multiples in this room to just strengthen the regional level with more tasks. In the previous round, a year ago, we pointed to this possibility when it came to parts of Aetat's activity, the reform of competences and important tasks in the field of transport. We have to come back to this when we see the Government's assessment when it applies to both the drug field, child protection and many other areas. I do not understand that strengthening the regional level with several tasks will depend on changing the county boundaries. Once the county authorities themselves have put such changes on hold, we don't have any particular interest in pushing it. But we want to strengthen the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e222	Public tasks should be resolved almost possible users. With this in mind, the Government takes important steps for the decentralisation and strengthening of local democracy. At the same time, efforts are being made to clarify the tasks of the regional management level in a positive way. This is the landscape of possibilities. Left takes a considerable distance from the claims that this is an undermining of county councils or a start to a requested process of closure. On the contrary, there are now lines below what is the main basis for a popular regional level, namely the need for coordination, cooperation and planning within transparent and natural regions and the solution of tasks that the municipalities individually are too small to solve, because they need to be seen in a larger geographical context. There is no point in having a regional level to solve tasks like others, especially lower levels, can be better or just as good. The left was against hospital regulation, but not to keep tasks at state level. The fact that other tasks are subsequently moved down to the municipality level is positive. The most appropriate task to be placed in the state must be that it can best be solved there. Therefore, we are not impressed by the fact that they have lost tasks from individual state politicians. On the contrary, we need state politicians and parties who are now taking on the new challenges and developing the role of regional development actors. If the county councils can't do this, there's really reason to ask if this has any future. Left thinks so. We won – together with the Christian People's Party – in the Sem Declaration to maintain a regionally elected level. This is the government's policy, and we believe in the future will show that there is a need for a link between the state and the municipality. In reality, something else will mean large-scale centralisation, because so many coordination tasks and decisions need to be moved to state level. For the Left, it is important to distinguish between executive policies on the one hand and typical governmental tasks such as supervision, control and approval on the other. This is what the Government has done in its setup. It also applies to the plans for trials with unit states. This is another great possibility for the regional level. The coordination of resources can provide a more efficient and less bureaucratic level of management. Today, municipalities do much of the job in environmental and agricultural matters. They just can't make the decisions, and we think it makes sense that they get it too. Transfer of these tasks is decentralization and democratisation – very positive! It will also be if the BU funds are managed by the municipalities, and we regret that there does not seem to be any plurality for it today. The development of local democracy and governance is a dynamic process, and it should not stop what is being handled today. In the view of the Left, municipalities and county councils should look after new tasks they can take on and solve better than what is being done today, at a higher level of administration. I would like to point out to the Left that the reforms that are currently being undertaken will lead to a development that will make it less topical with large regional groups. The democratic legitimacy problems that the county councils have will not be smaller with an even larger and more distant unit. We've been on trial with a group of people, and we believe it's the way you can go to strengthen an important popular regional level for the future. This requires our state politicians to meet the challenges. We have faith that they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e241	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e244	I am constantly amazed at the slightly arrogant tone I think the Left takes in relation to local politicians. Before today, it was about municipal politicians and the local economy, now it is about state politicians and what they have to think. First, the representative Vihovde says that she is tired of the coup d'état of state politicians who would like to do the job that Stortinget has actually ordered them to do. When they point out what they think is meaningful, and what they think they can do in a better way than us, they're told they don't have it. But now that the Left has decided what to do, they will be told that they will have to find something new. I wonder what the Left really thinks these state politicians are going to be allowed to figure out. I also want to ask: if it was the case that the Left also opposed the hospital reform, but did not mean that the hospitals were to be run by the county councils, who would then drive them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e257	First of all, I believe that the representative Karin Andersen has misunderstood me. The left was against the government taking over hospitals, but the left believed that hospitals should be a task for the county councils. But this was not the case, and then we also see that there are a number of tasks that naturally relate to hospitals and health services, which have to be moved in the long term. But I actually mean that in the situation in which the county councils have come, by the fact that they have lost some tasks, our state politicians have to look at what tasks they can do better than the state. We want to move tasks down, maybe from the state level. First, we need to see if your local authorities are able to solve these problems, because we want them to be near their users. We take a positive view of the possibilities of the states, but we call for some creativity from the state politicians to see the possibilities for the county to be a regional development operator and to see the possibilities that need to lie in both the infrastructure and the planning tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e264	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e267	The starting point for the Government’s work on the follow-up to the task allocation has been the Government’s modernisation work in relation to the public sector. The starting point for this work is the principle of delegation and decentralisation of responsibilities and powers, and that decisions should be taken as close as possible to those relating to them. With regard to the issues we are discussing today, the Sem Declaration has also provided a basis for the principles implemented by the Government on the basis of an evaluation of the decision taken last year. When the representative Reidar Sandal says that what we are saying about regional development structure is diffuse, I would like to say that you have to go back to last year's message and see if not what was said last year was something more diffuse. What we've been trying to do is go through this to look at the practical implementation – what to do in the various parts of the public enterprise that it was proposed to move on, and find the principles we can measure against, namely whether you get an over-municipality, or whether there's more bureaucracy. I think perhaps that the assessment we have made of pragmatically looking at what the Department of Agriculture actually does, and what the Department of the Environment actually does, as principles of whether they should be moved to the county councils or whether there were other and better ways to solve it, has shown that last year the county authorities' need for tasks has been taken more into account rather than based on what the Government agreed to, namely, a division of tasks that can create good solutions for users, through decisions on an effective way to solve the problems. That, I think, is a different starting point from what I thought was the main part of this debate, namely how to organise the public sector at the lowest possible cost, but in the most effective way and in the best possible way for users. Instead, I think I've heard a lot of articles about what we're going to do, and how we're going to ensure county council tasks. I believe that if the county has an entitlement, it will also show its justification for the tasks that the government is now adding to the county council. We have put a real point of view on the question of becoming a regional development operator by providing instruments, which the government of Stoltenberg did not define last year, by decentralising instruments that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs currently has in district and regional policy, to the county municipalities. It provides a forum for state policymakers to see if they can manage through the partnership thinking to ensure that these instruments are used and provide a basis for the county council as a regional development actor. Not all responses are given in these contexts by the Storting or in the form of decisions in this Chamber. Equally many of these answers are given in relation to how state policies actually exercise their own role and use the space they have received through the decisions we are making today. And then we've said, and that's a pretty important point in the things we've been raising, that we want to try to find better solutions and models for the regional level, and not least for the services that are still at the county level and at the state level, and to find better solutions for the users. It is not that we have not considered the issue of law enforcement. Excuse me, but we're actually doing a job in the department offices, too, on the basis of the principles we have. Of course, we have problematised the conditions that Heikki Holmås took up in an article here earlier related to legality control and control systems. It's quite clear in the message, on page 47, that we're just having a problem with this experiment, and we're saying that these are areas where, when we're going through the trials in detail, we need to find practical solutions. That's why we've also said that we're open to county councils that want to participate in these trials being involved in designing different types of unit groups, with different types of governance models. But we have to ensure that the law enforcement, the role-sharing, is maintained. It is not the case that state politicians are allowed to control themselves. Nor shall they be allowed to control the primary municipalities in relation to the control bodies. We must ensure that this remains under the responsibility of the state, not at the political level. I think we're giving the municipalities good new tasks in what we're doing here, which will make them feel more responsible, but also more able to tackle important tasks that will enrich local democracy both in the environment and in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e281	There is little doubt that the arrangement presented today by the Council of State implies that the county councils are weakened in relation to the work they would have had with the scheme of the Stortingen joining last spring. The government is to maintain the county municipality, the government's policy weakens the foundations of the county municipality. Secondly, the Council of State has previously expressed sympathy for a smaller number of municipalities. It's not the government's policy. But is not the result of a policy that considers transferring more tasks from the county sector to the municipal sector, that one has a drive towards fewer and larger municipalities, because the larger municipalities will be able to carry out a larger range of tasks than the smaller municipalities – i.e., almost like what is being discussed in the EU, two different phases, but where, in reality, those who are able to take on the new tasks will have the greatest potential for development? In short, is not the reality that the Council of State here is formally behind a policy in the Government where the county municipality is to be maintained, and where one does not change the municipal structure, while, in fact, a policy that weakens the county municipality and will gradually be a pressure towards changes in the municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e288	So I only have one agenda on these issues of public sector organisation, and that is to create a better public sector for users. I think in many ways that all the discussions with the angles of incidence that are about structure and organization and do not focus on the users are going to be a little bit weird. I also believe that this has an important element of democracy. If the public sector does not function in terms of transparency in terms of democracy, it will not be a better democracy either. What we are doing here, in my opinion, is giving the county council clear role tasks that no one else has, which are primarily the tasks of the county council, by decentralising part of the decisions on the role of regional development operator. With regard to the issue of fewer municipalities, it is interesting that the Workers' Party takes it up. The Labour Party is the only party here on Stortinget that is not for volunteering, and that would like to redraw the map and all that. My starting point is that the municipal structure should also result from the fact that we can provide good task solutions for the user services. You can do that in cooperation, or you can do it through association.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e297	The fact that the county is involved in regional development is nothing new. Based on the debate today and the position on this issue, it seems that the county council is now going to become a new development actor. Professor Tor Selstad writes in Dagbladet on 11 June: ‘The optimists claim that when the county receives responsibility for the regional policy instruments, then county planning is no longer ‘to rest without veins’.’ My first question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State share that impression? And if it is now that the years have come into place in the county council, does this not simply lead to the county council developing into an overcommunal? And when the county now has oars, does the council intend that these years should grow more and more and more, so that the county takes over the whole role of the primary municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e307	No, I have not thought that the years should grow larger and larger, and that the county councils should therefore take over the role of primary municipalities. That's exactly the opposite we've been trying to make sure, by measuring all of these changes that were going to happen in relation to the division of tasks, based on the desire that we don't have any over-communities. I think that the assessments of the role this plays in the planning of the state bear the same profile, that the only way in which a task can be carried out in this society is through the exercise of authority defined by law and by roles. What we're trying to say is that no, that's not the role the county council should have in the future. It's a partnership role. It is a role where, when allocating funds, you can engage in constructive cooperation with other actors who are willing to cooperate, not because you are in the hands of the law – with the planning and building law or other laws – and say that you should do this. This is in order for the county to be able to say: we can contribute to constructive cooperation, and we would like to contribute in a planning area to solve them and those tasks in society. That's exactly why we think this is going to be something other than just linking it to spatial planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e314	If we roll back a little bit to the time before the Sem declaration, the Right was a party that would clearly and strongly put down the county council and let the municipalities take over, among other things. the task of secondary school. Then comes the Sem declaration, and the Right is not allowed to put down the county council during this period, but has to wait until the next major election period before that happens. But what does the Council of State do? Well, first of all, she makes sure that the county economy is so miserable that high school is hit hard, and this clearly goes beyond the school offer given. And the debt remains in the county municipalities after the hospitals. In addition, it is signaled that municipalities are going to take over high school, although an overall education Norway is against and the users, as it is so nice to talk about, are against. Then my question is, can the Council of State decide whether she wants to postpone high school to the municipalities, and in that case make some good arguments for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e319	The Council of State may stress that the Government does not intend to transfer secondary schools to the primary municipalities. It would have been nice if you had read what is in the message here. Here it is very clear that the core areas of the county community do not want to be subjected to any particular trials, and high school is, in my opinion, as the county community is today, a core area. But we are very open to the fact that there are a few places out of a pedagogical mindset that there might be thoughts of seeing the entire elementary school cycle in connection with the secondary school, and I really think it would be stupid for Norwegian school if we were bombastic and from this discussion could not allow a little experiment with this, for example. in relation to one municipality, a couple of secondary schools or other. I actually think that when we get that far, many county councils will also see that it is a point, and that it will be something to which we can contribute and stimulate, because it can be a new development in the future way of organizing schools based on pedagogical thinking. [[President clubs]] All of our attempts should be based on the fact that they can provide us with better services, not just that others can solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e329	Let there be no doubt about the intentions of the majority and the minority here. We're all probably on our own premises concerned that it's the users' concerns that should be superior. I mean then there is reason to ask questions in relation to the Council of State saying underline this precisely when it suggests changes in two areas that are currently working very well. There's one thing about this system of building development funds that SND has been dealing with for two years, and that users are actually very interested in getting where they are. The other thing that I want to do is to extend it more than in the previous line, is to look at the further slides. Why create this insecurity? It also applies to all these expectations that it has created with the signals it has given so far, to large city councils to take over a superior role in relation to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e334	Let me say a few words first about the urban development funds. The argument that we wanted to transfer the responsibility for the rural development funds from the SND to the municipalities was that we wanted the responsibility to be laid closer to the applicant. BU funds are local. No regional solutions are to be found using the BU funds, and therefore it seemed natural that they should be added to a local level, as they should contribute to local agricultural and industrial development. We thought it would give less bureaucracy, because the municipalities are already doing a large part of the job of handling the applications today. So from a bureaucratic point of view, we thought it was right. We also have good experience in attempts at inter-municipal management of BU funds in two regions, Oppland–Valdres and the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen. They have convinced us that it was actually a good idea with closeness to the users, but at the same time at a level that made it not just one candidate for the pot, but that it was a big enough upland. We therefore believed that it was possible to make good use of that money more closely within the framework of local democracy, and that this was a good way to organise this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e341	The government thinks there should be a series of trials. In this way, you can gain experience and gain new insight. Governments also want extensive inter-municipal cooperation to be pursued, as well as a desire to change the structures of our municipalities. The Government Party opposes attempts by major states to delegate governance in the areas of regional and strategic development. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has also shown no commitment to this type of regional approach. Therefore, I would like to ask the following questions: Is the Council of State concerned that this could result in aggregation, which could be vitalising the regionally elected level?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e350	It's not like we're afraid of regional cooperation or a regional merger. On the other hand, we have expanded some of the terms in the task notice. We have said that there can be many intermediate ways in relation to full aggregation, and that we should stimulate and look at interpersonal cooperation in the same way that we have intercommunal cooperation, among other things. Because we get the impression that when we follow the debate around the country, there are many people who think that a full aggregation is a very long step to take, and who therefore want other variants on the road. We have also said that it is possible for the county councils to have experiments in some of the areas, but we have not signaled any individual areas for this type of experiment. We have said that the recordings must come from the county councils and from the municipalities in relation to task differentiation. I see some areas that might be possible. Uppland and Hedmark County Councils have already submitted an application relating to some areas for which the State is responsible, and which I have also responded positively to in the Questionnaire in Stortinget. But we have to figure out a framework around these trials that does not require much more money than what is being spent in these areas today, and does not give completely different rights to what people have in the areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e359	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e377	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur and 3 minutes to the other speakers. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no replication. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e384	It is the intention of a comprehensive list of cases which makes it necessary for the Committee to make only one main contribution to this matter. I find reason to say that in the introduction, because there is no doubt that in Document No. 8:132 The Coastal Party addresses a very important question, namely the difference in costs that we currently have in transport industries in the northernmost counties compared with Sweden and Finland. The Committee agrees that transport costs and distance constraints are a very large cost item for industry in the districts, and the northernmost states have very special challenges both in terms of distance costs and climatic conditions. This applies both to producer enterprises and to the transport industry. The Committee therefore considers it necessary to refer to the current system of differentiated pay for employers, approved by ESA until 31 December 2003, and approved as an indirect transport aid. Of many, this differentiated employer fee is considered to be the most important regional policy instrument. However, the scheme was accepted by ESA because Norway was able to demonstrate that the business community has transport costs that exceed the benefits of reducing the employer’s pay. We are now aware that the Government has an assessment of how they will meet ESA's further requirements in this area. We feel that it is necessary to stress from the whole Committee: Differentiated pay for employers is a very important food and district policy tool, and it is absolutely crucial for business and the construction that the Government prioritises a strong effort to keep this system up to date even after 2003. This is previously underlined when processing an own document. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:32 for 2000–2001, in Stortinget. This differentiated employer fee helps to ensure the framework conditions for both production companies, transport companies and other enterprises. In some cases, the Committee sees it as a better tool for business to maintain such a system rather than a transport aid scheme. For this reason, there is a number of points in the Committee that the Government should carry out a thorough review of the framework for business in the districts, including transport companies. The people behind it are the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. We believe that there must be an important part of the Government's preparation for work in order to maintain the differentiated employer fee even after 2003. Nor do we hide the fact that the reduced efforts, on which the Government has received separate reactions in the 2002 budget, also make such a review necessary. So the Labour Party and SV find it necessary to present an own minority proposal, asking for a review of the practice of the regional transport aid, and under this also to assess whether it should be State-owned. It's in line with the comments that these two parties had in the budget-inner. S. No 5th@item: inlistbox The Right Party and the Christian People's Party refer to the Effectiveness Selection, which looks at the impact of the various instruments of regional and regional policy, and at this stage does not want to place any special emphasis on the use of specific schemes directed towards the transport industry. I think I've done some good things for the different parties. The setting is that the Stortinget asks the Government to carry out a thorough review of the framework for business in the districts, under this also by the transport companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e403	It is a pleasure that the Municipal Committee has given this matter such serious and constructive treatment as is seen here. The reason why the signatory has promoted this proposal is that distance disadvantages are often a determining factor for the existence of some rural enterprises where profit margins are often marginal. In addition, when it is felt that neighbouring countries have significantly better arrangements, it is impossible to compete with them, because the EU has such favourable support schemes for transport aid, among others. North Sweden. The national aid amount in Sweden was 345 million in 2001. kr. In Norway, only the county of Nordland provides transport aid, which for 2001 amounted to 5 million. kr. In Sweden, the carrier is granted a full grant to the recipient, even if the recipient is in Norway. We don't get that in Norway. In addition, the Swedish transport aid scheme is calculated on a much more favourable basis than the scheme currently in North Norway. The Norwegian transport aid scheme depends on the priorities of the counties because it is not earmarked. The aid scheme has been gradually reduced and removed over the years since it became part of the framework grant, as I have described in the proposal. This appears to be unfortunate and therefore supports the proposal of the Workers' Party and the SV for a review of the practice of the regional transport aid scheme. The undersigned considers that a differentiated employer’s fee is an important regional policy instrument. There are studies and estimates that the differentiated employer’s fee is very close to the distribution of transport aid to the Swedish and Finnish transport industries. Therefore, it is important to provide for better framework conditions for those with a distance-disadvantage as a negative competitive relationship with competitors. It is therefore gratifying to note that the majority of the Committee has considered the issues in the proposal to be so important and serious that it is requested that the Government carry out a thorough review of the framework conditions for industry in the districts, including transport companies. This must mean adapting not only to the EU where you have disadvantages but also where you can get benefits. It is therefore strange that ESA has not registered this distortion of competition between the EEA country of Norway and Sweden, which is part of the EU. You're very quick to react when it's the opposite. Against this background, it must be expected that the Government will make an in-depth assessment for the harvest, so that the necessary steps will be taken as soon as possible to remedy the competitive disadvantages of the businesses in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e422	I refer to the Workers' Party's comments in the setting, and take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e427	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has addressed the proposal to which he referred. No more have asked for the floor on case No 3. [[See page 3528]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e444	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur and 3 minutes to the other speakers. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no replication. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e451	First, I want to correct a bug in the configuration. On page 2 of the second column in the middle of the page, it says: «The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre promote the following proposal:...» Inner. S. No 270 on a better housing aid scheme is a proposal by the representatives of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Ola D. Glötvold. The proposal involves several changes to the current housing aid scheme: adjust income limits so that several may be included in the scheme to reduce housing aid by increasing income, so that the basket does not include single-person households in the housing support scheme in addition to those with social assistance as the only income source over time In addition, the following points have been raised during the Committee's proceedings, which will also be examined, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t the removal of the requirement that the dwelling should have a loan in the Husbank as a condition for obtaining the housing aid if the housing aid scheme is to be divided into two, one in the case of pensioners and one in the case of families with children and one in the case of other beneficiaries of the housing aid, the assessment of monthly payments of the housing aid; The Committee is aware that the set-up housing committee has come to an end – NOW 2002:2 – and that, on this basis, the government will come to the Stortinget with a comprehensive housing announcement in the autumn of 2003. This means treatment in 2004 and that its effects will only come from 2005. It's a long time. A majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, which is a minority in the Chamber, believe that after a long-term debate on poverty reduction, where housing support is one instrument – a targeted and accurate instrument that is all the reason for further development – it must be possible to deal with housing aid separately and before the Government proposes, with effect only from 2005. And it's urgent to get better housing support schemes for those involved, so that the boutes don't take most of the income – as we see with today's high housing prices – and you get even less money for other expenses. The Party, SV and the Centre therefore consider that it is fully possible to deal with housing aid separately and proposes that the 2003 budget provides for a review of housing aid with subsequent changes embedded in the budget. It will mean changes that will take effect from 1 January 2003. That would be good. But we don't seem to get a majority for this. It will not be the government parties, and it will not be the Progress Party. The Progress Party is constantly talking about their care and concern for the weakest, for the pensioners – and there are many pensioners who come under housing support rules. But when the Storting can do anything, no, then there's not much urgency anyway. They then have time to wait, yes wait several years before positive changes can be adopted and implemented. It's amazing, but it turns out to be time and time again. The representative Torbjørn Andersen says from this pulpit today: ‘In the case of priority for the poor, the Progress Party shall be the largest guarantor of the provision of good welfare offers and offers for those groups in Norway that do not have as many resources as other groups.’ Those who get housing support are just such a group, but then you don't want to be part of it. Then also the credibility of such statements becomes beyond zero. The Labour Party will also refer to the proposal we have made on housing measures for young people and disadvantaged people, which is being discussed in the Stortinget and which contains several proposals for improvements to housing support. It is impossible at this short time to address the individual proposals for improvements requested by a majority of the Committee in a comprehensive review of the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e502	One of the areas of cooperation governance is the fight against poverty. There are few in this room who disagree with the importance of. For 2000, 110 000 households received housing aid once or more. Of those who received the housing allowance, 60 said pst. that it is absolutely essential. That's how far we all agree. The disagreement begins when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will enter what they themselves have called orders in the 2003 budget. They want that at the same time as the Government will present a poverty report to the Storting for the autumn, this year. In the poverty message, housing support will be one of the themes addressed. In addition, the housing notification will be promoted for Stortinget in the autumn of 2003. This notification will include a full review of the entire housing aid scheme. The housing aid is such an important scheme that it cannot be taken out of context. It is only in the above notification that the housing aid will have to and must have the thorough review of the scheme. It will be through links to poverty and housing issues that housing support is addressed in its proper context. I therefore mention the minority's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e515	Peter Gitmark has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e518	I would strongly reject the criticism of the Advancement Party that has come to this matter, and I would like to point out that we are in a majority opinion where it states that: «The Government has notified an own-account housing notification in 2003 following the suspension of the Housing Committee... In this Communication, the Government is asked to carry out a full review of the housing aid scheme with a view to assessing the structure and legislation of the scheme, whether groups other than today should be included in the scheme and to assess how the scheme can be made even more effective». It is therefore ‘not appropriate to review the housing aid also in the 2003 State budget’, as stated by the minority. The Progress Party will therefore await a debate on housing aid when the time comes, and so the government parties, together with the Progress Party, will join in. We think that's the best solution. Then we will have a thorough review of this, and then I am not in doubt that the Progress Party will be involved in creating a housing support scheme that will help those who need it the most in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e530	I thought I'd talk a little bit about injustice. When a child in a family makes money, they are added to the household’s total income and result in less housing support for a poor family. In the case of dependents alone, they are receiving housing support if they are undergoing training, because the study loan is regarded as income. Lone men who pay high child contributions do not receive housing support because solitude is excluded from the housing support scheme. If families of children try to make themselves self-sustaining and buy a housing flat, but it turns out that it is not the House Bank that has financed the apartment, they do not have the right to housing support. Less are covered by the housing support scheme following the tightening-up of Christmas by the Government, and fewer people throughout the country are now receiving housing support. This housing support is too poor and needs to be complemented by more municipal housing support, and municipalities are also getting their economy tightened up. When we confront the Government with this, they say that they will come back to the Storting in connection with the housing announcement in autumn 2003 or in connection with the poverty announcement for the autumn. But simply this means that the injustices of the housing support system are going to remain unfair in the time to come. We don't want to wait. The SV has therefore made proposals together with the Workers' Party and the Centre that the housing aid scheme should be reviewed until the 2003 budget. In the difference message SV showed that housing support is something that works very well to balance differences. The government’s own housing report recommended an increase in housing aid of 500 million. kr. That the government is not concerned about doing anything about the housing support, is nothing strange. They can't afford to do anything about injustice in their budgets, because they're more concerned with spending money on tax bills and sabotaging babysitting decisions from Stortinget! But that the Progress Party, which pretends to be the weak defenders of society, will not take a vow, then I think: pinada, really! So to Torbjørn Andersen who just made posts here. I'd like to ask him to come up to the Great Council chair and explain why he thinks it's okay to wait to do something about these injustices. Can he come up and tell why he believes that if he builds a house without house banking funding, then people living in that house will not have the right to housing support? Can he explain why he believes that lonely men, because they do not care for their children, should not qualify for housing support? Can the Progress Party see the 14-year-old boy who goes with the papers to get pocket money, into his eyes to say, "When you go with the papers, do you have to agree to pay the rent to your family?" It's possible the Progress Party thinks it's fair. I don't think so. I'm impatient, and I want to do something about this already in the budget for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e549	The President has a great sense of commitment, but would like to help the parliamentary environment sink over the representative, and so 'pinadø' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e552	The Christian People's Party believes that the bump is a rigorous tool to smooth out differences and reduce poverty. This is why the support schemes are of course an important part of a big message about poverty reduction that is already coming to the fall. It's not long. It's right around the corner. And then there's plenty of room to think about how the bump should be changed and realigned. There is no reason for the opposition to be concerned about the government's will and the ability to focus both on housing policy and poverty reduction. In its first draft budget, the co-operation administration was already able to give priority to poverty reduction, something on which the Stoltenberg government in its draft budget did not have the same focus. The Christian People's Party also believes that there is a need for a comprehensive treatment of housing policy, and in that context, the Government will come with a housing message next fall. It's not long to do that either. If we're going to do it properly, we actually need a little bit of time. This is a comprehensive policy area. It is very small to allow it to become part of the house's budget procedure. I recommend the minority proposal, which, after all, gets multiples here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e563	This is not the time to draw up the major debate on housing policy, but some brief comments from the Central Party, as I have put forward this proposal for consideration now. The main issue today is whether the Stortninget will commission a review of the budget for 2003. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party must take a great responsibility for that not happening. On questions to the leader of the Housing Committee, Kristian Wibe, about what's most urgent about following up, the answer was clear: make sure an extension of the possibilities for support. A message in 2003 contrasts strongly with the alleged commitment to action for those who have difficulties at present. Now 2002:2 is very clear as to what it means to cover its building costs. 60 pst. in a 2002 survey, the support was entirely decisive as to whether they had the possibility of retaining the housing. 33 pst. said it means a lot. It is suggested, and the vote will be taken, that one now asks for clarification as to whether more people can be included in the scheme, whether to go for an increase in income – not so steep an income curve – and what is crucial to look at more closely, is whether to include one-person households. Today, there are some people who have such a bad standard on their dwelling that they do not get the benefit of covering their expenses for that reason. It would have been very important to get them into such an assessment. Anita Apelthun Soul had some fun words here. I didn't think they were ambiguistic – not at all in relation to what the Council of State wrote in a letter that she considered this proposal, that she felt it necessary to point out that the support schemes have both positive and negative aspects in relation to incentives in order to obtain work. In fact, I think both are important, both to commit to more people's jobs, and to more people's spending on housing – which is a crucial and important basis for life in everyday life. And I just found it sad that the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party cannot be so far-sighted that they are asking for such an assessment in the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e582	It's not to start a debate outside the agenda, but I think there are a little different Norwegian-ethnic variants of what we think are consistent. In mountain terms, ‘pinadø’ is a very common expression. I don't know if I would consider it particularly unparliamentary. So to the matter of housing support. Yes, there are injustices in the housing support system. We've been discussing those injustices for a long time. For example, the delimitation of housing financing has: has been an injustice of which all parties in the Grand Duchy have been occupied, but no one has so far been able to finance in its alternative budgets. I realize it's urgent to do something about this, but I'm actually going to say that not all of these themes are new. The government will return to the housing support scheme in several rounds. We come back to the issue of poverty policy in the context of the poverty action plan. It is important to have housing support as an element, because housing support is accurate for those who have the most difficulty. And it is clear that all the issues raised here will be affected in this context as well as in the context of the housing notification. I think in many ways that it has become so that once there comes a new NOU, we take out pieces of it and promote it as a proposal in the Stortinget. Now we are following the approach that a unanimous increase actually meant when we considered the proposal of the Bondevik I government, namely that we should have a comprehensive review of housing policy, including in these areas. And there is a need for a comprehensive review – it is clear that housing support works best together with some other housing policy instruments – where we may look not only at housing support but also at the housing grant scheme. Because within the social housing plans in municipalities, some can be moved, so that they can move from being in a rental situation into the owner’s market and thus get a safer situation – a combination of these things. It is clear that we must also see this in relation to a poverty strategy. We're not going to make social arrangements that leave some people in a trap of poverty. This can be done quickly if you have a housing support scheme that does not take into account the incentives you have to work and how it turns out if you are working. It also has something to do with what respect such a scheme has if some people in this country get more by receiving different types of social benefits and housing support at the same time, than those in full employment. Therefore, I think it would be wrong not to look at the working line that most of the Storting agrees on. We also need to see how the housing support works in that context. Therefore, sharing the housing support, with slightly different rules, can be correct. But I have to remind you that before 1997, the housing aid was actually two different schemes. And some parties in Stortinget actually voted against merging it, because it could cause problems. But the government is coming back. We're going to light up all of this, but in connection with other things, and not just the housing support alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e594	The President would just like to point out to the Council of State that we have different daily speeches, both from the Nordic countries and Hedmark, which may still not fit into this house. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3528]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e613	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e630	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e647	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e664	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e669	The President has read the proposal, which is the matter: ‘The Government is asking for the UN to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention.’ It should actually be obvious that there is a need for this. The refugee convention is from 1951, it was based on the experiences of World War II when it was created. We see that this refugee convention is now being abused by many in the vast majority of countries. Where Western countries have sought a restriction and a regulation of their immigration, it is now among other things. committed a massive smuggling of human beings and circumvention of legislation in order to try to stay under the cover of pretending to be a refugee and coming under the Refugee Convention. There are enough examples of this flow in all European countries and of how desperate people are. And I can have a great deal of understanding of that when we know how difficult it is in many countries. But that's not enough for you not to make a regulation, and here there's a very obvious need for that. In the general debate, the refugee convention is often referred to. When it is predicted in Norway that 18 000 will come here this year, and then under this Refugee Convention to apply for residence as a refugee, we know that all these asylum seekers are not real refugees. When it comes to people in different criminal ways, you don't have to be able to rely on this convention. We have seen in the last few days that there are people who have been taken for hijacking — one of the worst acts of terror that exist — who, after making a very small sentence for this in another country, have nevertheless come to Norway and have been given a stay and talk about themselves as refugees — and refer to the Convention. The need to revise this Refugee Convention is relatively obvious in my view. It is also clear from a letter I received from the Council of State today that it is not so clear that in a country you do not have the right to expel persons who have not been accommodated or who have applied for asylum and do not receive it, and send them back to their own country. It's often said that it can't be done because it's the case, it's a death penalty. There is also a part that has now been misunderstood, and it is very unclear after the letter that I received today from the Council of State. Especially with regard to the mentioned two hijackers who have been accommodated, I would like to shoot in and ask the council if she really accepts that the UDI has a director who, to those degrees, shows a lack of sensible judgment, a lack of ability to understand how to act. That he can continue as a director after having given a stay to two cabins is completely incomprehensible to me. We do then have general provisions on competence and the ability to exercise reasonable judgement, to investigate matters, to deal with matters – which is obviously not the case here for the person with this position. I would also like to ask for a confirmation from the Council of State that the Government in one of the first meetings of the autumn will hand over to the Odelstinget or to the Stortinget a proposal that, in difficult matters, governance should be taken back to the Department and the political environment, and not as now as the majority, all except the Right and the Advance Party, unfortunately transferred responsibility to the UDI. It also has to do with the Convention being very clear about this with expulsion and also what are the criteria for extradition. That's part of the concepts of the refugee convention I'm now talking about. It has been claimed that people cannot be expelled or handed over to countries that have the death penalty in their system. It's wrong if you think about the extradition law. Section 1 of the Delivery Act states: ‘Whoever is intended, accused or convicted of criminal offences in a foreign State and who is resident in this State may be extradited in accordance with the provisions of this Act.’ The two hijackers I've been talking about, they're not accused, they're out of sight or they're judgmental in Iran for anything. They are ordinary Iranian citizens who have served a sentence, and they do not risk anything in particular, if there is nothing else they have done in Iran that could lead to a risk to them. This practice by the Director of the UDI means that anyone who comes from a country that has a possibility of death penalty in its legislation can pay homage to asylum in Norway and be guaranteed permanent residence without having done anything else wrong, because the death penalty is thus practised in the home country. I hope that the Council of State can answer a few of the questions I have allowed me to ask. And then I'm actually assuming after what's happened, that there's more than the Progress Party voting to get the necessary initiative for a revision of the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e690	Let me begin by referring to the debate during the discussion of the law itself by Odelsting, when this proposal was taken up. There I also mentioned this proposal. This is a proposal that is known, it is not the first time that the Progress Party is promoting such a proposal in the Storting. In the context of the 50th anniversary of the Refugee Convention, the High Commissioner for Refugees carried out a review and an evaluation of whether the Convention itself was still a usable convention in relation to the new refugee picture. What they came to then, and which was agreed by the signatories to the Convention at a meeting that I attended in Geneva before Christmas last year, was that the Convention was applicable, it was usable. We addressed various problems related to the influx of asylum, but it was thought that the legislation contained in the Convention was good enough to solve the problems, and so we did not want to start a new, major review. I would therefore like to think that it is a bit strange to come back with Norwegian views now on how this should be. What we said then was in line with what the Stortinge said earlier. I believe, in fact, that within the Convention we can probably solve some of our asylum problems better than what we have done so far. I also welcome the fact that we no longer assume that there are 18 000 asylum seekers coming this year. The number is currently going down. A place between 15 000 and 16 000 appears to be following the latest asylum applications. So some of the tightening measures that have been taken may have worked. Or other things have happened. I will never take the rose because we have got this on our own, through the measures we have taken, but at the moment there is somewhat less arrival. But we're in front of a summer, which means that we can't guarantee that it's still going to be like this. Last summer we had an explosion, not least from Bulgaria. So the question about whether I trust the UDI Director's assessments. I have said that I believe that the room for action that could have been in this case has not been used by people who had had a political treatment. One could have withdrawn the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to find other agreements and get guarantees from the countries to which we might return, not least in relation to our having an agreement with Russia. Nevertheless, I believe that – as far as we have gone through the matter now – there has been no crime, there has been no breach of legislation, there has been no action that can suggest that there is no correct decision on the basis of the legislation that the UDI is dealing with. But we believe that there is another space for action that should have been exploited and that we must in the future intensify our exploitation. That's why we need to have a better way of communicating. We are now looking at whether, in the future, we should have changes in communication and the possibility of being in front of such decisions, which would allow a Council of State to print a regulation, as the law today says, is the way to instruct, and whether it can be done within the law that exists today, or whether we need to have a further change in law and regulation. I promise to come back to Stortinget with a review of this – I cannot promise that it will be at the first meeting until the fall! This is also related to the evaluation we have of the Study on Foreign Affairs, to see how the system actually works. But I think we need urgent work to see if there is a greater room for action within the law, or if we have to make changes to the law as it is. So we promise to come back again with a review of this during the fall and of the race that might be if we also make further changes in the laws. But I think we need to spend a little more time than one or two days deciding just where to place ourselves and how much space there might be in the law. So to the question that you cannot send back again. The letter we sent to the representative Carl I. Hagen is probably correct in the sense that the Refugee Convention itself has some exceptions in order to return to land with the death penalty. But it is that we also have the European Convention on Human Rights, and it has been so far practiced in Norway and by the Human Rights Court itself that no one is sent back to a country where there is a risk of death penalty. I agree that we cannot invoke this in any case, it must be made probable that we will be at risk of the death penalty. And so we have the opportunity to make political agreements, as we did with Russia. In the 1994 Seizing and Judicial Mission of the hijackers, there was an agreement that the Russians should not use the death penalty. It is fully possible with some policy action parameters to conclude that even if there is a death penalty in a country, it is not possible to return home. Because it is possible to get guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e711	It's true, as State Council Solberg says, that the proposal that we are now going to vote on was debated when Odelstinget had the matter under consideration. It was then reviewed. On the SV side, we find no reason for this issue to be raised by the Norwegian side, depending on whether the Progress Party has a completely different view of who are worthy refugees, than SV has. We choose to deal with the international agreements we have. So to the matter that I'm assuming is the reason that the representative Hagen chooses to use the pulpit here today on this topic. It is a very difficult matter that has come up. The principles of not sending people back to the death penalty or torture are important. It's not about whether we like these people or not, whether you have any acceptance for what's happened or not, but about a principle. It's when it's most difficult, the principles are most important. If you can't keep them then, they're not principles, then you just have pragmatism again. I agree with the Council of State that the action space was not used in advance, and that it should have been. When the Council of State again concludes that no errors have been committed, SV believes that the most correct thing would have been to stand behind the decision that has been made, and not to continue giving signals that can be interpreted as if you really disagree. SV has also been critical of the system that has been established now, where the political environment has almost castrated itself in relation to all these issues. We agree that there should be a system where we should not be politically involved in all individual matters, but where principles should be dealt with in a much more flexible way than has been done today. It signals to the Government that it can imagine in terms of the relationship that we have now established in the Foreign Affairs Act, where a regulation is now to be drawn up to provide a basis for asylum or residence on a humanitarian basis. There is an opportunity where the Storting can ask the Government to act, or where the Government can act on its own initiative when you see something going wrong. There should also be a system in which you can handle such matters properly and properly in advance, before they come out as it has done, because there is no doubt that this is a matter which does not make it easier for those who need asylum. Here's a room within the law that should be used also for the benefit of some of those who now get no, who so absolutely should be allowed to be. We also look forward to the evaluation of the Foreign Study, as SV has asked for a long time, and as the Government now says it will come. For Norwegian policies in this area, progress has been made through the practice of the provisions through the UDI and the Department before, and now through the Foreign Affairs Department, without having been made aware of what has actually happened, and whether case-law is evolving in line with what is politically thought to be right, and what is a political majority for. We look forward to it, because we want a system in which Norway deals with its obligations when it comes to caring for refugees both in terms of asylum and humanitarian grounds – that we should do so in the matters with which we have all hearted, but that we should also be able to deal with these principles when matters are difficult. However, it is also important that the government now does not give double signals, but is determined that the decision taken by the administration in this case is correct. I think that's the only right way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e724	A short comment from the Center Party's page, since the Progress Party has now taken up a matter that was actually discussed in Odelstinget and sent to Stortinget from there. All first to the Refugee Convention. We support the assessment that the Council of State here has given in relation to whether the Refugee Convention is a decent ride today, as he was when he was founded. We see no reason to review the UN's own assessments of this, and we have understood so far from the Progress Party's commitment that what has been their wish is here to address a major debate on the narrowing of the question of'refugee'. So until the difficult matter, which I understand, is the basis for the question that has been asked today. It should be clear from the Centre Party's side that no one is going to hijack themselves in Norway. At the same time, the principle that no one should be sent back to torture and death shall be established. This case has shown that there is a need for a review of the political responsibility of the Council of State for the implementation of the law. She has political responsibility. In this case, political consultations seem to have been most necessary, and it is important that it follows up the initiatives that have been warned about having routines that allow such practices to take place in key matters. For our part, we want to add that it also applies, as we see it, in relation to appeals. Several of us are getting in touch with issues that are being asked when decisions are being taken in different communities, especially when families with children are being sent out of the country in difficult situations. In basically important matters relating to how to handle anchors, we thought it important to discuss how to strengthen the procedures, so that even the political responsibility in that area has channels to carry out that responsibility. In line with what I have said, I would ask the Group of the European People's Party to reject the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e735	It is true that this is not the first time that the Progress Party is promoting this proposal. But perhaps it has never been as topical as now for the other parties to seriously consider supporting the proposals of the Progress Party. The situation is serious, and it's of course difficult when you get such things like this. But it should not be difficult, I think, for Norway to bring this matter up again. The EU has a summit in Seville this weekend, and I think I can guarantee to Stortinget that this matter is a topical issue at that summit. I have at least been interviewed in this context today, so the EU is actually aware of the situation. And I can report to the Norwegian Storing that the people I have spoken to today are shocked that the Norwegian Storing is not aware of which people are allowed to stay in Norway. Such practices are shocking. It is possible that the Council of State considers the Convention to be comprehensive, but the problem is that in Norway we are practicing this Refugee Convention in a very strange way. Because we're mixing the terms. If we had dealt with the UN's own definitions of a refugee, there would be no problem. But in Norway, we're cleaning out the asylum facility to use it to give people a break. The UN is quite clear on this when they talk about the world's 40 million. refugees. That's $25 million. people fleeing in their own country. The rest have fled across borders. The people who have fled from their own country to another country under the auspices of the United Nations are refugees as defined by the United Nations. While the people who move on their own initiative to Norway and poop at the door and ask for a stay are asylum seekers. And then they must also be treated as asylum seekers. But in Norway, we give them humanitarian residence, based on refugee status. That's what's wrong in Norway. And this is exactly what the Norwegian big thing wants to expand. We want to use the concept of asylum also for people who are persecuted in other ways, for example because of sex. That's what Stortinget has recently said. That is why it is even more important that we define what is a refugee and what is an asylum seeker. State councils are trying to calm down the serious situation by saying that there is now only 15 000–16,000, but it is only to look at the situation from last year. There was also nothing last year that would allow us to receive 15,000. But that's when they come. Maybe it's that we get a little less inflow now that we actually have a debate, and have had a long-term debate. So over to the matter that has been so difficult for many. I do not see that this matter is difficult any longer. If we think it's difficult, we kind of doubted the Iranian authorities and the Norwegian Embassy, who have concluded that there is no danger of sending those people to Iran. And the Progress Party will not be in it. It is clear from there that there is no danger to life and health associated with sending them back to Iran. And another thing: in fact, it is now that during the day, at least the signatories have received signals that there are several criminals who have been accommodated in Norway, but that the UDI will not reveal what criminal activity these have done. However, they confirm that there are several residents this year. So there's one to two people this year, and we don't know how many people have stayed in 2000 or 2001. This is very serious. It is very serious that the Norwegian people and the Norwegian giant do not know which people are allowed to stay in Norway. Therefore, the Progress Party must ask the Council of State to launch a review of the entire UDI. The whole UDI has to be checked, and it back in time. We cannot accept that the Director of Nordby is still standing up today and says straight away that he would have made the same decision again. So he insists that what he has done is correct, regardless of whether the decision has been made on the wrong basis. And it's a serious situation for a person in such a position. So I ask the Council of State to further assess the position of Director Nordby. It may not be in the interest of the Government or Norwegian Storing that Nordby is now continuing in its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e752	Norway must, of course, comply with our international obligations, including our obligations in matters of repatriation with a risk of death penalty. The case of residence of persons who have carried out hijacking raises questions of a principle which should obviously be subject to a political assessment. The procedural system must be set up in such a way that such fundamental political assessments are carried out in such cases. I have nothing to say about the statements of the Council of State on the non-procedural nature of the matter in question, about the desire for a broader political assessment and the need to assess the matter in a broader context. The Workers' Party also assumes that the Council of State assesses the basis for such a political assessment, even in the present case, as she has also expressed the wish. In addition, in relation to the proposal available in the case currently under consideration, I would urge the Workers' Party to vote against, and refer to the State Council's statement on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e761	I find with regret that all the other parties who have spoken – including the Council of State – do not think there is any basis for acting against the Director of the UDI, despite the fact that many have said that this matter should have been brought before the Department, because it was a matter of principle before the decision was taken. It wasn't done. It will not be done for the future either, because the UDI Director – as far as I have understood him – would do the same again, so let alone put the matter ahead of political leadership. He would make the same decision and make the same unacceptable judgemental assessments. What no one has tried to tell us and the Norwegian people is: Where in the world do you have it from that these two hijackers would risk the death penalty if they were sent to Iran? I am not aware of any intention, cause or charge against them in Iran. In the opinion of our own embassy, they risk nothing in Iran. Is it just because Iran has the death penalty in its arsenal of criminal reactions this has happened? What are these two risking the death penalty for? Is it true that any Iranians who have come to Norway and sought asylum and who do not receive asylum and are not allowed to stay and are to be returned to Iran cannot be returned because that country has a death penalty for certain crimes? That would be pointless. It is also clear in the United Nations Convention that hijacking is an exception to this. It says in the letter from the Council of State to me today. There are exceptions in Article 1 F. The same applies to terrorists. And if it isn't, it should be. But I notice that the rest of the Stortinget thinks it's okay. They have some critical points of view, but mainly they insist that the Director remain seated and continue in the same way as before, and accept that these two hijackers remain in Norway, and once again make Norway a bit of a mockery and spe in Europe, where this would largely not be a difficult matter, because it is agreed that the hijackers will not be allowed to stay – point! That is also the position of the Progress Party. This is not a difficult matter. It is not acceptable that cabins should be allowed to stay in Norway, and especially not when they are on humanitarian grounds because we should feel sorry for the hijackers. Here the world, in Norway, is turned upside down.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e770	Let me just say two things to the representative Hagen's post now. So it's not like the UDI director says he'd do the exact same thing again. The UDI director has said in conversation with me and the media that he sees that there should have been information given to political leadership about this, and that we need to create a pattern of action in relation to fundamental issues that are seen to create major political, possibly major, economic consequences, and that there is a dialogue that needs to be resolved. We also need to see how strongly this is going to be done, as I said earlier, whether it also means that we have to do something in relation to the legal and regulatory system we have attached to this. The fact that you do not stay with the status of refugee after the Refugee Convention is exactly what UDI has done. They have therefore rejected their applications for asylum. So these people haven't become refugees, precisely because they've committed a criminal act, which means they don't fall into the category, and you've just used this Article 1 F. But then there is the second question, which can of course be discussed, but where there is an assessment in the UDI that is not that you will necessarily be punished again for the hijacking, but that these people would be perceived as enemies of the state of Iran by a return to Iran – and for that area it is therefore possible to be subjected to the death penalty in Iran. Iran is not a country Norway seems to be cutting high on human rights statistics in general. That's what I want to say. But what was the space for action, which has been my criticism, is that we could have solved this through political discussions. So these people have been to Denmark. They have been allowed to stay in Denmark. Despite the strict immigration policy that Denmark has, it has been decided not to send these back to Iran, but to allow them to stay. This means that they were allowed to stay in Denmark without status. But it would have been possible for us to have political communication with the Danish authorities, with the Russian authorities, and possibly with the Azerbaijani authorities. That's the room we should have used, and we have to make sure in the future that we take advantage of these kind of difficult things. Because I fully agree with Mr Hagen's representative on one point: we should not accept hijacking. Nor should we accept that we get a reputation as being a haven for people who have committed hijackings, by not using the space we have to make agreements with other countries and return people, but within our human rights obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e798	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e815	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e832	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3529]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e850	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e867	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e883	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the right 10 minutes, the progress party 10 minutes, the Socialist left party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the centre party 5 minutes, the left 5 minutes and the coastal party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e892	The government already announced in its corrected government budget that there was a need to return to the revised budget with a review of the hospital economy, because there was a need to gain experience with the reform. This is the case now following up. In this case, there is a broad consensus on the level of appropriations and the need for efficiency improvement. I am particularly pleased that, in consultation with the Ministry, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have laid the basis for a production growth in 2002 at the lower end of 1.5 p.m. If one looks at the revised national budget as a whole, there is no doubt that the patients are the winners. In the course of the treatment, we received information from the Department that there has been a positive development in hospitals. In the first quarter of 2002, it indicates an activity growth of 1.8 pst. compared with the same period in 2001. Per. On 6 June 2002, there are 12,000 fewer patients on the waiting lists compared with the turn of the year and the average waiting time has decreased by seven days at the same time. It shows that hospital reform is already starting to produce positive results for patients. However, another important reason for the reform was also to have more efficient health care operations. There was a broad consensus on the objective – more treatment for each krone. Therefore, the Committee has also joined the Government's call for an improvement in the effectiveness of hospitals. The requirements are significant and it is therefore important to provide hospitals with a balance sheet requirement only in 2003, with an increased operational credit framework of DKK 1 billion. Especially during a period of as strong production growth as we are now, it is important that companies have good cost control. The allocation of the basic appropriations for 2002, and in this case, is based mainly on historical figures. Different undertakings have been subject to different conversion and efficiency requirements over time. This is thus reflected in this distribution. This means, as the Committee points out, that the potential for migration and efficiency is different between health businesses. The escalation plan for mental health involves a comprehensive strengthening of the mental health service. This is as it emerges from the proposition, an area in which the Council of State has a special attention through the governance signals of health enterprises. The last review shows that all regional health enterprises maintain the activity level for 2001, and the earmarked grants are added to realise new activity. The Committee agrees with the Council of State that it is important to follow this up in particular with respect to undertakings. The committee that gave its opinion to the Health Authority in 2001 on neonatal care has caused a great deal of concern about the supply of the smallest and most resource-intensive of premature babies. This is a patient group that, in line with others, needs to be ensured a good professional offer. However, the Committee has already stated that it is not only a regional hospital that should have this offer. In accordance with the letter to the Committee of the Minister for Health, it is noted that good professional settings have been developed in some of the central hospitals. The final conclusion will be drawn during the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 2002. There has been a lot of debate about funding the offer of assisted fertilisation. I am therefore pleased that the government parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party, came up with a solution that is now being endorsed by an overall committee. The scheme involves an excess of NOK 18000, resulting in up to three trials. This model has many similarities with the proposal already put forward by SV in the 2002 budget. Especially happy is that we found room for a system that also gives retroactive force. So no one falls between two chairs. The Ministry’s newly appointed priority committee has now also made its recommendation on the matter. In my opinion, the scheme adopted here today is well in line with the recommendation of the committee. Overall, the adjustment provides a broad connection to the governance signal of the Government towards regional health enterprises. This promises good for the success of the implementation of the health reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e920	We are now at the time of the year when we fill up the hospitals, i.e. the budgets of the specialist health service in the middle of the financial year. Yes, the need for more money is definitely present, because we still see too long waiting lists and patients referred to the hospital corridors, even if there is a signal, as the case rapporteur indicated, which indicates that patient treatment increases so much that the queues decrease and the time in the queue gets shorter. That's a positive sign that we're going to take with us. I, and more people with me, believe that the reform of organising specialist health services in companies will improve our health care system. One of the key objectives of the reform was to improve the use of resources, both material and human, by providing health businesses with much greater freedom in their day-to-day operations while meeting national health policy objectives. Clearer liability, a clear owner and decentralised decision making is an important prerequisite. At the same time, the Health Business Act has emphasised the country’s need for overall governance and control of the establishments. I think it is important to achieve good resource use that employers' responsibilities are clear, and that capital consumption will soon become an element of day-to-day operation, now that we have to expect to establish opening balance sheets for health enterprises based on the principle of replacement cost. I refer here to the Committee's unanimous comment on this. It is gratifying that room has been found for strengthening both the operational and investment budgets, so that the Storting's assumptions of continuing growth in patient treatment can be met by far. It is also important that it is largely an overall committee and an aggregate size that, in common notes and proposals for decisions, makes important improvements that benefit patients directly. I refer you here to the rapporteur's good report on this. However, let me highlight some areas that I think should be mentioned. It is very important that the Minister of Health is prepared to implement the psychiatry escalation plan and that the relatively large earmarked funds actually go clearly to improve the supply of patients with mental illness. Structural changes in the meaning of the closure of offers must not be made until a different and better offer is in place. I am not satisfied that it was only SV who supported the Workers' Party in expressing concerns about information that efficiency measures in psychiatry were in some cases equivalent to the removal of environmental therapeutic and activity-creating instruments. These are offers which in very many cases are a necessary quality of treatment and rehabilitation services. I also consider it necessary to mention the Committee's work on obtaining acceptable funding for operations at the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Centre. The change made by the Ministry on the basis of the funding of these two institutions could have a dramatic effect on the ability of these institutions to carry out the partially highly specialised treatment of patients with heart disease. When most of the cut proposed by the department is corrected, both me and the Labour Party are satisfied. It would be a little patient-friendly to put people with heart problems in long queues. The matter of assisted fertilisation has been an unfortunate matter for many. In the introduction of full self-payment for this treatment, many couples were deprived of the opportunity to try to have children because of economic circumstances. The case also had a strong emotional side for them, because the desire to have children is so strong in most people. In the decision that was taken, Stortinget was held responsible for the situation of each couple. We couldn't have it that way. For us in the Workers' Party, we have searched for the possibility to reverse the bulk of the population before Christmas 2001. Although an excess of NOK 18 000 for up to three attempts was not the first choice of the Workers' Party, we have joined this in order to reach a broad and robust consensus in the Stortinget in this matter. We have had that in common, and I think it benefits everyone, both the political parties and not least those who want assisted fertilization, who are now free to live in uncertainty. I also mention the issue of a national purchasing centre in Vadsø, a decision on coordination measures for equipment and materials to ensure quality and good resource use. I am very pleased that all the parties except the Advance Party have given their support to this. The government has also been given a clear mandate with this treatment. I also think this is a matter that tolerates being mentioned on a day when the Storting in other matters is concerned with district policy. The Ministry explains in this case that the need for additional appropriations is higher than that proposed. Although we are now adopting approx. 350 million. In addition to the Ministry's proposals, an increase in operational appropriations is still around EUR 20 million. $1,300 million. kr i efficiency requirements for hospitals to balance operations. This is a very tough requirement for health businesses. Me and the Workers' Party must assume that the Department, and the Minister of Health in particular, have assessed the realism and consequences of such a claim, and I think that has happened. I agree that the new health reform also provides opportunities for operational benefits, i.e.: more patient treatment for each crown. But if a person is to do this, there is a need for will and ability to change in several areas. Firstly, a great deal is required of managers, who have to deal with quality requirements and responsibilities, i.e.: also accountable managers at a lower level of the organisation. In addition, in addition to the professional aspects of the position, the manager must also master the organisation of processes that both motivate and include employees. Other persons responsible for the organisation must accept and understand the role of the manager. This is not always the case today in a health care profession. Furthermore, it is essential that the perception of reality in each institution is somewhat uniform, and a successful process of change depends on it. In addition, it is necessary to incorporate an understanding that change is necessary and that a person needs to learn and seek new knowledge about the operation of a heavy organisation, as a hospital is definitely. This means that one has to actively work towards an environment that sees the value of changes and is therefore positive for improvements. I mention these points, not because I want to teach someone, but I want to express this in terms of the efficiency question. Efficiency is not brutalised cuts that go beyond patients, but efficiency should be improved use of resources and an improved organisation. Based on these principles with a strong focus on the patient, I believe that the new health reform can be very successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e950	Let me begin by saying that I am very pleased with the development we now have in healthcare companies in relation to increased patient treatment. According to official figures, the waiting time for patients has fallen. The number of patients on the waiting lists is reduced and is lower today than it has been in the last ten years. This clearly shows that the state hospital reform was necessary and that it appears to produce results as expected after three months. In this context, I find reason to credit the Minister of Health for the nitite follow-up to the January reform that has been carried out and that is now producing results. There is respect for the Minister of Health's commitment to getting the reform on the rails, especially in view of the fact that the Christian People's Party was one of the parties most opposed to the reform. For those parties and representatives here in the Chamber who represent the strongest repulsions against hospital reform, the development now taking place of a positive nature must give cause for concern. However, with reference to one of the last hours of questioning, it seems that some of the counter-force parties are constantly trying to counter the reform indirectly. To these parties I will say: Forget it! From the point of view of the Progress Party, however, I hope that it will not take too many years until we also have a state responsibility for both primary health care and care for the elderly. Let me be so personal and say that sometimes I ask a silent prayer that I must experience such a day. As far as I have been able to follow, and as the results now show for the 1st tertiary, one must be able to establish that the administration and organisation of the enterprises has been very good so far. For example, Health Sør has worked very well with employees’ organisations and employees by conducting extensive public meetings in hospitals, resulting in a very positive attitude and enthusiasm among hospital staff. It is also necessary to mention here the intention and production agreement reached in the spring pay settlement between NATO and the Norwegian Nursing Association, an agreement that will increase patient care in our hospitals. It was, of course, a handicap that businesses had to start the operating term with a significant underbalance in their budgets, but with the present proposition and the addition of resources that are now negotiated between the government parties and the Progress Party, the financial problems will also be well solved for the current year of operation, with a further increase in patient treatment. However, the scarce resources for equipment investment for the current year of operation are of great concern to me. I hope it will be possible for the government budget for the autumn to be dealt with in a better predictable way, even in the case of medical-technical equipment. A review of the business opening balance sheet will necessarily be important in this context. Now that hospitals are run as businesses, we do not have to be tempted here in the Storting to interfere in the administration, organisation and operation of companies, which is a trend in this setting. Our task is to ensure that enterprises operate according to agreed health policy objectives, with equivalent professional treatment provision for all. An overall committee expresses concern about psychiatry, adult psychiatry, acute psychiatry, or – and not least – child and youth psychiatry, which appears to have more problems than expected in the psychiatry plan. I assume that the Minister of Health will remember this, and that next year we will have an upgrade of the psychiatry plan. Several parties warn in the setting against putting down the top competence in neonatal medicine established in some of our central hospitals, for example in Bodø and Ålesund, treatment services that hold international standards, and see it as negative that much premature premature infants are to be transported long distances to the nearest regional hospital. In the proposition, enterprises are allocated approx. 1.3 billion in fresh money. This was probably at least a layer. While expecting production efficiency of equivalent amounts, enterprises will need greater resources in the second half of the year to maintain the already ongoing increase in production, and it is therefore gratifying that the Progress Party in negotiations with the government parties was able to add an additional 350 million to hospitals. kr, so that one has a cover for an increase in production of approx. 1.5 pst. In addition, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have ensured future operations at the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Centre by 20 million respectively. and 10 million. kr. Both of these private hospitals were at risk of having to reduce their operations in the second half of the year due to changes in DRG prices. In negotiations with the government parties, the Progress Party also obtained additional funding for the training institutions of 25 million. kr, institutions that are seriously struggling with their economy and finally reached an agreement to increase the DRG percentage from 55 to 60 pst. from 1 January 2003, as requested by the undertakings. In this context, it is important to clarify that DRG prices need to be more accurate than is the case today, fully covering the cost of treatment, which can give hospitals predictability of income and thus provide a better basis for more accurate budgeting. I am pleased that the Progress Party has succeeded in having a subsidiary agreement with the government parties in terms of artificial fertilisation abscesses, with a maximum abstinence of NOK 18 000 for three trials. The Progress Party is promoting in its position under its National Assembly Decision proposals to provide full coverage for artificial fertilization with retroactive effect, and I had actually expected that the Workers' Party in particular, but also the Socialist Left Party, could have gone along with this proposal, since these parties have made a lot of noise in winter and in recent days and have strongly criticised the Progress Party for so-called lifting breach. It was the government of Stoltenberg that promoted this famous proposal to deduct the reimbursement for artificial fertilization, a proposal that I hardly think the sitting government would have promoted. I am free enough to claim that both in the revised national budget and in cooperation with the government parties in the social committee on the hospital economy proposition, the Progress Party has had a significant impact on its health policy in several areas, and I hope, of course, that this will also be the case when we come to the government budget in the autumn. It is interesting to note that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre also had available funds to strengthen the health service with the same crown amount as the government parties and the Progress Party had arrived at. The present attitude clearly shows that the Progress Party has a decisive influence on the health policy pursued, which I am of course very pleased with. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e991	The representative Alvheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e994	The specialist health service consumes about DKK 15 billion annually. Of course, this is a high amount, but a total increase is interested in having a well-developed specialist health service, and that we should have a health service that ensures equal value in the healthcare service. There is therefore a need to understand that driving the health system costs and that there will be a need to equip it in some areas on the basis of priorities that appear to be sensible. In February, we had a situation here in Stortinget, where the focus was on the resource situation in hospitals, and where the Progress Party and the Workers' Party called for a fairly rapid allocation to the hospitals and did not await the situation to the revised national budget. In SV we disagreed with that assessment. We thought it was important to first identify where to use the resources, get an overview of it, and then discuss both the amount of the amount and where to put the effort. In view of that attitude, we wrote a letter to the Council of State on 7 March, which we received a thorough reply shortly after, and which gave a very detailed description of the situation in the specialist health service. From the point of view of SV, it showed that we per. the date is missing from a general overview of the specialist health service with regard to the situation. It's hard to know exactly where to put the priority. But in my opinion, the letter made it clear that there is at least a situation in psychiatry in general, and child and youth psychiatry in particular that you have to do something with, and you have to do something with it quickly. The letter from the State Council describes that the waiting time for child and youth psychiatrists or a specialist in childhood and youth psychiatry is over three months. It was 101 days by the end of 2000 and had fallen to 97 in 2001. In practice, there is virtually no change. ==References== 2 500 children are waiting for an evaluation and treatment by a specialist. What we know is that those kids in practice have expected a lot longer than that. When general practitioners take steps to refer to specialist health services in that area, we talk about children who are poor and who are in a strong need of help. Therefore, in the light of the letter we received from the Council of State, it has been important for the SV to give higher priority to psychiatry and to put resources in addition to what has been provided in the escalation plan. We also had an interpellation on 19 March that went on mental health protection. In the debate, the Council of State set out a number of examples in which it had been seen that there was a reduction in the number of children’s and young people’s psychiatry: ‘In the case of the referenced examples of mental health care cuts in Oslo and Vestfold, the conditions for the escalation plan are now clarified to regional health establishments. I will ensure to all healthcare companies that the assumptions regarding the continuation of resource use are followed up." The reactions to the announced cuts were also strong from other parties. Asmund Kristoffersen, the Labour Party, said: ‘If it appears from the review of the disposal of funds by health care establishments for the treatment of patients with mental illness that it has actually been cut in the treatment and use of money, it is totally unacceptable.’ He also expressed: «As soon as possible, managers who sabotage this must do what they have to do, or they should find something else to do.» There were very strong feedbacks, I would say, in the context of the interpellation in relation to the escalation plan adopted by the Stortinget, which is expected to be followed up, and that, in the light of this, one should not have cut off. Then we see a headline in Dagbladet on 19 June from Oslo, where a protocol from the Children's and Youth Psychiatry Board meeting in Oslo, dated 7 June, describes that a cut of 8.5 million is being announced. kr, i.e. 15 year-olds in childhood and youth psychiatry, and that it comes to the top of an extraordinary cut in childhood and youth psychiatry in Oslo, which is already completed, of 26 million. kr So it's going to happen even if you get a description. You can probably interpret the letter differently from the Council of State, and some people say it's not given that it's necessarily child and youth psychiatry that comes out the worst. I would like to say that it is relatively easy to interpret the letter there, because you see the decline in other areas, and you can see that it is mostly adults who are well-managed. But anyway, you get a cut, maybe in the municipality where the situation from before is the worst with regard to child and youth psychiatry. It's not a situation we can live with. If 15 jobs are to be lost, and you have to have a stepping-up plan to bet on an extension of the offer, you have to do something, and you have to do it quickly. I have recorded in another area, the heart surgery, that there is an overcapacity in heart surgery from Ullevål Hospital – I myself have visited the hospital and received a review there. So many operations are now under the control of the Feiring Clinic and the Heart Center that at times you have a heart team standing inoperative on Ullevål. It is clear that it is positive that queues within the healthcare system have been closed and that there is reasonably good capacity for heart surgery. But I'm looking this up against the situation I've now described with regard to child and youth psychiatry. In a situation where it is reasonably clear that the capacity is good, in a situation where the Celery Clinic builds up a rehabilitation department without even obtaining additional appropriations to it from the excess of heart surgery, in a situation where the Celery Clinic pays its heart surgeons between 2.5 and 3 million. kr on an annual basis, the Government and the Advancement Party agree to have an extra allocation for the heart surgery, just against the Celebrating Clinic and the Heart Centre, of 30 million. kr. This is done at the same time that there is no trace in this comparison of an increase in child and youth psychiatry. Then both I and SV are asking, when you say that you should have an increased bet within the specialist health service, and when you also describe that you should have a targeted bet, how focused that bet can be. When you spend even more resources on institutions that clearly show, through the remuneration of their staff and through the expansion of their activities, that they have plenty of money already, and you don't give priority to the 2,500 children who are in line waiting for treatment, there's something wrong with the priority. Then there is something wrong with the priority towards what Stortinget has so clearly expressed in terms of the psychiatry escalation plan. My respect for the Council of State is very great. I believe that there has been loyalty to decisions in Stortinget, and there has been a direction towards health policy that the Swedish authorities could have agreed on in many areas. I see that in the case of the hospital economy proposition, it describes a conversion of the cellular toxin treatment, where you have to have it out where it is practically sound. The same applies to dialysis. Of course, I am positive with the purchasing unit in Vadsø, not only because it stays in my own home state, but because that kind of coordinated offer is also sensible resource use. But I have to say that in relation to what we now see in the psychiatry escalation plan, I am seriously concerned, because we do not reach the group that should have the highest priority, and because there are so few traces in the hospital economy proposition of reaching this group. I see that you have to bet in municipalities on building a better housing offer, nursing homes for psychiatric patients, and that's important, and that's good. However, it is clear that in relation to the acute offer to those now waiting, it is mild to express that it is worrying that the offer is now being reduced. A lot could have been said about many areas in relation to the hospital economy proposition. When I choose to put so much emphasis on what's related to psychiatry, it's because there's a situation that concerns SV. It worries us a lot. We know that the Storting has been very clear in what direction it should be, and I also have to say that I am surprised – I have seen that the head of the Social Committee, Alvheim, has also expressed concern in those documents – when the government parties and the Advance Party make an agreement and you do not go more into and prioritise precisely the area that it seems to be a common recognition in this room that you should have prioritised. I hope that the Council of State will come back and say something about how you've been going to get along with what the Storting expects in relation to the situation you see in Oslo. How, then, can one ensure that one does not get an exit into Oslo where the offer is being reduced but that, on the contrary, one gets the strength that the Stortinget has decided to have? I refer to the suggestions that SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1053	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1056	The transformation of Norwegian specialist health service from county operations in the main to state enterprises was and is a major operation. The opinions were shared, but it does little to help patients if we were critical of this reform, today too much looks back to find confirmation that our resistance to the reform was correct. Through the Co-operation Administration, we take co-responsibility for this to go well, and we're doing well. Despite the addition of an increase in patient treatment growth in the 2002 budget from 2000 to 2002 of more than 5 pst., additional additions to the specialist services were necessary. This applies both to the means of settlement with the municipalities and to the means of operation and investment, together with well over 2 billion in the government setting. In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party, this is increased by an additional 350 million. kr. The joy is that this essentially has a unified solution. The Committee considers that, with the continuation of the 2001 level of operations, including migration costs, one will have a deficit of DKK 2.6 billion in regional health enterprises at the end of 2002. The Committee agrees that additional funding of DKK 1.3 billion will be provided in 2002. This presents a major challenge for health businesses to streamline their operations in order to balance them after a transitional period. At the same time, the challenge is to cut down on the waiting lists and get rid of the corridor patients. From the comments of the Committee, I would like to limit myself to pointing to one that is very important to many, not least in District Norway. It is the challenge of a joint committee to take care of a decentralised food supply with food departments and birth control where it is natural, so that the birthing at normal, normal births may not travel a long way to give birth, with the increased risk it entails. At the state takeover, this was one of the points where one was most concerned about what would happen. In different constellations between the Government Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party, the Government receives a majority for the adjusted revised budget. We're happy about that. One point on which much attention has been paid during the autumn and now revised budgetary procedure is assisted fertilization. The Government Party, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party have gathered on a joint proposal of $18,000 in title for up to three trials. It shall apply retroactively from 1 January 2002. The sum of NOK 18 000 was put forward between the Progress Party and the Government Party, but it's right as SV and others claim, that we used their model. There is also room for exemption from the property in the case of sterilisation according to medical indications. The specialist services are facing major challenges. In many large and important sectors of society, there seemed to be a great need for more resources. Most people see that within a defensive financial framework, hospitals also need to carefully assess the use of their resources, but this must be done without compromising the quality of services to patients for whom hospitals and specialist services are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1074	Health enterprises have identified an unmet need for operations of DKK 2.6 billion from the level of operations last year and the increase in wages and costs. The government responded by adding some more funds, approx. half, and then you want to make it more efficient for approx. 1.3 billion back. We believe that this is an unacceptable policy. That the activity growth is now related to what the Government proposes, is added to 0.5 pst. For 2002, we believe that the growth already recorded is too low and that there is a need for increased capacity in patient treatment. Now a majority add an increase that's up to 1.5 pst. I'll get something back to it. At the same time, we have a large project in Norway today that, following an agreement between the LO/NHO and the State, the reduction of sick leave is expected. We believe that there is a need to deploy additional resources for health treatment, both direct treatment and rehabilitation, in order to help reduce sick leave. Figures obtained from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs last autumn showed that approx. 7 300 years of work is lost due to waiting beyond four weeks of operation or rehabilitation. If a person converts this into what it represents in compensation of employees — sick pay — it will be approx. $1.9 billion a year. Sintef-Unimed estimated that the individual holding has a loss of approx. NOK 1 700 per year. Day per day work related to additional administrative costs and production losses in relation to sick leave and waiting in a health queue. We therefore believe it is right that we are now trying to spend more money on medical treatment. We have a high number of doctors in this country. We have a high proportion of nurses working part-time or in other professions. We believe it must be possible to facilitate the situation so that several of these, with their professional competence, are used for patient treatment to a greater extent than is the case now. Since the hospitals became state enterprises, we have seen that the state may not be willing to admit how much money you really need for medical treatment. In fact, I believe that the county council's former operational and ownership responsibility was a sleeping pad for the state. The county councils aged and peaked the operating budgets with funds that were actually to be used in other areas. Now that the state has been given operational responsibility, we must recognise that the quality and efficiency of the specialist health service provide sufficient resources for the benefit of the patient in terms of quality and efficiency. That must be the opposite of asking for a rematch on the health business case. It is an attempt to ensure the functioning of hospitals also during the administration of health enterprises. We're worried that growth is too small in what it's added up to by the majority, and we're adding an increase of 700 million. kr for hospital treatment. We are also making an increase in investment appropriations to enable hospitals to remove bottlenecks in patient treatment by making minor structural changes and the replacement and acquisition of medical-technical equipment that do not require the highest investment. I think it's important that it's that flexibility in the new form of hospital operations concept. That was the main argument. Then we also have to set things right. Let's add 300 million. kr for this purpose, and at the same time we include reimbursement for assisted fertilisation – like the other parties in the Committee – as well as a waiver of excess in case of sterilisation according to medical indications and a grant to the Back network, which is mentioned in the cancellation. We're concerned that psychiatry and cancer and other areas for which there are special bet plans may not have the growth and development that we should see. Therefore, we comment on the situation of the Radium Hospital with new construction and increased radiation capacity and ask that it be resolved as soon as possible. At the same time, we allocate $98 million. $48 million for psychiatry. NOK 50 million for the first line service for the construction and upgrading of municipalities. kr to the second line service, where at least 50 pst. This should be used for the psychiatry area related to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1091	I am pleased to note that the Social Committee is essentially behind today's position. The high level of consensus generated by the suspension provides a good basis for more healthcare and further improvement of healthcare for the benefit of patients. Legislation and policy decisions state that the public should have equivalent access to important health services and that the severity of the disease should be the key priority. Just as this was an important premise when county councils owned hospitals, it is a fundamental prerequisite for health enterprises to operate. This is at the heart of the public mission of enterprises, and it is the premise of the economic measures and efficiency measures taken by enterprises. A key prerequisite for the success of the hospital reform is the development of a culture of better resource use in healthcare businesses. Good use of resources makes health services more accessible, and it is also important for the legitimacy of public health services. Being cost-conscious is primarily about ensuring that resources extend to more patients. I also note that the Social Committee’s attitude indicates that better use of resources was an important objective of the reform. Let me stress that the priorities that have been set in relation to, among other things, psychiatry and cancer, carried out in line with Storting's assumptions. It's not right, as the representative Ballo claimed, that there are few traces of these priorities in the proposition. The proposition contains very detailed guidance for the prioritisation of psychiatry. There is no area of specialist healthcare that is given as clear and precise leadership as just the area of mental health. It will be followed up in the guide to the regional health companies that I will write after this wholesale treatment. It will also be followed up in particular with regard to the situation in the Health East and Child and Youth psychiatry in the Oslo region, as the representative of Ballo mentioned. The appointment of the Committee represents an increase of a total of DKK 2,125 billion for health businesses. Through the strengthening of the basic allocation, regional health establishments shall pay particular attention to the development of patient treatment not covered by the intervention-driven funding scheme, inter alia. the treatment of people with mental illness. Grants for the realisation of the Roadmap for mental health are granted through specific appropriations. The achievement of the objectives and assumptions of the escalation plan is a priority area for regional health enterprises. The escalation plan provides an overall strengthening of the mental health service. The proposed strengthening of the basic allocation of regional health establishments means that the phasing-in plan should be implemented as foreseen in 2002. It is precisely the priority of the basic budget of the Government that is an expression that we are engaged in those parts of hospital activity that are not guided by input-driven funding. Earmarked grants shall be added to and shall not replace the self-financing of the service. We also say that economic gains from professional efficiencies should remain in the sector of mental health. The aim of resource use improvement measures is not to save money, but to allow more people with mental health problems to receive a good treatment. Public health services, like everyone else, depend on inspiration and enthusiasm. The source of this will be to a large extent the health worker’s meeting with the individual patient: seeing the needs and also having the pleasure of seeing what treatment, care and relief means for the patient. But also the overall public health system as a large organisational system needs inspiration. That is why I am pleased to note that healthcare is provided to an extent that never before. The waiting lists were reduced by 5 pst. in the first tertiary this year, during a period when there was also a strike at a number of hospitals for six weeks. The waiting times have been reduced by an average of seven days. My undisclosed claim is that these are indications of a positive development. Hospital reform works. So what does it mean that the reform works? Let me draw out three aspects. Firstly, regional health enterprises must be able to use the potential of overall governance in the region, across the boundaries of which they were previously bound. With different approaches, all five regional health establishments have started to improve their coordinated use of resources in their areas. I allow myself to believe that it has already helped to influence the positive development in the waiting numbers. Secondly, the healthcare establishments, the new undertakings, must make use of the flexibility provided by the organisation of undertakings. I also register here many positive actions and processes that are in progress. My third point is that health care establishments should operate within the framework of a common national health service. First of all, this means that efforts should be made to maximise the equivalence of healthcare provision and outcomes. If health care is to be well developed, targeted overall strategies and concrete measures will have to be taken to improve patient treatment. Let me use one example which will form part of the decision taken by the Social Committee in its position that the Storting should take today, as an illustration of a good link between the overall national strategy and the concrete local measures: Health enterprises have applied modern technologies to varying degrees. There are still a number of hospitals that do not have electronic patient records. Communication between hospital and primary health services takes place mainly on paper. The Government's objective is to change this, so that computer technology is also applied in this area. This is on the way. The first lucky network in a region, Healthnet Nord-Norway, was officially opened by the Prime Minister three weeks ago. So the health services in North Norway are doing this in one coherent network. The ambition is to establish a national health network during 2003 by combining the five regional health networks. We can only know today what possibilities computer technology can offer. The government has proposed to support the use of modern technology by ensuring the financing of dialysis treatment and cell poisoning in Alta, Otta and Örland. The Social Committee supports this proposal – which is a way of bringing the specialist hospital’s professionalism to the patient without having to travel either the patient or the specialist. In my opinion, it shows a little bit of the perspectives that the new technology can give. In addition, this can show us new ways of combining the needs of specialists for a highly professional environment and a proper patient basis with the patient’s desire for treatment without having to travel far. In particular, it is important for patients with long-term treatment and chronic disorders, which is also the basis of the proposal supported by the Social Committee. The hospital reform facilitates a democratically anchored public health service. The implementation of the task itself should be entrusted to those who have the best conditions for doing so: the management and the professionals of undertakings. However, the objectives and framework for the work must be politically guided. Both in the proposal and in the position of the Social Committee, there are a number of premises related to this issue of funding. This applies in important areas, such as mental health and neonatal medicine, where the rapporteur of the case was concerned, and in individual areas, such as: dialysis. If the hospital reform is to succeed, it is absolutely essential that there be a good governance link between services and national political governance. At times, political governance will need to be linked to individual issues. However, there should also be a common ambition for all involved that national policy bodies guide the broad lines of health care development. That is why I very much appreciated the contributions of the representative of Kristoffersen and the representative of Alvheim here today, who clearly underlined these important premises for the hospital reform. The next test will be the presentation and consideration of the 2003 draft budget. It is my ambition that the Ministry of Health should help us to get a health service where businesses can operate independently, but where the national political bodies actually direct the main lines of development. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased with the broad opening of the Committee on a special scheme for assisted fertilisation and an exemption from self-payment for sterilisation in medical indications. This agreement should, in the case of involuntary childless persons, contribute to greater predictability of self-payment in relation to the treatment of childlessness. The proportion that will apply to 2002 following the decision of the Storting assumes that this is a low priority healthcare that should be subject to a higher self-payment than more priority healthcare. Such a graduated self-payment for healthcare would be necessary and natural if, in the future, we were to give priority to the use of resources towards the highest priority services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1129	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1132	The Minister of Health was very concerned with the position of the psychiatrist. However, I must say that both government and opposition are often criticized from among others. the user organisations for missing psychiatry appropriations. I also have to say that this happens despite – I think we have to admit each other – that we have a rather conscientious follow-up to the escalation plan as far as it is possible to judge it, at least from the Storting side. Although the Minister of Health has been very clear in his communications to the health companies, at least in a speech, I have recorded that, and probably also in writing, we see examples of cuts, which the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo had in mind, and which we have seen in the media. Then I want to ask the Minister of Health: is it that the statistics on growth in psychiatry are telling the truth? Or does the Minister of Health have a different explanation that we actually get examples that could indicate cut, as we, among other things. Have you seen the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1139	It should not be necessary for me to remind the Storting that we are soon in the middle of an escalation plan, and that we are not at the end of it. This means that, in the future, we will see clear deficiencies in mental health protection, as we have seen in the past. However, statistics show that more people are getting help faster and that new district psychiatric centres are being developed. There is now a great pressure in the municipalities to expand dwellings. Therefore, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government has proposed more than a doubling of the framework for commitments to psychiatry housing in municipalities. We have announced a very detailed follow-up to the proposal under consideration here today to ensure that the earmarked grants are used in their entirety for mental health, that the earmarked grants should be added and not substitute for self-financing of the service, and that economic gains in professional efficiency should remain within each sector, adult psychiatry and child and youth psychiatry respectively. It's going to be very carefully and conscientiously followed up, not only verbally, but also in writing, and we want to make sure that the companies actually follow this up. To the extent that it does not happen, and we have indications that it does not happen, the Minister of Health will use the means he has to put it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1144	The good salary increase that health professionals, especially nurses, received during the year's wage negotiations, which I personally am very pleased with, will cost businesses between 500 and 600 million. kr. Increased pension costs in this context will cost enterprises between NOK 1 and 2 billion. My question to the Minister of Health will then be: Is it taken into account for these additional salaries and the additional pension costs in the budgets of enterprises, and if not, how will the Minister of Health solve this problem, without prejudice to the treatment services provided by individual enterprises? And let me add from my point of view: it's no problem if the Minister of Health needs support from Stortinget to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1151	A government council should always appreciate an extensive hand offering assistance from Stortinget. However, let me remind you that an important aspect of the hospital reform is that the powers to dispose of hospital resources are entirely in the establishments. This also applies to the human resources and to the responsibility for conducting wage negotiations. The employer's function has been assigned to the enterprises, they are the negotiators on the basis of the budgets allocated to them by the Storting. In the budget statement, there is a basis for wage increases that enterprises must assess when giving their powers to the employers' association they have chosen, namely NATO. I think it is very important that we do not end up in a situation where the bill can be sent to the state automatically afterwards. It will undermine the responsibilities assigned to the undertakings under the new system. Once I've marked this, it's important to make a supplementary remark. Of course, the fact that we have put in place comprehensive systems for the functioning of specialist healthcare does not invalidate my overall obligation to follow-up overall in the development of healthcare, also linked to the issue raised by the representative Alvheim. Of course I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1158	I'm registering the Council's response to Asmund Kristoffersen in the case of psychiatry. What the council says, is that he will cause it not to be cut, as I see it. But it's been cut. The situation described in the children’s and young people’s psychiatry in Oslo is a situation where a decision on cut was taken in February and a 26-million reduction has been made. kr. This can be seen from a minutes of a Governing Board meeting held on 7 June 2002 in Children’s and Youth Psychiatry Oslo Health Enterprises. It says in one of the decisions, in paragraph 2: ‘The Board therefore considers it necessary to require the administration to find room for further reductions in costs equivalent to SEK 8,5 million. This will include a reduction of up to 15 annual works.» Then, of course – I have read the hospital economy proposition – I record what the Council of State describes in relation to this: that the earmarked grants should be used in their entirety for the purpose, that earmarked grants should be added, and that they should not replace self-financing of the service, etc. But what does it do if the Ministry and the Government describe an intention for the use of funds, if what is now practiced by health businesses, is the exact opposite? If what you're doing in Oslo is based on a situation that you think is so dramatic that you have to reduce, it doesn't help much if the council says here that he's going to help that not happen. So you've already cut 26 million. It is clear that it would be quite reasonable for SV to ask what the Council of State has intended to do in a concrete way. to compensate that you've cut by 26 million, as you write in this control line that you've done. In that case, what should be done to ensure that the business returns to the level of intent? How do you actually intend to ensure that Oslo gets the capacity you want? I'll use Oslo as an example here. I don't have a good enough overview of what's going on elsewhere in the country. But there are things, we know from earlier this year, that indicate that the situation is not different in some other health companies. How can we be sure when we come to October that this situation is not further exacerbated?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1172	As I said in my reply to the representative, Asmund Kristoffersen, there will be a letter of guidance sent to all regional companies where Stortinget's leadership, based on the proposition, which I referred to, will be announced in the vote and where they are required to follow these guidelines. To the extent that decisions have been taken contrary to these guidelines, new decisions will have to be taken. As for the situation in the Health East, and the children's and young people's psychiatry in Oslo in particular, I have asked for an explanation from Health East on what emerged from the article mentioned by the representative of Ballo in his statement. I have already received an explanation that will form the basis for such a follow-up as I am now notifying that I will come. However, I would like to stress one thing: the continuation and increase of activity, and the fact that efficiency effects will remain within the sector and not be removed from mental health, cannot mean that each service and every measure should be preserved at the level of activity and with the appropriations they had last year. We also make demands in the escalating plan for conversion, and conversion may have to mean that something goes up and something goes down. But what is important is that the children are given an increased offer and not a reduced offer, and that will be at the heart of my follow-up to Health East and the other businesses at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1188	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1194	The Chairman of the Social Committee referred to in his statement ‘This Famous Proposal’ on the full self-payment of assisted fertilisation. The famous thing about the course of this particular case is that the proposal came in the draft budget of the government of Stoltenberg – relatively little prepared, and as a 100 pst free proposal. self-payment – and then it was misinterpreted as a proposal to impose excesses, as if 100 pst. self-payment with meaning can be referred to as a propensity. But the really famous thing was that after six months the party that promoted the proposal had turned 180 degrees around, and that party the head of the social committee, who had programmed the same position, had also turned 180 degrees around, among other things. because a very well-smelled media and lobbying activity, fully funded by the pharmaceutical industry, had meanwhile been able to make this an important health policy issue. The important thing about this case is that we learn from it and realize that in this way it is not possible to pursue a credible health policy – changing positions from one extreme to the other every six months. If we are to be able to pursue a well-founded approach to health policy priorities, I believe that it is urgent to follow up the proposal made as early as 1997 by the second Health Priority Committee to explore a system of completed graduated use of propensities, which can be justified in such a way that the population can understand why a higher proportion of some health services is placed on the market than is done on other health services. The lesson we can learn from this one thing is that it's urgent to put in place such a system and get general acceptance for such a way of thinking, because that's just the way we'll be able to deal with the really difficult health priorities that lie ahead of us in the years to come. Therefore, I also registered with pleasure that the Minister of Health spoke out so that he wants to follow this up, and I hope that the Minister of Health will continue this matter, so that we can get a consistent system of graduated fractions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1203	Let me first take up the proposal of the Centre Party, which I forgot to include in my article. With five minutes and no repetition, there are some things that a person would like to comment a little bit more. The representative Alvheim, the committee leader, said he was very pleased with the increase in the ISF share, from 55 to 60 p.m., and that everyone had asked for it to be increased. I have a slightly different opinion, and I point out that medical personnel and other professionals have also gone out in the media and said that a stronger increase in the ISF share is very unfortunate, among other things. to chroniclers and patients with complex disorders, especially in the case of some elderly people. So a little bit to this bias between health regions. There have been some questions raised. The SV and the Central Party also have a note in relation to the different levels of activity on which the budgets are based, asking the Government to try to smooth these now with the common pot that is being held back, and I hope that will happen on the part of the Minister of Health. The ambulance service was very focused on in Stortinget for approx. A year ago in the context of an emergency medical report, and I hope that what has now been signaled, that health care businesses have not given priority to the ambulance and emergency medicine, can be snuffed out, and that one gets to put it in place, like the psychiatry. It's very important, as several speakers have been about it. I'm also very concerned about the psychiatry. We have been informed that institutional establishments and extensions have been put on ice, and we have also received a signal that, for example: a newly created DPS in Harstad was threatened with closure. Here I think the Health Minister has actually been involved in the matter, and that it has stopped, but there are worrying signals coming. The center party has a comment about Follo Hospital, and I will not comment on it in any further detail. But it's a case from the 1980s, and I hope it will soon find its solution or get its clarification. The Foundation National Plan for Asthmamoles has been debated in this Chamber before, and it is important that, once the project period is over, the project is provided with permanent resources so that the training for which the specialist health service is responsible can continue and that the school can continue its work. And then I finally want to put the search light on the situation of the Revmatism patients. I hope there's now a clarification here, so that the Revmatism patients get their places at the Rikshospital. There has also been a matter in Stortinget before. A joint committee then assumed that there would be 45 beds in the Rikshospitalet for revmatology and rheumatic surgery, and I hope that we will retain that competence, and that it can be developed instead of being discontinued. It is reported from other regions that there is also a problem for the patients with Revmatism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1220	Ola D. Glötvold has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1223	First, to proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, on page 16 of the vote, which I would like to ask to be converted into a transmission proposal. As far as I know at the moment, the Minister of Health has already intervened, and that this is now taking place, so that the Heart Centre can complete the restoration of the new premises they are going to enter. To the representative of Inge Wohnung I would say that he spoke very well for a Wohnung III. My opinion is that we don't need that, we have more than enough with Wage I and Wage II. Otherwise, it might be interesting to ask the representative a direct question: What experience and experience do you have with people who are childless and cannot have children in a natural way? And if these also have bad finances, they're going to be cut off from having children, like, for example. Me and Inge Wohnung have received? Then I want to go back to the psychiatry. I want to commend the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo and SV who, like myself and the Progress Party, have been very concerned about the development of psychiatry, in particular child and youth psychiatry. I have personally in this room repeatedly assured myself that the psychiatry plan is being followed, and has always been given the answer that it will be. But I have also asked various health ministers to go into this plan to see if maps and terrain are still consistent. I suspect that is not the case. As far as developments and decisions are concerned in the Oslo region are concerned, this is not new. This has been the case over several years, when the Municipality of Oslo has previously abandoned psychiatric services, and has shown that they have established other offers that have been equivalent. And of course it has to be that way. You can't hold on to what you were driving in 1960, it can't be popular, and it can't be up-to-date in 2002. But to the extent that there really is a real decline in psychiatric treatment in the Oslo region, the Minister of Health has a self-instruction authority towards Health East, and I would recommend that he use it if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1234	John I. Alvheim has referred to proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party, to a transmission proposal. The President would also point out that all speeches should be addressed to the President and not to individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1239	It was almost to correct an obvious misunderstanding – I didn't mean to place an order for a Wage III. I fully agree with Mr Alvheim that it is enough with wages I and II, just as it is enough with Oscar I and Oscar II. We definitely don't need any more. What I meant, on the other hand, was to point out that the experience with the course of the case that Alvheim commented on should teach us all, regardless of the point of view of the concrete issue, that this is not the way to deal with the questions. To Alvheim's direct question: I have communicated with a lot of people who are in the situation described by Alvheim. I assume that the representative Alvheim has done the same. He had probably done that too when he stood at the opposite position, which was written in the big programme of the Advance Party. But what we should learn from this matter is that we should not define the question of excesses as the question: nothing or everything – either it should cover everything publicly, or the individual user should cover everything. That's what most people will rightly respond to, because it's a far too square and unfurnished deal with self-payment issues. That's why my position is that if we're going to make a fair use of this as a tool of health priorities in the future – and priority we're going to be forced to do more and more in the years to come – yes, we're going to have to get other tools than the ones we've had so far. One of the tools that can be put into service is to create a system of graduated proportions that includes not only some randomly selected services within the wide range of healthcare services but covers the whole system, and which can be justified in such a way that the majority will automatically find reasonable and acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1250	Let me briefly add some comments to a few questions that have been raised in the debate. The representative Alvheim called for a review and an update of the psychiatry plan. That work has been started by the Ministry of Health. The Directorate for Social and Health is entrusted with such updating and updating between maps and terrain, and the Government will return to the outcome of that review in the draft budget for the autumn. In the case of rheumatism patients, on which the representative of Glutvold was involved, I should just say that based on collected information from Health South, it can be stated that rheumatism surgery department at the Rikshospitalet will not be closed, but transferred to a larger professional community in the orthopaedic department. The offer is maintained both in terms of number of operations and submissions, but the organisation of the department is under change. Health South wants to get good patient outcomes and good resource use within more flexible departments, and therefore a collection of surgical, rheumatological and orthopaedic beds is a step in the right direction. The National Hospital has competence center function for paediatric rheumatology, national function for paediatric rheumatoid arthritis surgery and regional function for rheumatology. These functions will not be reduced as a result of the reorganisation. I think it is important and in line with the best intentions of this reform that health businesses have considerable freedom in the internal organisation of hospitals. In my view, one of the problems with the previous model has been that the owners have been too close to the responsibility of the management in organising. The performance requirements shall be clearly identified by the owners. However, how the results are delivered must be primarily the responsibility of management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1257	When I asked for the floor, it was in the light of something the head of the social committee said related to assisted conception. He challenged SV in relation to full containment. I would like to stress that SV has not gone for it. We have gone for a model that should be in size what the government is now adding to. We proposed it in December. It was a slightly higher number – NOK 23 000 – but we didn't get any support for it, i.e. The Labour Party supported us verbally, but not by granting. The party of progress was in direct disagreement with that. In the context of the review of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, I see that in 1994 the same Alvheim stated the following in the case of adjuncts related to assisted fertilisation: ‘At a time when Norwegian health services are extremely scarce, it would not be right for the public health service to give priority to some of the treatments outlined in the present legislative proposal. This member then thinks in particular of artificial conception which this member does not believe should be a financial responsibility for the public.» So it is that the Progress Party has not only decided that there should not be a partiality in assisted fertilization, but they have also decided that there should not be a partiality in sterilisation, which is what SV otherwise fully agrees with the Advance Party. We are now making a proposal to remove the total excess in terms of sterilisation, but not in terms of assisted fertilisation, because we believe that the term ‘medical indication’ is totally unmanageable. If you want to start distinguishing between social medical conditions and risk factors, you want to red tape on the whole scheme with respect to who should be right and who should not be right. We believe that this is not feasible and that it is inappropriate and conflict-making. The party of progress, which at its national meeting is making exactly the same decision on sterilisation, is not in favour of our proposal to remove the excess for sterilisation. The reason I should have liked to have heard that, as a matter of principle, there is no distinction – as far as I can see – between that and the press release from the National Assembly of the Advance Party on the elimination of self-interests for both. But as far as I can interpret it: when the Progress Party expresses that they have primary and subsidiary voting, there can be no primary position on a particular question that could be put at risk that there had become a majority for it in this Chamber, as it would have been in the case of sterilisation. I think that's a kind of slumber drive that's quite strange. In fact, this is also the case in the case of assisted fertilisation, that it is not ensured by the vote of the Progress Party. It is through the support of the SV and the Workers' Party, because the Progress Party, on the contrary, promotes a completely different proposal. I think Alvheim should be somewhat more subdued as to how to ensure that the proportion falls in these two areas, as the Progress Party itself is not willing to go out with a proposal that had eliminated the excesses in terms of sterilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1273	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1288	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1308	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1328	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 18 and 19 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See page 3533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1357	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party 10 minutes each, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1368	St.meld. No 31 basically has a misleading title. The subtitle «From house to hand» is probably more striking. The upgrading of care for the elderly must continue, as there is a great deal to be done before we have a professionally adequate care for the elderly, where individual users are provided with an individualised care and options if necessary. This is then also underlined and reinforced by a unanimous committee. An increasing number of older people and a higher life expectancy among older people is an intentional development for which we have all wanted and worked, and must therefore not be described or described as an economic problem for the Kingdom of Norway. This creates attitudes that affect the weakest of the elderly in an improper way. On the other hand, the growing number of older people over 67 years of age is a resource that society uses to a small extent, and for me it is a cross-thinking that care for the elderly is not considered to be a valuable asset in society, but always has red figures in the social accounts. An overall social committee agrees with the Government that the physical figures added to the St.meld setting. No 50 for 1996-97 in 1997, achieved. The Committee also agrees with the allocation of the 12 000 new annual works, and the Committee is also pleased that in 2005 a single coverage of 95 pst is achieved. in our nursing home. The Committee also agrees with the Government that a new High Level Communication is being presented in the spring of 2003 on quality, including the organisation of leadership development, skills enhancement, the structure of both open and institutional care. A unanimous committee also requests that the Government of the new notification assess crew standards and recruitment measures. A unanimous committee also concludes that the 1998 action plan has resulted in significant upgrading, modernisation and capacity growth both on the staff and in housing units, and a significant reduction in the large supply gap in municipalities. By the end of that period on 1 October 2001, an additional need had been notified from the municipalities for 9 300 units in addition to previously approved places of 33 400 units. In the Communication, the Government proposes to increase the number of units by 2000 and then with a prioritisation of the municipalities with the lowest health care coverage. After negotiations between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the number of new sick homes is increased by 3000 in addition to the 2000 units that the Government introduced into the notification and then by 60 pst. nursing homes and 40 pst. nursing homes. This adds up to 4,200 new hospitals and 800 nursing homes in addition to the 33,400 units previously approved by the Stortinget until 2005. Opinions have been shared within the Committee on this needs coverage of 31,5 p.m. for day care and care in 2005 for people over 80 years of age, as stated by the Government in the notification, a coverage percentage for day care and care where there are similarities between old-age homes and nursing homes and nursing homes. An overall committee believes that there will be a growing need for more annual work in the care of the elderly up to 2005. As my speaking time is barely measured, in my remaining post I will comment on the message and the setting from the position of the Progress Party. That the measurement numbers are met does not mean that we have a need coverage of 25 pst. for the care and care of the elderly over 80 years of age in 2001, as stated in the Government’s Communication. The party strongly disagrees that the message sets out similarities in terms of day care and care, between old-age homes, nursing homes and nursing homes, and that in this subtle way it is expected to meet needs in 2005 of more than 31 p.m. for the care and care of the elderly over 80 years of age. We're all familiar here with the capacity shortage we have today in hospitals in a lot of municipalities, and the consequences and unworthy conditions that sometimes and too often are revealed in the media. Norwegian Women's Sanitary Association writes about St.meld. No 31 to the parliamentary leaders of the Stortinget that the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association cannot see that the reality of the announcement is consistent with the reality of our oldest elderly and sickest people. This applies primarily to the combination of nursing homes and nursing homes. It is our opinion that the very oldest with great care and care needs for 24 hours a day should have a statutory right to hospitalization. The notification fully confirms the point made by the Progress Party that, for purely economic reasons, municipalities have given priority to the construction of nursing homes rather than to the construction of nursing homes. In fact, hospital coverage has declined between 1998 and 2001. All 73 p.m. of those currently housed in nursing homes are elderly with chronic diseases, age dementia and extensive or moderate functional failure. When one then knows that in most cases these nursing homes are only served occasionally by the home services, everyone must understand that the care situation and the safety status of many of the care providers is not safe. It is therefore disappointing that even the social minister as a professional does not seem to understand what problems this causes too much care in many nursing homes. In particular, this applies to the denture, and in this context I would quote from the medical report from the county doctor in the Nord-Trøndelag for 2001, which states: ‘We see that many dentures live in nursing homes, and we find this highly problematic. In most cases, nursing homes are completely unsuitable for dentures.’ In its Health Notice 2001 the County Doctor in Hedmark states the following: ‘The county doctor considers that if care and the professionalism of nursing homes are not strengthened, there has been no strengthening and quality improvement of the care of the elderly during the planning period.’ I am personally fully in line with both the county game in Hedmark and the county game in Nord-Trøndelag. When will the Social Minister and the majority of the Storting take these supervisory reports seriously? For the whole planning period up to 2005, it is only provided that it is built approximately. 5000 new nursing homes, including parts of the 2000 housing units included in the notification by the Government. At the same time, the hospital coverage in most municipalities will have fallen between 15 pst. and 18 p.s., while the objective of St.meld. No 50 for 1996-97 was 25 pst. coverage of day care and care for people over 80 years of age. The fact is that the Progress Party believes that there are more people in need of care waiting for a sick home place today than in 1998, when the Staircase Plan for the care of the elderly was launched. I am therefore very pleased that the Progress Party has negotiated an agreement with the government parties on an increase of 4 200 sick homes, so that in 2005 we will have an increase of 9 200 new sick homes instead of 5 000. However, I am disappointed that the Progress Party failed to obtain a majority in order to increase the investment grant to the municipalities by NOK 300000 per year. unit for the construction of nursing homes. The Stortinget also treats today a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party proposing that the Health Directorate should draw up standard staffing plans for our public health home. All the reports made in the last 10 years, until the 2001 National Health Inspectorate’s oversight report, conclude that the main deficiencies in the nursing home and the errors found there are justified by inadequate staffing in order to carry out good care for the elderly. In the future, with an increasing number of older people over 80 years of age and treatment options for the elderly, health care homes will increasingly take the form of health care institutions, where demands for professional care are increasing considerably both in the field of medical and professional care. The Patient Rights Act will also have to apply to our nursing homes. As far as I have an overview, the care factor in our public health home has not increased in line with the care weight, neither in medical care nor care. A small exception in this way is the manning at shielded sections for senile demente, where there has been a significant improvement. It is worth noting here that both the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Medical Association and the Norwegian Health and Social Association have strongly recommended the proposal in Document No. 8:114 that the Health Directorate should establish the staffing standards for our public health home. It is therefore highly disappointing that it will not be possible to have a majority in favour of this proposal, even from the parties who write in the vote warmly that the professionalism of the care of the elderly should be strengthened. In an interview on 22 March this year, the vice-president of the Committee, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said: ‘Many call for the introduction of a minimum standard for staffing in the care of the elderly. I also believe that this could be an appropriate proposal.’ I ask then: does not the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen mean this today? The Progress Party has always intended and continues to believe that we should have adequate elderly care and user-driven freedom of choice for the elderly, the state must take full responsibility for funding, and this we look forward to having implemented in less than too many years. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1428	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1431	Through the examination of the current case, the Stortinget will put a stop to the formidable effort on the care of the elderly, which has taken place through the action plan for the care of the elderly. 34 billion is spent over four years. Several governments have taken responsibility and followed up the plan. The original plan has already been extended by 5000 units to 29 400. The size will today adopt a further extension with a new 5,000 seats. Overall, at the end of 2005, municipalities will have completed the construction or upgrading of 34,400 hospital and nursing homes. Large-scale action is possible when it is political will. Good buildings are a prerequisite for care on the premises of users. In the future, parental care will not be characterised by long corridors and eight users per year. Bath. Norwegian elderly care is today characterised by small units, bright and pleasant, with good sanitary conditions and – not least – pleasant common areas for meals and association. Modern building mass is a prerequisite for good care and a good working environment. Once the decision of the Stortinget has been implemented today, we will have provided a good basis for good care for the elderly in Norway. But we've just laid a foundation for it. It is crucial for a future good care for the elderly that today’s debate does not imply that the completion of the action plan for the care of the elderly means that the attention of politicians can be shifted away from the care of the elderly. Good construction not only provides the basis for good care for the elderly. Now all focus needs to be focused on the content of care for the elderly. There is no doubt that there is still a lot of work to be done here. And I'm a little worried about the future. The government considered that the construction of 2000 units was sufficient to complete the action plan. It would be far too small, and the Stortinget must therefore more than double the effort to complete the necessary construction. At the same time, the Government provides for a municipal economy that will far from meet the needs of municipalities for economic development, if it is to focus on the quality and content of care for the elderly. The government says it will bring its own big message about the content and quality of the offer to the elderly in the spring. That's good. Today, the government suffers a clear defeat here in the hall. Even the government parties realize that a construction of 2,000 units is far too small. I would like to signal that the Workers' Party will contribute to the Government's proposal to suffer the same unfading fate in the Storting unless the forthcoming report of quality and content offensively addresses the needs and challenges of the elderly. In particular, let me point to one of the Workers' Party's comments in the setting. This affects the fact that in many of the press areas there is a lack of suitable land for the construction of, inter alia, nursing homes. The working party will do something about it. We want to establish a loan arrangement through the Husbank where municipalities can get interest and discount deferrals on loans for land purchase. A Document No has been promoted. Eight proposals on this in Stortinget. It is important that this proposal is endorsed. We are not as optimistic about the pace as the Government and the majority of the Committee. The pressure in the construction industry and the lack of land suggests, among other things: that we should allow the aftercareers, on the basis of individual deadlines, to search and complete until 2007. One of the most frequently discussed issues when the care of the elderly is on the agenda is the question of whether the care and care of the day can only be provided safely in nursing homes. It was also the representative Alvheim strongly inside his post. The majority states that the extension of the number of units from 2000 to 5000 units should take the form of hospitalisation sites only. The Workers' Party agrees that the development of the last 5000 units should be mainly health care centres, but we believe that there must be a larger room for those municipalities that want to bet on providing luckday care and care in ways other than building a nursing home. For some municipalities care housing will still be right. So we're going to go in for a distribution of the 5,000 places by 70 pst. to hospital and 30 pst. to nursing homes arranged for the care and care of the day. I will admit that I myself have been in doubt as to whether the care and care of luck can be provided in a professionally good way outside the nursing home. That's why I've taken the time to travel around to look at some of what's built through the action plan. I've been impressed by many new and fine nursing homes, with staff present all day. I therefore feel secure about our position on this issue. This debate also includes Document No. 8:114 concerning crew plans at the country's nursing home. I have no problem admitting that I have been skeptical about the proposal to create recruitment standards. This scepticism has its basis in particular in two respects: firstly, the obvious danger of the standard of manning becoming a minimum standard in practice. This will mean that the manning is performed according to a norm and not according to the needs of the users for care and care. Secondly, I am concerned if such a norm applies only to the nursing homes. The danger is that many municipalities will then be forced to build up the home-based care system in order to be able to meet the norm in the hospital, despite the fact that, based on an overall professional assessment, the municipality would rather not build up the home-based care system. Such a reduction will also increase the pressure on the hospital next time. I will admit, however, that I see that manning standards can have their positive effects as well. I share the view of many of the hearing bodies in this matter. Both the Medical Association, the Nursing Association and the Norwegian Health and Social Associations state that crew standards may be a necessary breakpoint to put in place the necessary crew. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee is asking the Government for a broad analysis of the alternatives that will be available to ensure adequate recruitment and staffing of care services, including the care of the elderly. The Committee makes it clear that this investigation must also address the issue of manning standards. Here the Government must do a thorough job, and we in the Workers' Party will not today reject the fact that we can go in to establish such standards. I believe that today is a brand day for Stortinget. Many expressed scepticism as to whether it was possible to implement the elderly care action plan when it was adopted in 1997. We've done that, and then we've done that. Norwegian elderly care now faces new challenges. If we want to, we can do them too. Finally, let me address the proposal that the Workers' Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1473	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1476	St.meld. No 31 sets a worthy sentence for the completion of the action plan for the care of the elderly. The goal of building up the nursing and care places of the lucky day is equivalent to 25 pst. the population over 80 years of age has been reached. The coverage is 31.6 pst., where the coverage is beyond 25 pst. is a buffer because nursing homes vary according to the extent of care and care. The right and the government are pleased that the coverage has been strengthened by the agreement of the government parties and the Progress Party to provide commitments for a further 3000 new health homes. This means an increase of 5000 in total, which has a broad connection to the setting. It has been important for government parties to close the action plan in a good way. The action plan was intended as a shift in the care of the elderly and not as a permanent grant scheme for the municipalities. The broad consensus that emerges from this setting is a worthy ending of a promise that was also started by a total accumulation. The action plan has resulted in a strong upgrading and modernisation and significant capacity growth, both on the personnel side and in nursing homes and housing. The upgrading has led to a much better quality of the building mass of the nursing homes. In the government's message, 45 pst is stated. of the hospital premises will either be newly built or modernised housing stock. The agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party will make this percentage even higher. As expected, the development of hospitals has kept pace with the evolution of the number of older people over 80 years of age. When the external frameworks are soon in place – when the ‘snaker has gone home’, as the Minister of Social Affairs likes to say – quality and content must be at the centre of attention. The time will then come to ensure quality in the form of safe and good care services and jobs. Some patients may be rehabilitated to own homes or to self-help at a lower level than in hospitals after a longer hospital stay. In this context, the Right and Government believe that the need for activation, rehabilitation and training needs to be strengthened in the provision of nursing homes. The right and the government feel it is important that the provision of staff and services in nursing homes is not seen independently of the corresponding offer in their own homes and in nursing homes where the individual wants it. A fixed standard of manning or government approval of manning plans is not similar to the user orientation and adaptation to the needs of individuals for which the Government wishes to facilitate the provision of care services. Manning standards, approvals, may be used as a maximum standard without delay where the need is permanent or for periods greater than the norm. The relationship to individual adaptation and treatment under health and social legislation should be included in such an assessment in order to provide individual care providers with individual care facilities that are individually adapted. This means that the standard of living must be flexible and adaptable to both the nursing home and the other care services. The government has signalled that it will set up a legislative body with a view to harmonising health and social legislation in line with the previous wishes of the Stortinget. In order to avoid interference with the ability of municipalities to exploit and deploy resources where they have the greatest impact, several different organisational models will be assessed. The majority of the Committee therefore calls on the Government of the notified Quality Management Notice to examine the options that will be available to ensure adequate staffing in the care services. Patients in nursing homes have varying needs for care, and the weight of care in nursing homes has increased. The increase in the number of dents contributes to the fact that many elderly people today are very nurturing and caring. The staff situation and organisation in the care sector are very important for employees and their working situation. Although the manning factor has increased, there are still unmet needs in many municipalities. The government will therefore facilitate further personnel growth through growth in the free revenues of municipalities. It is therefore hoped that this year’s pay gap will help recruit more people for the care and care profession. When the action plan for the care of the elderly is finally completed, the slogan is continued «From house to hand». The announced quality reform of the Government should contribute to better basic staffing, more hands at work and better quality. Quality reform aims to contribute to better working and well-being, less wear and tear and thus reduce sick leave among employees, and last but not least better care and care for users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1506	The announcement of the action plan for the care of the elderly is about both the past, the present and the future. I want to focus mainly on futures in this article. With regard to what has happened so far from the adoption by the Stortinget of the action plan for the care of the elderly, it is the SV’s opinion that the impact that was taken at the time was necessary. For this reason, an overall increase in responsibility for the plan’s commitment was also taken, where the country’s responsibility for the costs was also part of the plan. SV acknowledges that the further expansion of housing units in 2000 new locations proposed by the Government is too small. So we're going to take into account the estimate that the county has made on 5,000 new units. This is also the number that an almost unanimous committee has now assembled. There's some disagreement about what kind of places these 3,000 extra places are going to be. For the SV part, we are concerned that this should be places that are arranged for the care and care of the lucky day, because this is where the need is greatest. At the same time, we are concerned that municipalities should be able to develop these places for the care and care of the lucky day in a way that is most appropriate in each municipality. Therefore, SV disagrees with the majority, which consists of the government parties and the Progress Party, which will limit this to being only health homes. Nevertheless, in the question of what needs to be done in the case of buildings and housing units, there is a relatively large consensus in the Stortinget. Then move on to the future. For SV, it is most important to ensure a significantly better quality of care provision to be provided, whether in nursing homes, in nursing homes or in home-based care. That is why it is good that the Government now announces a new big message to come next spring, which will include a new development programme for better quality and simpler schemes. This is going to be a huge and very demanding lift. Many elderly people and caregivers have good offers in their home municipalities, but we also know that too many people find the situation far from being good. The lack of qualified staff in the care and care sector makes everyday life difficult and difficult, and sometimes unworthy both for employees and for users. SV does not accept old age care conditions where elderly and sick people do not get enough food and drink, where they have to stay long in the day or have to go to bed early in the afternoon, or where the possibilities of toilet visits and personal hygiene are far from good enough, not to talk about the need for personal contact and care of many elderly and nursing people, but who because of low staffing and a stressed working day are not well enough cared for. All parties in the committee agree that the time has come to implement measures that can improve these conditions, and then we do not escape the crew. As SV sees it, this is essentially about people and hands to do the jobs. Then we talk about more people and highly qualified people. If we cannot now quickly do something like monks in terms of recruitment and staffing for this sector, we can soon experience a worse crisis in the care of the elderly than we have ever experienced. SV therefore looks forward to an action plan for recruitment to come from the Government after ordering from Stortinget. This is a matter of urgency, and SV expects this work to have a very high priority in the Government. Another important measure that, in the SV’s view, needs to be implemented is a long-term and systematic effort to improve skills and provide opportunities for continuing training in the nursing and care professions. In particular, there is a high need for empowerment at all levels in the care and care of dentures. This is also all the parties that agree. The government alerts, as I said, a big message in the spring of 2003, which will include a development programme for better quality and simpler systems. This SV view is good, just like all of the other games. I could mention several things: Regulations to the Social Health Service Act and the project for management and quality development in cooperation with the KS are examples of this. One measure that SV is somewhat uncertain about is the most appropriate is the issue of introducing manning standards. We fear that a fixed standard of personnel can be an obstacle to a crew that is well adapted to the needs of individual users. That is why, like a large majority of the committee, we would like to have this matter resolved. So far, then, there is a great deal of political consensus in the Grand Duchy about the need for increased quality and, in part, about the instruments to be used. But then it's the end of the political consensus. When it comes to the political will to commit to the costs of this quality reform, the parties separate layers. SV is extremely concerned that the Storting must also take the financial co-responsibility for the reforms and improvements that this enlargement decides and that others will implement. The best and only way to do that is to make sure that Norwegian municipalities that are going to carry out this reform on behalf of us here in this Chamber are financially able to do so. Everything else is irresponsible, as SV sees it. For this reason, SV has, in the processing of this Storing message on the care of the elderly and Document No. The 8 proposal on manning standards made clear that we will also take the financial responsibility for the great promises this means out in the municipalities. It would have been a joyous breach of a practice that has created a lot of frustration in the municipalities, if the Stortinget had already this time already given clear signals about setting up even with money when the reform is to be implemented. But it's at this point the majority in the Great Britain is fundamentally failing. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are consistently evading all the obligatory formulations and proposals relating to the costs associated with the improvement of care for the elderly, which everyone says is necessary. Not only is this irresponsible policy, it is also a policy that is suitable for creating expectations outside of people associated with a reform that is to come, but which then in the next round turns to a solid disappointment because the majority of the population is not willing to pay the price tag. This is a kind of policy that SV will not be involved in. We are disappointed that the government parties do not take the necessary responsibility for the Storting to end up with this practice, which is only suitable for creating political contempt. But this is probably a direct consequence of the arrangement for the municipal economy presented by the government of Bondevik. It has been stated by the Government that this scheme will lead to poorer welfare services in many municipalities. But if that's what the government sees, it should probably not, in the SV's opinion, come up with a big message that gives signals and expectations about a better welfare offer. I am even more disappointed by the Progress Party in this matter. In the opinion of SV, the lot that someone else has tried to appear to be the party of the elderly and the caregiver is running a double bookkeeping that finally hits the weakest. The Progress Party is involved in all the formulations and proposals in this matter which underline the importance of a decent and decent standard of care services, and that is good. SV is pleased that there is a broad political uprising about it. But also the Progress Party jumps off in the turn when it comes to the question of paying the bill. So I know very well that the Progress Party has a different model for financing the care of the elderly than the rest of the parties here at Stortinget: the state price financing. I respect it. However, as long as a solid majority has decided that care and care services should be a municipal responsibility, the Progress Party must also take responsibility for the local government's finances being such that the municipalities can provide the good offer the party will have. Something else is a great discharge – yes, worse than that. When the party does not want to strengthen the local economy because they want a different funding model, it is not the councillors, rapporteurs and municipal politicians who are being hit. No, it's just the weakest of the inhabitants of the municipalities, the elderly, the disabled, the sick and the needy. The party of progress had the chance in comparison with the government of revised, but did not use it. On the contrary, in another debate this morning, the representative Per Sandberg of the Progress Party stated that the small increase in the comparison between the government parties and the Progress Party in the area of the local economy was contrary to the will of the Progress Party. This is to fail the weak groups the Progress Party is constantly claiming to represent. Then I will finally address the proposals SV has promoted alone or together with others in the two matters we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1544	Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1547	The action plan for the care of the elderly began as a cross-political joint project, with slightly different comments and minority suggestions also concluded as a broad cross-political effort. It's a strength for the cause that we at Stortinget can see that we also have the will and the ability to stretch to find common solutions. All parties outside the Center Party sum up that one will go in for 5,000 nursing and nursing homes in order to complete the action plan for the elderly. I think it's a so-called defeat that the Social Minister easily asks. The goal was that it would be 25 pst. One cover. There may be differences of opinion as to whether there is enough, but at least there is no doubt that as most people on the Stortinget calculate the basis for this coverage, with both care and health care homes, it is already well covered in the government's proposal, and it will be further improved with the compromise on the Stortinget. Most of this is to be sick home places, and one is to work for a smoothing of the municipalities between them, so that they all come to the same level, adapt local circumstances. The center part has an aberrant suggestion, which says that all the remaining 9 300 approved applications per. On 1 October 2001, the Commission shall receive a financial envelope. This does not take into account the point of intermunicipalization, which has been a central element, and this will lead to a continuation of the inequality. After this Bure reform has been completed, it is important to take proper care of the contents of the care of the elderly. I do not share the view of the Progress Party that care facilities cannot be used for full-time care. It depends on the crew. I would also like to point out that these statements we sometimes see, how very negative it is in some places in the care of the elderly, may seem to give you a picture that it is pretty bad. I think it's important to say that in essence, we have people in both rented and regular jobs in the care of the elderly who do a good job, and the media presentations that are made can sometimes work unfairly. However, it is enough to address this issue, and it is the co-operation administration, which has warned that in the spring of 2003, it will return to the Stortinget with its own message with a full status of the situation in Norwegian care for the elderly and a new quality programme for care services. There she will, among others. also made an assessment of crew standards or not, as the Committee recommends in connection with Document No. 8:114. The Christian People's Party will not draw conclusions now, but I want to show that there are differing views on whether or not there should be a standard of manpower. Finally, from the Christian People's Party's side, we're going to go through the following: there's going to be over 30 billion dollars in buildings. It has been a large and demanding joint task that has been resolved jointly by the government. The next host, which many people have been in, is to secure a municipal economy that will enable you to run care in a safe way. Most of us see that the more economical reforms that are adopted, the greater the economic space for action of the municipalities, whether one has been in favour of or against the reforms. It's going to be a big joint job for everyone to solve this. However, with reference to the debate earlier today, and with reference to a few previous contributions from the Labour Party and the SV, it has been demonstrated that the local economy to which the Government, in cooperation with the Progress Party, has acted, is at least as good as that of the Labour Party, although something else has been claimed. The question is what input should be covered by the local economy. However, as a recent municipal politician, let me add that this can be good, but it is in no way enough, with the big tasks that municipalities have in the future. There will be a lot of work, regardless of the starting point today, within the responsible framework, for the lifting that is needed for the municipalities to solve this and other tasks. Must do it within a frame and must do it with a calculator. If we're going to operate as politicians without calculators and say yes to all the measures, we're at least coming in spring breakers, even if it's autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1567	As rapporteur-in-chief for Innst. S. No 258, cf. Document No 8:114, I'll explain it a little bit first. The recommendation concerns a proposal from the representatives of Alvheim and Nesvik requesting the Government to place the approval authority for crew plans at its nursing home with the Health Directorate, in order to ensure a professionally sound level of personnel, irrespective of their place of residence. A joint committee recalls that the social committee has on several occasions pointed out that staffing in the care sector is essential for the level and quality of services. The caregivers have a minimum requirement to meet their primary needs, such as: food and drink, hygiene, exercise and an acceptable daily rhythm. Unfortunately, it is too often revealed that institutional residents even suffer from dehydration and malnutrition. The development of home-based care, the provision of nursing homes and a strong growth in the number of people over 80 years old mean that those who are today, and those who become, in the future, hospital residents, have a greater need for both medical treatment, care and care than was the case just a short time ago. An overall committee also believes that the need for activation, rehabilitation and training needs to be strengthened in the provision and provision of services to hospitals. This is important not least because hospitals today have tough printing practices, and there are many who have to enter hospitals for a short or longer time after they have been treated in hospitals. Strengthening staffing will also give older people a better chance of returning to their own homes in the short term. Such rehabilitation has clear positive aspects both in terms of welfare and in terms of economics, believes an overall committee. The staff situation and organisation in the care sector are, in the Committee's view, also very important for workers and their situation. Today’s conditions often lead to sick messages, burnout/inability and ‘refuge’ from the care profession. There is also reason to note that the lack of recruitment marks this area today, and it is clearly reflected, among other things. in decreasing interest in education and training for these professions both at secondary and tertiary levels. In its opinion, a majority of the Committee, all except the Progress Party, is asking the Government in the notified call for the quality of care for the elderly, to be submitted in the first half of 2003, to investigate the alternatives that would be available to ensure adequate staffing of care services. This investigation must also address the issue of recruitment standards both in the case of nursing homes and in the case of other nursing and care services related to different organisational models. This investigation shall also include approval schemes and the approval authority. These are important areas for which there is a large majority. All members of the Committee agree with the rapporteurs that nursing health care workers must be given a professionally sound level, inter alia. in the case of the crew page. However, it is not just to set manning standards and to make approval arrangements with possible sanctioning options that are the solution. That is why the majority of the Committee also requests that this proposal be annexed to the Minutes and does not address the facts of the proposal. It's also like this, for example. The representative, Mr Molvik, said that it is important to strengthen the economy in order to improve the level and quality of care. There is also a need to increase medical follow-up and treatment in the health care area, and that both medical coverage and care needs to be strengthened in order to improve our nursing homes. What one notices, however, is that we separate layers when it comes to a more obligating formulation of the economy. The Centre Party and SV ask the Government to make a thorough calculation and impact assessment of what satisfactory manning standards and a necessary increase in the level of competence in the care and care sectors in general, and in the case of nursing homes in particular, will mean increasing costs for municipalities. The figures and proposals on how to cover this financially are to be submitted in the context of the announced notification of the elderly care and care services in the first half of 2003. Unfortunately, neither the Workers' Party nor the Advance Party follow this up, even if they are in the form of a note in the vicinity of such wishes. I think it would have been right if we had got on the table numbers that show what increased quality costs for once. It would have been to put into practice and get a realistic and binding document on the table, instead of still perhaps getting very many fine wordings and good wishes, but not enough obligating relationships, as we have to have here in Stortinget if we are to follow up our directive to the municipalities in order to get better quality. So a little over to the action plan for the elderly. The issue of parental reform has been important, and it has been a policy of the elderly, as proposed by the Centre before the adoption of the reform in 1998. But the forecasts and needs analyses were too low. The action plan has been extended, first with 9 000 seats, and last year we got an extension by extending the deadline for applying until 1 October last autumn, and after the last distribution – based on the applications available – 9 300 seats remain on the candidate list. The government's response to this is that 2000 sites will be built. After the agreement with the Progress Party, there will be 3000 places in addition. Nevertheless, 4300 posts remain, which will not find their solution within the framework of the reform and financial instruments. Both the Government and a joint committee underline the responsibilities and the freedom of municipalities to design their own housing and services according to local circumstances, in relation to the needs of the inhabitants and in cooperation with the individual user. The expectations both at municipalities and at users have been high, but these expectations become a disappointment for almost half, on the basis of the applications currently in place. The objectives of the Elder Plan have been achieved, as stated in the Communication. I mean it's not that when 4,300 places are not realized. All counties have growth in the age group over 80. It's municipal variation, but it's still about that. 200 applicant municipalities point to unmet local needs and these local needs should be taken seriously. So instead of giving the municipalities the opportunity to follow up their plans, 4 300 places are deleted from the candidate list. The need will increase. We know that the evolution of age in the future means that we're getting even more 80s and those who are older. We all know these numbers based on what's also in the message. Outsourcing from hospitals and specialist health services means that hospitals will also be the relevant arenas to place people on surveillance, medical follow-up and rehabilitation, and it also creates an increased need for hospitalised areas, most at the hospital level. The choices for the individual elderly and care professionals have also been focused on here in this room by enabling the individual elderly and caregivers to choose the host municipality and place of residence, but there must be a space capacity to accommodate this, otherwise there will be only speech modes. We're all saying we're going to have that freedom of choice, but what do we do with it? It is disappointing that, among other things, The Progress Party, which wants to act as the guarantor of the old age policy, does not participate in a greater execution of the applications currently pending. It turns out that it is verbally good wording, but the reality of the proposals shows that it is not follow-up and responsibility to solve the problems that are often pointed out, and rightly so. Then it's time to suggest that there's a black teaser game that's out there and going here. The municipalities are left with the blame. But Stortinget does not take its responsibility either. I also thought that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party should be involved in a better coverage. Not least, I am disappointed with the Christian People's Party, which stood with us last spring with clear formulations on how to meet the need for development and the goal of care places. When the Government responds to 9 300 applications by complying with 2 000, it is alarming and must be able to be described as an unheard-of response to the needs of municipalities and applications. While the government is in a position to defeat its own proposals in the communication, the outcome is significant for those in need of accommodation and care, and there is no need to do so. Then there is a faint comfort that it is a political defeat for a government that has presented too bad a message here, in my opinion. I have to get back to the staffing needs in the case, but it is clear that we also need more people than the government puts up in this message. Finally, I am promoting the proposals put forward by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1609	Ola D. Glötvold has promoted the proposals to which he has referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1612	In the 1990s, parental care was lagging behind the strong growth in the number of older people in need of care and care. A solid Norwegian navigable roof was therefore necessary to change this. The action plan for the care of the elderly was launched in 1998 with a broad disintegration in the Stortinget. There was a need for a strong expansion of capacity both in the case of personnel and buildings, and for upgrading and improving the quality of old building materials. A central requirement was to remove the double rooms in the age institutions and to offer exclusive space to all those who wanted it. The action plan is now completed, and I am pleased that there is a broad upturn also in this conclusion. However, this does not mean that we will end work with Norwegian elderly care. Now is the time to switch the main focus from buildings and annual works to quality and content in the service offer – «House to hand», which we put as the sub-title of the notification. Over the period 1998–2001, care and care services have contributed 13 000 new staffing units, and the total supply of old-age homes, nursing homes and nursing homes has increased by 10,850 housing units. Both staff and housing services are growing faster than the growth in the number of older inhabitants. Nearly half of the projects are under construction and will be used for the next four years. Therefore, in assessing the final outcome of the action plan, we need to look to 2005 as far as possible. A forecast of the final result in 2005, before the last 5000 housing units are allocated, indicates a total coverage of 31,6 residential and care homes per year. 100 inhabitants over 80 years, compared with 26.4 when the action plan started. At the same time, almost 45 pst. are either newly built or upgraded and modernised by all hospitals in Norway. The one-room coverage will be about 95 pst, against 83 pst. before the action plan. The action plan has therefore achieved its objectives and ensured that care for the elderly has kept pace with the growth in the number of older people and created further capacity growth. This has also been absolutely necessary to re-establish some of the neglected and to lay the foundation for the further development of the coming years. It is my opinion that municipalities have taken the challenge and contributed to a national shipper’s roof for the care of the elderly. For the country as a whole, the results of the action plan represent major changes. The pattern of expansion appears to follow these main lines: The development of nursing homes is keeping pace with the increase in the number of older people over 80 years of age, the implementation of health homes is being upgraded and the modernisation of large numbers of old-age homes is being closed down and replaced with care housing coverage is increasing primarily in the form of growth in the number of nursing homes with the common service area development of new nursing homes followed by recruitment in the home services In 2005, the total offer will consist of 60 pst. nursing homes, 5 pst. old-age homes and 35 pst. nursing homes. If we see the country as a whole, the hospitals are still the most important offer. Through the action plan for the care of the elderly, municipalities have been free to design and develop a service offer tailored to local circumstances and needs, and to choose organisational solutions and service models themselves. This has resulted in some municipalities having chosen to invest in nursing homes, while others have chosen to expand nursing homes and home services with good luck. There is currently an exciting development in municipalities, where the best of two different traditions is melting. Soon we will no longer see any difference between modern, small nursing homes with high standards of living and local housing and care centres. We have received nursing homes with standard care and nursing homes with health care facilities. Nearly all new nursing homes are now being built with common land and in connection with health and social personnel premises. At the same time, new models are being developed for the construction and operation of nursing homes with good exclusive spaces, organised in small housing groups with their own common functions. In this way, experience from institutions and more open care are combined. The challenge lies in developing offers that provide both security and individual adaptation to individual needs. However, it is not the form of residence, but the staff that is essential for the possibility of providing a day-to-day service. It is therefore reassuring that the development of nursing homes is followed up with home-service staff. More than half of the 13 000 new staff posts that have been built up in the last four years have entered the home service. I have noticed that the need for further personnel growth is underlined in the committee setting. The government is set to facilitate it through growth in the free income of municipalities. Today, the services offered in nursing homes and nursing homes are regulated in two different laws. There are different complaints and rights rules, and the payment systems are completely different. As the provision of services in hospitals and nursing homes increasingly overlaps, it is also necessary to oblige municipalities to ensure the same conditions and rights for users irrespective of their residence. The government will therefore set up a legislative committee for better harmonisation of municipal health and social legislation. Furthermore, we will review and evaluate the user payment schemes. A user-oriented service requires simpler arrangements and a more uniform legal framework that provides real freedom of choice and services tailored to individual needs and needs. The elderly care action plan has also resulted in greater diversity in housing, operating models and organisational solutions adapted to the different local conditions and needs. At the same time, the action plan has helped to create greater equality in the overall provision of services between municipalities by raising the municipalities with the lowest coverage. Through firmer governance and clear prioritisation in the allocation of the grant framework, the Government has ensured better distribution between municipalities. By lifting all, but most of the lowest municipalities, geographical differences are evened out. When the Government found it necessary to extend the action plan to include a further 2,000 new hospital and nursing homes, it included: to enhance such a profile. Before the action plan can be concluded, all municipalities that have applied for it shall be given the opportunity to build up an offer of lucky day care and care equivalent to 25 pst. by the population aged over 80, whether provided in nursing homes, old-age homes or nursing homes. The proposal of the majority of the population for a further 3000 hospitalisation sites means that we can accept several hospital applications. At the same time, the majority of the social committee emphasises that municipalities with the lowest coverage should be given priority. The priority given by the majority of low-covered hospitals and municipalities is in line with the priority set by the Government to allocate the already agreed commitment framework for this year. The extended framework will be allocated to projects in the municipalities on the basis of the majority of the Committee's leaders. There are still many and major challenges and unsolved tasks in the care of the elderly. Once completed, they will be more concerned with quality and service content than with buildings and capacity. The supervisory authorities frequently detect failures of basic procedures in some nursing homes. Many older people do not receive the services they require under health and social legislation, the medical follow-up is often inadequate, and parts of the services are struggling with lack of recruitment. The Government will therefore replace the action plan for the care of the elderly with a development programme for better quality and simpler systems of health and social services, with the following main elements: simpler and better harmonised legislation on health and social services facilitates funding and sharing of payments for health and social services management and organisational competence and quality of recruitment and internal control obligations for exclusive dealing and legal security follow-up and advice When all the new buildings are completed in 2005, the external frameworks are in place and there is time to change the focus and focus on further work on the content and quality of services. The government aims to present its own forecast of growth in this spring 2003. There, the government will also explore options to ensure adequate staffing in the care services, such as the majority in the nomination of Document No. 8:114 asks. The government wants to take as its starting point what individual users of the care service themselves experience as good quality. This means that in the middle of the day of treatment and rehabilitation in the care services, we must not lose sight of the ordinary life. No matter how we feel, most people appreciate the smell of freshly baked bread or good music, and until recently we depend on human proximity and warmth.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1709	We are currently experiencing a rebellion in Kommune-Norway. The majority have seen delegations of rapporteurs in despair come to Oslo and report on a very tight municipal economy, and the review tone of the Kommune-Norway is that if we do not do anything to strengthen the local economy beyond what is now at stake, we are not able to maintain the welfare offer. The size today adopts 5000 new units. But it's not the Stortinget that's going to the Municipality of Norway to build these 5,000 units, it's the municipalities that are going to do. Even if we then send a state grant, it is obvious that if the hospitals are to be built, it means that the municipalities have the financial capacity to contribute to building themselves. With this in mind, there is reason to express concern about whether the decision of the Grand Duchy today, linked to the construction of 5,000 new units, will actually be realised. My question would then be: When the Council of State is in contact with Kommune-Norway, who has applied to build more new units in the care of the elderly, does she feel safe, with the local government's government, that when we meet in 2005, we have actually got 5,000 new units?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1718	In the light of the applications made to the Ministry of Social Affairs, I also assume that the municipalities have given priority when they want to expand and need it. It also shows the experience of the development that has already taken place, that municipalities have the ability to give priority to care for the elderly. It's not just about being able to build, but it's also about being able to drive and operate. The government, through the arrangement for the municipal economy, which has also been discussed here earlier today, has committed itself to growth in the free income of municipalities, and experience shows that municipalities have followed up both on the construction side and on the personnel side. Economics are a prerequisite for good care services, but other aspects are also important. I also see that we have comparable holdings – hospitals – with the same financial framework, with the same staff loss, with a patient equal number of residents, who get different from old age care.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1725	It must have been a delay on the part of the Minister of Social Affairs when she says that we are now going away from buildings and yearwork and over to quality. Quality and annual work are closely linked. But there was hardly any delay when the Minister of Social Affairs said — and I think it was bold — that ‘home development keeps pace with the increase in the number of older people over 80’. This is not right, Minister of Social Affairs! Will the Council confirm this in its reply to me? During this reform, there has been a significant forced movement of elderly sick people miles away from the care and care they received in their home municipality or at their place of residence, and not rarely do couples move and divorce with little possibility of further contact. I mention here the hospital in Lavik, to take an extreme example, but there are many of these all over the country. If the Minister of Social Affairs believes that this is the right thing to do, will the government to which the Minister of Social Affairs belongs go in to change the ritual of marriage, which today says, 'until death separates you', and change it to 'until death or the Commune separates you'?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1736	Yes, so far the expansion – when we get to 2005 and the plans we have – has kept pace with the increase in the number of older people over 80 years. But it's clear that we're going to follow this closely. That's also our intention. We have not finished following up and focusing on both capacity and quality in the care of the elderly. I fully agree with the representative Alvheim that quality is also closely related to personnel, and it depends on both competence and sufficient personnel. I will not go into the specific matter in Lavik, but I share the opinion of the representative Alvheim that it is the municipalities that are responsible for managing the care of the elderly. We will also follow closely the follow-up of care for the elderly in each municipality, because it cannot be managed in a way that does not manage the legislation. You have to be able to combine it with both your heart and your head.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1743	SV is, as I said in my main post, happy that next year the government will deliver a big message that deals with the quality and content of care for the elderly. We're not satisfied with the state as it is. This is the government well known from several debates about this here in the Chamber earlier. Nor does it seem surprising to the Council of State that SV is seriously concerned about the ability of municipalities to implement the proposed measures and to create the necessary quality. In SV we have been open to look at solutions together with the Government and government parties here in Stortingen to try to find solutions also on the economic part of the elderly effort. But as the situation is now, this doesn't really work. In its financial arrangement for municipalities next year, the government says that the arrangement is getting so tight that the welfare offer can get worse in many municipalities. I expect that this tightness will apply not only to 2003 but also to the years thereafter if this Government is allowed to sit. It's becoming more and more obvious that this tightness is part of a larger strategy. At the same time, the Government, by the Minister of Social Affairs, is now notifying in St.meld. No 31 that it will provide measures to improve the welfare of older people and caregivers in municipalities. Then this is starting to be hard to understand. These double signals mean that care and care sectors will be protected for the years to come, and that the deterioration in quality will thus have to be similarly more severe in other sectors, such as the environment. school and kindergartens, or how is this to be understood? I would like the Council of State to explain this both to me and perhaps to others here in the Storting who are asking about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1750	I expect that we will not take the next year's budgets under this case. I also believe that the Storting supports that we should have a job that goes on the content of the care for the elderly, that is, what will happen after the carpenter has gone home, and that this should not conflict, that we have an ambition to do better. We need to look at the law, look at the supervisory systems, the rights, the funding mechanisms and focus on what is going on in the quality of care for the elderly. Then, in the local economy, which has been treated earlier today, we have added to the growth of municipalities in terms of free income. We see from experience that the municipalities are actually able to prioritise and do good work. We also see that the quality of care for the elderly is very variable even if you have the same framework conditions, which is probably due to completely different circumstances than economics. But of course, economics is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1765	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 18 and 19. [[Votation, see pages 3533 and 3534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1784	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1800	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur and 5 minutes to one representative from each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is John I. Alvheim – for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1811	The sitting Bondevik government did not find a million pensioners and disqualified dignity to be invited to the payroll party we have all experienced in the last few months. The negotiations on the social security settlement of the year between pensioners’ organisations and the state took place on 15 and 16 May. Negotiations were broken on 16 May. Pensioners' organisations provided the Storting's assumptions in the budget. S. No 11 on the ground that one should take into account both the expected and historical wage developments in determining the basic amount. During the negotiations in 2001, it was decided to base a wage increase from 2000 to 2001 for all groups of 4 pst. An increase of G of 4.6 pst was agreed during the social security scheme in 2001. The organisations assume that 0.6 pst. was intended to cover part of the previous aftermath. In order to cover the gap between the evolution of the basic amount and the annual wage growth for all groups in 2001, organisations required that the basic amount be adjusted by 0,8 pst from 1 May 2002. The organisations have argued that the regular payroll would increase between 5 pst. and 6 pst. for all groups in 2002. The organisations also showed that the calculated wage growth in two previous social security settlements had been lower than actual development. Based on this, organisations required an increase in the basic amount of 6 pst. Added reduction of 0,8 pst. from the previous year, the final requirement was 6,8 pst. The organisations referred to the under-regulation of the basic amount that has taken place over a number of years, pointing out that this would have led to a significantly lower base value than provided for at the time of the establishment of the public interest. The State submitted a proposal for an increase in the basic amount of DKK 2,810, or 5,2 pst., based on an estimated salary increase for the economically active population of 5 pst., which was taken into account in the revised national budget for 2002. This implies that the school’s settlement is excluded. Organisations could not accept this offer. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party, held their meeting in Innst. S. No 272 supported the Government’s proposal for an increase in the basic amount of NOK 2810, the same offer that the organisations rejected on 16 May. Another majority, the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, state that once the Stortinget has decided that G should be regulated at least in line with wage developments, compensation must be paid for the delay of the previous year. Thereafter, the expected wage developments during the negotiation year shall be added. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party propose that the Government submit a case on the guidelines for social security settlement so that new guidelines can be adopted prior to the social security settlement in 2003. This proposal will subsidize the Progress Party. Both the SV and the Centre promote proposals for a higher increase in the basic amount than the government parties and the Workers' Party. SV will increase G by 5,8 pst., corresponding to 3,270 kroner, and the Centrette by 6 pst., corresponding to 3420 kroner. The Centre Party also proposes a five-year escalation plan for the minimum pensions, to be submitted before the social security settlement in 2003. Otherwise, I leave to the respective parties to present my view of this year's social security settlement. The progress party believes that the result of this social security settlement is another blow to the face of the country. one million pensioners and disabled persons. In our opinion, the government has failed to comply with the decision taken by the majority of the population last autumn that the development of G should be at least in line with wage developments. The exclusion of some groups with very good wage developments from the calculation of wage increases does not belong anywhere. In this way, the Government can at any time pick out the groups that will contribute to the increase in salary growth and ensure that the basic amount is kept at a level appropriate to each government at all times. This approach has something to do with political attitudes in relation to the older generations. I am very disappointed by the unwillingness of the government parties to ensure that the country's pensioners are treated equally with other groups in this country. But I am most disappointed, however, with the representatives of the Workers' Party, who clearly, very clearly, have expressed compassion for those pensioners who have a difficult economic situation and each day have to assess their economy. I actually believed in the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen when he said last year, December 12, from Stortinget's pulpit: ‘We see that many of those living in social security have to go to the Social Security Office to get benefits in addition to social security. This is necessary in order to address both the fixed and the current costs. We can't have it that way. That is why we need to ensure that we regulate the performance of people's rights annually in line with cost developments, regardless of which system we will receive in the future." This is obviously forgotten by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen from the Workers' Party today. On the Internet pages of the Workers' Party, the following opinion was delivered by the same Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen: ‘The government has done a bad job for the pensioners’ And on the other hand, «The government has also provided the pensioners with a meagre settlement. I have a great understanding that the pensioners are dissatisfied with this." Minimum pensioners and disability pensioners with very little to live on cannot live by the understanding of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. This is a betrayal I can imagine that many good, old workers' selections have hurt to accept. In the evening post of 5 January this year, the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen acknowledges that the Labour Party has lost confidence in social policy. He also pointed out that Bondevik was going in the wrong direction. ‘In these questions, we are going to see clear ideological lines between Ap.’s policy and the government’, he said in the Evening Post. In the social security scheme, the dividing lines are completely erased. The Labour Party fully supports the Government’s proposal, despite the recent writing by the representative Asmund Kristoffersen in an article: «The period of under-regulation of pensions in relation to wage developments in society must be over.» For me, it is difficult to understand that the government has no more concern for the many with small pensions who are struggling hard to cope with today's expensive Norway. A prime minister of the Christian People's Party, who himself says he sets the human dignity very high, must have forgotten this when he forgets that disabled and minimum pensioners also depend on G developing in line with other wages. Once again, I have to say that it is only the Progress Party that takes a million Norwegian pensioners seriously and that wants them to share in the wage developments that others are receiving. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Progress Party, and at the same time announce that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1870	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1873	Let me first say that I believe there is every reason to criticize the Government for the year's social security bill being transmitted to the Stortinget only on 7 June. There was a breach of negotiations with the pensioners' organisations on 15 May. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that the government then waits until 7 June before the matter is dealt with in the Council of State. This is a big and important matter, and we in the Labour Party believe that we have in no way had enough time to give the matter as thorough a treatment as we wanted. This year's social security settlement is met by many with extra tension. It is, of course, related to the fact that, in the course of the budgetary procedure last autumn, the Storting decided that the social security settlement of the year must ensure that pensioners regulate the basic amount ‘at least in line with’ wage developments elsewhere. Through this decision, Stortinget meant to provide a clear guidance on how the Government was to handle the year’s social security settlement. In the past, the guidelines have given the Government greater scope for action, because the regulation of G should be «in line with» the wage trend. As usual when Bondevik is a prime minister, there is no way to reach an agreement on social security. Pensioners’ organisations have broken the negotiations for the year because they believe that the government’s offer was too bad, not least in the light of the new leaders from the Stortinget. The central point of today's debate is this: Has the Government followed up this year's social security settlement decision on the regulation of the basic amount? The government claims it has. It indicates that last year G was regulated by 4.6 pst. Wages and salaries development was 4.8 pst. So it's going to be 0.2 pst. In the revised national budget, wage developments for the year are estimated at 5 pst. An offer of 5.2 pst. is therefore a regulation of G in line with other wage developments, according to the Government. I believe that this is the wrong way to calculate. The lag must be calculated by defining the difference between the expected and actual wage developments of the previous year. It gives a lag from last year of 0.8 p.m., which in turn suggests that the year's settlement should have given the pensioners a regulation of G of 5.8 p.m. – and not 5.2 pst., given by the Government. But I acknowledge that the Stortinget has not provided any clear description of how this lag should be calculated. Therefore, the Government claims that the decision of the Stortning is fulfilled, and when the Storting has not been unique, it is difficult to say that the Government has clearly broken the Storting’s assumptions. I am therefore very pleased that the Workers' Party will have a majority in favour of its proposal that the Government should present a case in which the Stortinget can adopt new and more unambiguous guidelines for the social security settlement prior to the social security settlement next year. This work must include, inter alia: in a clear common understanding of the way in which the suspensive action is to be calculated. Other lots respond to the fact that the Workers' Party does not consider it appropriate that this year the Storting should review the Government and determine G at a level higher than that proposed by the Government. It is an important principle for the Workers' Party that it is the Government that conducts negotiations with the pensioners' organisations. The size shall lay down the guidelines for these negotiations. If the Storting believes that the guidelines have not been followed, the Storting must, in our opinion, send the settlement back to the Government. The working party has seriously assessed the basis for proposing such a treatment this year but has concluded that the guidelines are not so unambiguous as to provide the basis. This is why we want to review the guidelines, so that the Storting has the necessary basis for such a decision next year — if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1899	For SV, it has been important that social security is settled in a way that compensates for the increase in wages and prices. This means that each year, according to SV’s vision, the basic amount shall be adjusted on the basis of two components. One is the expected wage and price increase when viewed together in relation to all occupational groups. I fully agree with the considerations of the chairman of the Social Committee, who says that if you start drawing out individual groups in order to create a different basis for calculation, you have a situation where it is not the general wage and price increase you face, but an adjusted wage and price increase. There would be a disagreement, of course, so that, in order to ensure the development of purely income for pensioners, the general wage and price growth would have to be followed. So there's one component that's important. Then it's important to get a basis for calculating this that's indisputable, so you don't start discussing from different sizes because you disagree with what the expected wage and price growth would be. So we have to have clear rules on this. The second component will be the difference between the expected wage and price increases and the wage and price increases that then turned out to occur. From the SV side, we have to say that it ran as the government here runs from what the Storting has assumed, is a strange race in many ways. So you can make a presentation based on the last compensation of 0.6 pst. in the difference between expected wage and price increases and real wage and price increases on previous settlements, as if an amount higher than that actually achieved in the case of expected wage and price increases in the last year. You can't handle it that way. It must be much clearer as the pensioners' organisations themselves have suggested, that they first compensate for the difference, and then go directly in and look at the expected wage and price increases for the year to come. For SV, when you add up the two dimensions, the same thing that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen put two lines under, that's 5.8 pst. You could have done the same thing as the Progress Party does, and sometimes the Center Party, that's to compensate for it. But we see that if we're going to do that, we're going to have a significant additional increase in expenditure, which we're not prepared to take this year. We in SV are not prepared to do this either, as we see that the Progress Party and the Central Party are in favour of compensating for the underregulation that has taken place over many years by 2007. You have to do it in other ways, and you have to do it over a longer time horizon. But we want to be part of it. For this reason, it is important for SV to use the wording of a majority of the Social Committee before Christmas: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the regulation of the basic amount of the social security settlement for 2002 is carried out in such a way as to regulate the basic amount at least in line with the wage and price developments of the rest of society.’ So the government hasn't done that in this settlement. Then it becomes important to change the guidelines unequivocally so that they come along. That is why, together with the Progress Party and the Centre Party, we are joining in on a proposal for a wording in which it is included. We also agree with the Labour Party that the rules should be reviewed in general, but with regard to the guidelines, it should nevertheless be possible to make the change that clarifies this already now, because we must avoid the unworthy situation that we again, until next year, do not receive the adjustment that has been proposed and that the Stortinget has also adopted. Here I agree with the committee's chairman that the Workers' Party's handling of this matter is being very fragmented. You say you should be there and make sure, but you don't. It is clear that, from our point of view, the Labour Party should at least have been involved in the proposal we are promoting, which is, of course, an adjustment at least in line with the wage and price increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1923	In the negotiations on social security for this year, the State submitted proposals to increase the basic amount by 5.2 pst. with NOK 2810. This means that the basic amount was increased from NOK 51 360 to NOK 54 170. The revised national budget for 2002 provides a basis for a wage increase from 2001 to 2002 of approximately EUR 15 million. 5 pst. for all groups when the special pay gap for teachers is kept outside. The majority decided last fall that the basic amount should be regulated at least in line with wage and price developments elsewhere in society. The Christian People's Party believes that increasing the basic amount on average by 5.2 pst. is consistent with the Storting decision to increase the basic amount at least in line with wage and price growth elsewhere in society. It is important that one of the social security institutions builds on the same economic developments as others in society. With the background of previous years, my Christian People's Party and the other parties, all outside the Progress Party, state that there is a basis for reviewing and reviewing the guidelines again. It is not good for a person to have a discussion about understanding content and guidelines. And then you'll get a different starting point for the estimation of percentages and heads. I hope that one can arrive at a broad agreement on these guidelines and their understanding if one feels it necessary to change them. It's the Stortinge that adopts the guidelines. The government's responsibility is to discuss with the organisations on the basis of the same guidelines. It is important that those who run the things on both sides try to get a subscription result and take advantage of that institution, and not too quickly send the case over to the Storting. It might seem that, for someone who is a little out of the way, those who were negotiating from the social security recipients, something happened this year. I think they would have thought maybe they'd gone one more round or two. The representative, Alvheim, has risen quite high in violent attacks on the particular Christian People's Party, which has the Prime Minister, and was able to establish that it is only the Progress Party that takes the retirement list seriously. Well, the Progress Party has a great commitment to the retirementists -- I'm going to admit it -- but I think I might have to use the expression 'especially self-righteous' when the Progress Party can use such an expression about the Prime Minister in particular, but generally about all the other political parties. I thought it would go across all bounds when one characterizes others, and that there is only one party that takes the retirementist seriously. I can't do it! We may have different views about size, we may have different views about bets, but to claim that it's the only ones – I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1936	It's getting late, and I think we have relatively little time to deal with a very big and significant case for many of the country's inhabitants. These amounts are large, although perhaps the individual feels it is too poor — and the result adopted tonight is too poor. But the large amounts refer to the proceeds that this case has in sum, and then it's big money. The parties and the State met on 12 April. On 15 and 16 May there were discussion meetings and negotiations, and it was broken. I agree with the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that it becomes a little hopeless when we get this matter through the Council of State not until 7 June and will deal with it relatively quickly – and perhaps even almost irresponsiblely. Nevertheless, in the Center Party we have taken a position. I think what was said is a little bad excuse for the Workers' Party's position, but we believe that we too – as an advocacy to what the representative Alvheim was about here – take the pensioners seriously. A majority of the Committee agrees that the guidelines for this approach and these discussions should be reviewed. Therefore, we hope that we will get a case back from the Government, where it provides guidelines for social security settlement in such a way that it can be taken into account as early as the next spring when this is about to happen. In the vote, the majority of the committee – all except the Right and Christian People's Party – refers to what was adopted at the Inn. S. No 11 for 2001–2002. It says: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the regulation of the basic amount of the social security settlement for 2002 is carried out in such a way as to regulate the basic amount at least in line with the wage and price developments of the rest of society.’ We believe that this has not happened in this settlement, and that the state is making too bad an offer in that context. Firstly, we believe that the average wage growth from 2001 to 2002 is more than 5 pst. Then there's a discussion about what should be regulated in terms of under-coverage and lag and the more technical that comes in here. It's at least a sub-coverage of 2 pst. if one looks at the level of pensions and the level of the income framework for ordinary employees. Organisations believe that there should be an adjustment to the basic amount of 8 pst. to cover the deviation, and there is also a discussion whether the teacher settlement should be kept within or outside that settlement. In sum, at least we believe that there is a basis for inputting a growth in the basic amount of 6 pst. This means that 1 G from 1 May 2002 should be 54 780 kroner. We also wish to improve the situation of minimum pensioners and to promote a proposal in this context. The Central Party strongly contributed to a raise for the minimum pensioners in settlement on 1 May 1998, and we believe that the Government should now come back with a plan to increase the minimum pension income over a period of five years, and that this plan will be submitted to the Stortinget, so that we can decide on it before the social security settlement in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1956	I do not know whether the term "skin sanctuary" is in parliamentary form. But after reading the Committee's comments on social security, I have found that the Government has not followed the Storting's instructions to ensure that the adjustment is at least in line with wage developments in society. Nevertheless, the majority accept a new underregulation of G. Then the word "skin sanctuary" is what best describes the committee comments. Only the Christian People's Party and the Right believe that this underregulation is satisfactory. The Christian People's Party, which, in 1997, has begun its five-year non-statutory relationship with the Progress Party, with a promise of a further DKK 1000 to the minimum pensioners, and which has since taken in this thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-th century by way of under-regulation, tax and tax increases, does not, in addition, accept the Grand Duchy's obligation to increase the basic amount in the first place in order to follow the evolution of prices and wages in society and, through annual adjustments in addition to the increase in prices and wages, ensure that the slowdown, for which the Labour Party bears the primary responsibility, is re-established. Since 1997, the Christian People's Party has been jointly responsible for every budget that has been adopted, and they have not found room for a single year for pensioners to receive the pension they have been promised and for which they have been required to pay the levy. As the Storting last year did not raise the basic amount in addition to the Government's proposal, the reason was that no intervention should be made in an agreed agreement. This year the pensioners broke the negotiations and put their trust in Stortinget, and it undertakes. The Coastal Party will primarily support the proposals of the Progress Party, but recognises that this is not feasible. We would recommend to the other parties to gather about one of the alternatives that are then available, which will be a step in the right direction towards fair pensions. We believe that there should be room for the bulk of the population to support the proposal of the Central Party that is closer. We can't take care of ourselves in this house that the best thing is to be the enemy of the good, and that, based on the need for our own party marking, we allow the pensioners to be left with the blacks again. When the Government does not want, the opposition must be able to gather to improve the living conditions of pensioners. They have done their duty, and now they have to get their right. It is under the old Workers' Party slogan ‘Do Your Duty-Require Your Right’ that our pensioners have built the basis for our well-being. It is shameful whether the Workers' Party will also help them to obtain the right of old age. The legitimacy of the oil fund is based on the fact that the return from the fund is to safeguard pensions. It serves the Stortinget little credit if we now, when there is political agreement to phase the fund return into the annual budgets, do not put the pensioners' paid rights first. It is in stark contrast to the Storting's own pension scheme. I would like to remind you that an upgrading to the level foreseen in 1967, far on the way, compensates for the excruciating difference between gross pensions and other pensions. The difference would then be that other pensioners would have to work for 40 years in order to get the same relative pension value that depositors receive after 12 years. The coastal party supports the proposal of the Progress Party and will subsidly support the proposal of the Centre Party and recommends that the Stortinget gather on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e1980	Let me start by reminding you that the government has proposed an increase of the basic amount of 5.2 pst. At the same time, the Government of the revised national budget expects a price increase of 1.4 pst. Such a development will provide a very significant real growth in social security pensions this year. When the representative Alvheim says that this proposal does not mean that the pensioners get a share in what he refers to as the ‘wage party’ this year, it is positively wrong. It's about a massive real increase in the basic amount of the government's proposal. According to the guidelines of the Storting, the objective of the regulation of the basic amount is to provide pensioners with a retirement pension with income development in line with expected developments for active workers and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the other income policy framework. Expected developments in the income of economically active persons shall be determined in accordance with the guidelines on the basis of the statement of revenue for the general government and the LO/NHO balance sheet. There will always be relatively high uncertainties related to the current year's wage growth figures, and it is difficult to provide a reliable estimate of wage developments. The revised national budget is based on an average annual wage growth of about 5 pst. The strengthening of the Norwegian krona as well as the generally strong growth of wages contributes to a deterioration in the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. This in itself will help to dampen the rate of pay this year. In this respect, I would also like to stress that in its quarterly report Economic analysis 3/2002, which was presented last week, the statistical central agency also estimates the current year's salary growth to be 5 pst. On the basis of this, I think it is quite clear that the government's proposed regulation of the basic amount of 5.2 pst. complies with the Storting decision that the basic amount should be regulated at least in line with the wage and price developments of the rest of society. During the discussions, organisations promoted a number of requirements linked to both the regulation of the basic amount and proposals for the plan of retirement. With regard to the latter, I would just like to make a brief reference to the fact that the Pension Commission, which is due to put forward its position in October 2003, will address questions related to this. It would be unfortunate if any bonds of the Storting could now help to create ambiguities in relation to the work of the Pension Commission. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Social Committee did not follow up the two proposals on the escalation plan from the Progress Party and the Centre respectively. I have noticed that the majority of the Social Committee asks the Government to present a case on the social security guidelines. The case shall be brought before the Grand Duchy in order to enable it to adopt any new guidelines prior to the establishment of the social security scheme in 2003. Of course, the government will follow up. In the setting, the majority of the Storting from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre's comments go quite far in providing guidance for the quantification of different components of the G-regulation. Some of these leaders, in my opinion, may go too far in the direction of an indexing of G or an automatic adjustment of the basic amount based on wage statistics. An indexation of such a large budget line provides significant financial policy commitments against which there may be grounds for warning. In addition, an approach to the G-regulation, which almost makes this an account, will raise questions as to whether the institution itself has any function with the pensioners’ organisations. I think it is important, as long as we have a discussion institute, that we take the discussion institute seriously. To be a discussion institute, there shall be a significant element of judgement and assessment on the part of both parties. If you put the leads that go as far as the majority seems to suggest, that means you have to look at the Institute itself as well. However, these are issues that the Government will come back to the Storting with in assessing any new guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount. Let me finally add a little more: the government went into the discussions with the pensioners' organizations with a real desire to try to find a negotiated solution. This year we had to note, unfortunately, that the willingness to negotiate from the other party did not seem to be particularly large, which may have been related to the other party thinking that an appeal directly to the Stortinge was better than the use of the discussion institute. I hope that we can all be involved, as long as we have this institute, in making that institute a central tool to try to come up with a solution. Finally, I would like once again to express my satisfaction that the majority of the Social Committee is ending up with the Government's proposals for basic regulation, and at the same time is in favour of the necessary changes in appropriations resulting from this regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2002	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2005	First, let me express great satisfaction with the way in which the Council of State meets the proposal by returning to the Stortinget with its own case on the guidelines. I think that was a positive and active attitude on the part of the Council of State. It is quite obvious that the Council of State touches on important elements in this matter when considering discussions of the whole discussion institute versus an indexation of the development of G. We will have ample opportunity to come back to a thorough discussion of this. But I think it's right for me now to challenge the Council of States that, in this case too, one has to discuss and go into a thorough analysis of how to define a lag on G, and what kind of basis one should have to consider wage developments in that year's settlement. Then the Storting can decide whether you want to follow a slave definition, or whether you want to keep a slingshot, a conversational monsoon, on in the system. But we can't, like, continue to live with the fact that different parties in the Storting and the Government have very different perceptions of how to understand the different concepts. Therefore, it must be an objective in the matter at least to contribute to a common understanding of the concept. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that he will also be concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2014	I can only express my full agreement with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on that question. What I tried to find out is that in this regard, we are forced enough to discuss and make a choice between an approach using a discussion institute that must involve a significant element of judgement, and a solution that involves approaching an indexation solution. We can't live with both. Having said that, no matter what solution is chosen, I think there is a need for a clearer clarification of the Storting guidelines. Today we have two sets of leaders from Stortinget. We decided last year to regulate at least in line with wage and price developments, a decision and guidelines that do not provide any special guidance at all. That condition could actually have been met this year by an upgrading of G by any percentage over 1.4 pst. The second lead is that of 1999 which says that pensioners should have income developments at least in line with employees in society. It is more precise, but it is also unclear as to the time period and the basis for this. Nevertheless, there is a need for clarification of the guidelines, but it must therefore be seen in the context of the issue of discussions versus direct treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2021	It's pretty amazing that the government council from this pulpit is saying that the pensioners really got a pay party from the big ones, because the price increase has been only 1.4 pst. And then you offer 5.2 pst. What is the starting point, Your Honor, of these percentages? Don't you have to look at that too? Then it is not correct, as stated by the Council of State, that the guidelines for this year's social security settlement should be that compensation be granted 'in line with'. It's out this year. It is the majority decision of the Grand Duchy from the budgetary procedure last year that should be the starting point for this adjustment. We know that there have been good settlements for both KS and NATO and the municipality of Oslo that may be above 6 pst. Equally, the Government maintains that wage developments will be around 5 pst., and they have that in their revised national budget. Does the Council of State really believe this itself? It might be nice to get an answer to whether wage developments so far are only 5 pst. Is this calculation intended to exclude those who have been well settled, as has been done in the proposition with regard to teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2030	Of course, I believe in the estimate of wage developments this year presented by the Government in the revised national budget. I am strengthened in faith by the fact that last week, at the latest last week, the Central Statistical Office allocated wages to 5 pst. Of course, we can always find examples of settlement that give more than the average, but we also have examples of settlement that are clearly going to give less than this number. This trend now appears, and especially in view of the strong dollar price and the problems faced by competitive business, there is every reason to believe that wage developments will be much lower than some of the settlements we have had at the end of the wage settlement can indicate. So the question of payroll party. I believe that when this settlement will result in G being adjusted up by real 3.8 pst., no one should be able to claim that the pensioners have not also been given part in the real wage increase that takes place in general in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2037	I just want to bring up the proposal that SV has made in the setting first, and it is done. Otherwise, I must say that I am happy that the Council of State does not owe me money. If he had, I see that if there were two bills it was about, and he made up for one, he would argue in the next moment that he also made up for the other. That's the way the government here argues. You compensate for last year's settlement, and when you look forward and assume that you will get a pay and price increase of a certain amount, you take what you have compensated for in the calculation basis. In order to get any confirmation or confirmation that this is what the Council of State thinks, I could think of it as being very precise in that you expect a wage and price increase starting at 5 pst. Let's say that the salary and price increase for the coming year is 5.2 pst., exactly 5.2 pst. Will the Council of State then claim that it has completely compensated for the increase in wages and prices because it is just 5.2 pst? which is part of the provision of pensioners, or will the Council of State take over the fact that they have also compensated for a settlement in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2044	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2047	The state has a long and established tradition of not wanting to decompose, either in social security discussions or in the state settlement, the figure obtained, through negotiations or as a result of a breach, in the current year’s increase in compensation for late retirement from previous years. This is an implemented principle in all state negotiations. You don't want to make math out of something that should be an assessment. It has been repeatedly stated in the debate that the basis for last year’s increase was an estimate of wage developments of 4 pst. I would like to make it clear that the negotiation result from last year says that the parties agree that the organisations have started an expected salary development of 4 pst. But the state had not necessarily taken that into account. It is the case that there should be a discretionary assessment throughout the deliberation institute and the negotiating institute. Until the Grand Government, possibly as a result of the discussion of guidelines coming next year, requires the Government to decompose its offers in compensation for the aftermath and increase of the current year, respectively, the Government will stick to what is established practice, namely that the Government does not split its offer in the form of an calculation where the sum is a + b + c.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2054	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2059	It's used harsh words against me and the Workers' Party that we are responsible for a ‘disgusting’ towards the pensioners by voting in favour of the Government's proposal for a social security settlement. This betrayal is linked to the fact that, especially according to Alvheim, we do not follow up the decision we voted for before Christmas. But what's the point, is that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, when we formulated that proposal and got it adopted in the main hall before Christmas, did a very bad political craft. For what is that decision? Well, we have to follow up the general wage and price growth. What does that mean? Is that the average of an expected salary increase of 5 pst. and a price increase of 1.4 pst. We mean? If the wage growth is higher than the price growth, are we going to follow the wage growth? If the price increase is higher than the wage increase, are we going to follow the price increase? There is a target formulation without meaning and content as it is formulated. I don't have any problems with being so clear that the decision we formulated doesn't give any clear guidance to the Government. The representative of Ballo has said throughout the day that G must be regulated in line with the wage and price increases. What does that mean? Does he mean, then, the average wage and price growth? In that case, the government could have made a social security settlement of approx. 3 pst. and went to Stortinget and said, "We have followed up an average of the wage and price increases. There is no reason to come to this room and say that the government has not followed up the decision of the Storting, because the decision of the Storting is unclear to the degrees – to the degrees unclear. That's why we have to go the way to get the guidelines for new treatment, so that the size can become clear. Personally, I am quite clear that what we should focus on is wage development. Other countries have taken a different stance and focus solely on price developments. That debate is now the basis for us to take when we get the guidelines. We had the opportunity before Christmas, but the majority of the Biggest did not take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2068	The government proposes to increase the basic amount of the population’s money by NOK 2810 per year. 1 May 2002, from 51 360 kroner to 54 170 kroner. This results in growth in the basic amount of 5.2 pst from 2001 to 2002 and additional expenditure of 4.887 million. kr, including the regulation of state pensions per year. 1 May 2002. The right and government parties are satisfied with the Government's proposal and point to the fact that the basic amount is regulated at least in line with the wage and price developments of the rest of society and in line with the previous decision and assumption of the Storting. The Government Parties and the majority of the Committee point out that it is the Stortingen that provides the guidelines for social security settlement and that it is the Government that is responsible for conducting discussions with the organisations on the basis of given guidelines. In the light of the settlement of the previous year, the majority consider that there is a basis for reviewing and reviewing the guidelines and therefore asks the Government to file a case on the social security policy before the social security settlement in 2003. The government parties further point out that the Pension Commission is currently examining the future of the population and is due to give its position on 1 October 2003. The co-operation management is therefore unlucky if any commitments are now made by the Storting to help create ambiguities in relation to the further work of the Pension Commission. Government parties look forward to clarification of the main objectives, guidelines and principles of an overall pension system in the current work of the Pension Commission. It is during this review that the debate on all aspects of our pension system should come, in close cooperation with individual party organisations, in order to find good solutions for the future. The government's arrangements will be given a majority with the support of the Workers' Party, following the tradition of previous years, that the Government will have a majority for either the negotiated agreement or what has been the last offer in the negotiations with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2088	If that is allowed, I will advise Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the representative, that he does not go further to the pulpit and try to explain himself away from the decision that was made and that they have failed completely. Now that's another explanation, now the proposal is not good enough. That's the last one. What's next if he's going to have more three minutes? The progress party is going for 6.8 pst., which is the organisation's requirement, and we're taking it for the whole year. That's why we get an additional amount of NOK 4030 versus NOK 2810, which is what is probably going to be decided tonight. For the Progress Party, the situation of pensioners is one of our most important values. We're not going to forget the pensioners, and I think the Government and especially the Prime Minister should notice this important value issue for the Progress Party in view of the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2097	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2100	I have gradually understood that it may be unpleasant for Alvheim to be reminded that he is not infallible. Let me ask the following questions to Alvheim: Can Alvheim give me the number – the number – of wage and price increases in 2000 and 2001? If the proposal adopted by the Stortinget is so clear, what was the figure for wage and price growth in 2000 and 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2107	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox [[See page 353]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2123	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3540]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2140	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2151	Norway's fine-branched airport network has a very central place in our transportation system. The routes compensate for the distance constraints and mitigate the impact of difficult topographical conditions. The aviation system thus contributes to the maintenance of the housing pattern and to the development of activities outside the large housing concentrations. This was why the Right was the driver for the expansion of regional airports, and we take our fatherhood, or dare I say fatherhood, seriously. The Transport Committee believes that our airport structure should cut travel time between different parts of a long country. Regional airports are and will continue to be an active element of food and district policy. Regional aerodromes shall link districts to regional centres and long-distance routes. Overall, the Swedish Aviation Agency is responsible for 44 airports plus Værøy, which is a helicopter station. In principle, these have been self-financing through a cross-subsidisation system. The exemption has been the tendering route at regional airports. The Committee's air traffic controllers have been on tour to the aerodrome areas concerned and have listened to views from both sides. The Committee is divided into the assessment of the number of calls for tender on the regional aerodrome network. The majority will justify its setting later. Since regional airports were put into service, the road system and alternative modes of transport have improved significantly without any reduction in airport provision. The economic foundation of aviation is weakened. We have seen a decline in traffic in the last year, while cost developments in the last ten years are worrying. In the 1990s there has been a passenger increase of about 25 p.p., while transfers to regional airports and routes have increased by about 45 p.p. in fixed crowns. The operating economic deficit of regional airports for 2002 amounts to approximately EUR 15 million. 660 million. kr. The minimum investment standard over the next ten years is calculated at NOK 1.5 billion on this web, limited upgrade is estimated at NOK 2.6 billion. These two elements, good transport options and a worrying economic development encourage political action. Otherwise, the air services offer will be weakened. The longer we hesitate to take the necessary steps to manage offers and finances, the worse the consequences for aviation Norway. The Notified Grip Government proposes in St.prp. No 61 for 2001–02, a socio-economic saving in net present value of 670 million. kr. The budgetary impact is a saving of 46 million. SEK annually, 46 million. kr which will be a lovable grant for the upgrading of other aerodromes. By withdrawing Vardø, Narvik and Fernes from the tender route offer, alternative airports will be able to collect benefits such as more frequent departures, cheaper tickets and better passenger services. At the same time, it will curb the ever-depleting of existing airports. Therefore, the Government considers that the total effect in the regions concerned will be positive. Neighboring airports will be better equipped to meet future challenges. It is elementary animal leather that you get more milk from normal feeding 15 cows than from starving 20. Then I remind you that it takes an hour on normal driving to the nearest airport from both Narvik and Vardø, and the fact that the traffic on the Feners is so small that each ticket must be subsidized by up to NOK 2000. These are the three insurmountable problem massifs in which our fearsome colleagues in the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Progressive Party do not dare enter. In St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, the Stoltenberg Government announced a full review of the regional network, with any changes in the country’s involvement in a new tendering period from 2003. It's done by this government. The Stoltenberg government would involve technical, operational and safety assessments. It has also been carried out by the Bondevik Government, through the Aviation Administration’s report of October 2001. It was the Stoltenberg government that listed ten decisive criteria for the continued operation of routes. The first was proximity to alternative airport. My answer is that it takes an hour to travel from both Narvik and Vardø to the alternative. The second Stoltenberg criterion was alternative transport. In this case, there is a car and a bus. The third Stoltenberg criterion was the carrier capability of the Aviation Agency to maintain business unprofitable activities. My answer is: much worse today than it was then. The fifth Stoltenberg criterion was the importance of airports for housing and value creation. My answer is that an airport with good deals and several departures is more important than an hour less travel. The sixth Stoltenberg criterion was the state's cost of air operations. My answer is that it's more expensive than ever, increased by 45 pst. in fixed crowns during the last 10 years. The seventh Stoltenberg criterion was measures aimed at achieving good and necessary competition and thus at reducing the need for subsidisation. My answer is: the bigger the traffic, the more interesting it is for companies to submit tenders. The truth is that most of the criteria that the Stoltenberg government has listed in its time are like tailor-made premises for the three measures that the Bondevik government wants. Then it is almost embarrassing that the Workers' Party in the majority of the comments gives the rapporteur in any airport municipality almost veto in relation to the changes in the structure of the Stoltenberg government so clearly opened up. The working party is on collision courses with itself. Government parties have wanted to mitigate the disadvantages of the three communities by providing roadside improvements between Narvik and Evenes for 30 million. DKK, and south of Payernes for 40 million. kr. In addition, enhanced winter maintenance on the road between Vardø and Vadsø as well as accelerated start-up of construction work at Kirkene Airport. These are positive actions which have in no way been able to frighten the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party out of the shadow of the refusal of action. The opposition has had a good time. Already in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, the Stoltenberg Government announced a review of the regional airport network, which was followed up by the Bondevik Government through the Aviation Administration’s report last October. The Transport Committee was briefed on the analysis of a meeting with the Aviation Agency shortly thereafter. Spending even more time on necessary grips will further reinforce aviation problems. It is not time we need more, but determination and courage to protect a now robust network. We are informed that airports will be covered by new safety requirements. It is logical that the closure of tendering routes will be postponed until the Grand Duchy knows what the new safety requirements are all about. This argument is only valid if we are uncertain about the location of neighbouring aerodromes in relation to aviation safety. Neither Evenes, Vadsø or Kirkenes have problems meeting such future demands. Therefore, the routes in Vardø, Narvik and Fenernes can be taken out of the tenders without risking large gaps in the network later. There is a debate about the Workers' Party, about the new Workers' Party. The example of regional airports goes well into the range of issues in which the Workers' Party finds more and more intimate forms of association with the SV and the Advance Party, increasingly intimate in all parts other than this one: Invasion – this difficult phenomenon to which politicians have such a hormonal relationship. In eccentric selection, the Labour Party finds a majority for expenditure increases for a number of perceived popular purposes. The hormones have run smoothly this spring: Under full kindergarten coverage, the popular comrades shall introduce the maximum price in children's playgrounds without common coverage. Price: NOK 1.5 billion. The working party adds extra to the municipalities. Price: DKK 1.5 billion. The working party introduces funds to ensure increased municipal pensions. Price: DKK 6 billion.The working party wants zero prowess by artificial fertilization. Price: DKK 104 million.The working party wants no specialty in the case of free legal aid. Price: between 70 and 100 million. kr.The working party wants a depreciation rate on machines from 15-20 pst. Price: DKK 1.6 billion.The working party reduces taxes and charges, according to the Evening Post on 16 June. Price: 9 billion DKK over three years.The working party increases the house banking framework by 2 billion DKK and the loan framework for SND by 0.5 billion DKK.The working party wants government structural funds of between 20 and 50 billion DKK. These examples make it easy to understand that socio-economic savings in net present value of 670 million. kr for the three airports does not impress the Workers' Party sinfully. The Stoltenberg Government underlined in that big business report that the volume of business-unprofitable activities had to be adapted to the budget of the Swedish Aviation Agency. If the Workers' Party is to listen to this advice from its own government, they must either follow the Bondevik government or deplete the flight offer. Other solutions do not exist. With the springy billion-drop Workers' Party has stood as an exponent for the past few months, I know a party in a deep identity crisis, where management has no control over popular play. Bad opinion polls have caused fear, and fear is often an unreliable adviser. I hope I am wrong when, at the end of the landfill session, I find a political paradigm shift in which the Workers' Party jumps on more and more of the outside parties' unprofessional populist management of taxpayers' money – without common interference. That is the party that, after all, has had long-term and completeness in its role as a government party and government option. It is not without reason that Thorbjørn Jagland warns his own big group against becoming the third member of the SV-FrP pop group. It is, as Igland says, easiest of all to get a majority for expenditure increases. But is it realistic to agree with these parties on an entire state budget, or a whole policy? I don't think so, says Jagland. The undersigned knows that the doubt is shared by several inside and outside the Working Party. It is extremely serious if the Workers' Party should lose sight of its historic function as a serious government option. Also in the treatment of this St.prp. No 61 I know a working party that refuses to make unpopular decisions. Long-termity requires policy to take hold of developments and not to wait for developments to repress policy. I'll bring this up with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2238	Hans R. Kjästad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2241	I thought we were going to discuss the regional airport structure, and not use the time for a historical description of the Workers' Party. We'll get back to that case. It's a good night. We have received a majority in favour of taking the airports in Vardø, Narvik and Fenernes out of the tendering procedure from 1 April 2003. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased to have the majority together with SV, the Progress Party and the Center Party on this matter, a majority that, unlike the government parties, does not deal with Norwegian aviation policy superficially, or in good Nordic: in cabins and torments. The majority have concluded that Norwegian aviation is important. Both the regional aerodrome network and the base aerodromes are important and a natural part of the transport infrastructure, particularly for districts. The working party believes that the issue of the aeroplane structure should be addressed in its full scope in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan, and that is not new either. The outlook shall then be the opportunities and development potential associated with a good aerodrome and travel offer, while the Government shall only base its view on relatively limited assessments of transport costs. The working party considers that assessments of including other aerodromes and possibly new ones instead of or in addition to the existing aerodromes should be included in such a context, i.e. in the national transport plan. The working party, together with the majority, assumes that the issue of the importance of air transport for districts is carefully assessed. For parts of the West and North Norway, the plane is a collective form of transport both internally in the parts of the country and in the counties, and in relation to the country otherwise. Distances, difficult geographical and weather conditions and lack of alternative modes of transport make the aeroplane an important mode of transport. It concerns both the regional network and the main route network. Unsatisfactory travel offers and high prices lead to problems and costs both for industry, for individuals and for the public. The majority assume that the roll-out of the national transport plan in this case will make an in-depth assessment of the level of prices and travel patterns in the national parts/states and an assessment of the interaction between regular routes and regional routes. A review of the transition pricing of travellers who need to benefit from more companies is also very important. In addition, the Minister of Transport must carefully review the system of public purchases of services and, perhaps most importantly, the level of air transport prices. There has to be a new code for safety at airports, and we assume that this will also be dealt with in the same review. The size shall treat all matters properly. We as representatives can work around the clock, but as in this case, we cannot get matters so late that the Stortinget cannot handle it properly – not for our own sake, but for everyone who is directly affected by the decisions we make in this Chamber. The Minister of Transport must take this seriously. Governments have met in several cases with the same criticism. I hope that the Minister of Transport is now taking the Storting's treatment seriously. Briefly summarised: 1st@item: inlistbox The majority opposes the exclusion of the airports Fenres, Narvik and Vardø from the system of tendering routes from 1 April 2003.2. The major request is that a thorough information and assessment of the situation of the entire aviation area in Norway be included in the roll-out of the national transport plan, that individual aerodromes be assessed on the basis of overall societal considerations, and that particular consideration be given to the role of aviation in the districts, and in particular to housing and business. If the Government chooses to return to Stortinget with proposals for structural changes to the aeroplane structure, it is a prerequisite that remedial measures are in place before the possible closure of an aerodrome, if nothing else is not accepted by municipalities/areas subject to closure, and that the Government has close cooperation with the parties involved in order to ensure good solutions so that everyone can live with them. The Labour Party believes that it is unacceptable to weaken the provision of transport for the population and industry in the districts, and believes that this matter is being incorporated into the range of anti-diversity measures taken by this Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2276	When one listens to the description of poverty by the case rapporteur, the representative of Kjästad, he would think that this country was bankrupt, heading straight down into the ditch – and without money. The truth is, we have nearly $600 billion on the book. In fact, this country can afford to have a good offer both on the road and in the air. We can afford to give the citizens of this country a good transport offer. I record that the Right is more interested in investing in shower factories and cigarette factories abroad than in providing the public with a good transport service. That is the right priority, it is not the Progress Party. The use of aeroplanes in Norway is part of public transport, even if the collective notification does not refer to either the main route network or the regional network. The Norwegian population is at the top of the world in terms of the number of flights per year. the population. This is due to Norway’s topography and the spread of the population over long distances. In those parts of Norway where distances are large, you are totally dependent on aircraft, and here the regional airports play an important role. Let me therefore say that regional air services are essential for large parts of District Norway, not only for business to exist and develop, but it is also very important for the population to be able to live elsewhere in District Norway. But that doesn't mean you have to close your eyes because there's a development of the road network. When tunnels are built, bridges and roads are being built and refurbished, so that the traffic pattern changes, of course, this can lead to aerodromes being laid down. Settlement based on such facts will be included in the Advance Party. Therefore, aerodrome closures should preferably be made following an overall assessment of the treatment of the national transport plan. The Government’s proposal to shut down airports in Narvik, Vardø and Fenernes does not justify such total assessments. In fact, on some sections of the road there is a great risk of raspling to the nearest airport. This is particularly true for the route between Narvik and Evenes, but also for some sections between Fenernes and Gardermoen. I have to say that it is somewhat amazing that the government chooses to propose closures before any of these roads are repaired, which could put life and health at risk to people who have to drive to the nearest airport. As most people know, the Progress Party has been negotiating with the government parties about the possible closure of the three airports. The background for the Progress Party to enter into such negotiations was that we should do an approximate national transport plan treatment for these specific areas, i.e. see these areas in a whole where remedial action was taken, such as road development, racial protection or other necessary measures. Unfortunately, this did not lead to this. It is fairly clear from the comments made by the government parties that the means they intend to impose as remedial measures, both on the road between Narvik and Evenes and on the road between Fenernes and Gardermoen, with respect to reporting is small money, and would not have helped the situation at all. Therefore, the Progress Party has concluded that when it was not possible to arrive at a reasonable way to take these areas out in order to make an overall assessment, it would be irresponsible, in our view, to wait for the treatment of the national transport plan before carrying out assessments of the possible closure of aerodromes. With regard to the individual airports proposed by the Government, I will start with Narvik Airport. Nearest airport is Evenes Airport. The road between Narvik and Evenes is in part very bad constitution, with great accident load. So in addition to this, the road is very rascal. Rehabilitation of the rascal area is planned, but it will not take place until 2005, i.e. three years from today. For the improvement of E6 between Evenes and Bjerkvik, this is not part of the national transport plan. It goes without saying that it would be directly irresponsible to shut down this airport before making these repairs. In the case of Ferener airport, Leirin, there are many areas with some very bad roads between Feners and Gardermoen. Big parts of Rv 33 between Fenrens and Minnesund are bad. I only mention the Tonsåsen, Vardalsåsen and Skreiaberget. For some areas, there are improvements in 2005 but far from all areas. It is also worth noting that the flight route between the Fernes and Gardermoen has been mildly hit by a lot of turbulence. There have been several airlines in recent years, which has led to major irregularities in the route offer. This, of course, has led to a drop in passenger numbers. After the acquisition of Arctic Air, the number of passengers has risen sharply, following aggressive marketing and good offers. It would therefore be wrong to remove this offer before you see if there is life created for such an offer. In the case of Vardø, it is relatively short distance, but it is worth noting that large parts of the year are low visibility on the road due to snowstorms and a lot of wind. As a result, driving between Vardø and Vadsø can take up to five hours, and it is particularly serious in the case of ambulances. As a whole, it would therefore be irresponsible to shut down these aerodromes without any remedial measures of a certain size being carried out. That is not the case with the proposal of the Government, nor have such proposals come forward during negotiations with the Government. Therefore, the Progress Party is opposed to the Government's proposal to shut down the three Narvik, Feners and Vardø airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2304	The proposal to shut down Narvik, Vardø and Fenernes airports should initially not have been dealt with as a matter in the Stortinget today. The main premise for deciding whether to set down any aerodromes at all is the new safety requirements and they are not available. The regulations are being consulted and are expected to be ready for next year. We do not know how the regulations will be finally designed, nor the assessment by the Swedish Aviation Agency of how to implement the new requirements at each aerodrome. In addition, the short-range network should not be treated separately from other infrastructure. The aeroplane structure must be seen in the context of road, boat, railway, etc. Therefore, the natural context is to discuss the short-haul network in the context of the revision of the National Transport Plan in spring 2004. It is also the conclusion of the Committee on Transport. The government chose to ignore these obvious circumstances and nevertheless send the matter to Stortinget. The result will be then. The matter comes back to the Government with clear leads to see the airport structure in an overall district policy context, extending further and wider than the spin-off on which the Government builds its figures on socio-economic profitability. Indeed, there is not a very significant factor, the loss of jobs by local communities and the future loss of potential new jobs. It is, of course, difficult to quantify, but it is nevertheless a very important aspect of the issue in assessing the overall socio-economic impact. When the short-range network is to be re-treated, the Government must give these factors great weight in the overall assessment. I'm not going to spend a lot of time at the individual airport. But briefly, I have noticed that the Government has negotiated with the Progress Party on compensatory measures in addition to what the Government has proposed in the case. The propulsion party has required money to upgrade the roads to the nearest aerodrome. If there are minority comments offered by the Government, the government parties may appear to have kept the Progress Party for 14 days. It is proposed that 30 million be allocated between 2003 and 2005. kr for actions on the road between Narvik and Evenes, of which 20 million. kr to next year. What is the plan that the road manager in Northern Ireland has been working on, and that has been the premise in relation to the national transport plan, is that a tunnel should be built to 100 million. kr past the rasable area of Leirvik, beginning next year. This means that the offer to the Progress Party is worse than that in existing road upgrading plans. What Narvik Municipality and Nordland County Municipality have said, and which is also mentioned in the Transport Plan, is that when the road between Narvik and Evenes is made shorter with bridge over the Rombaksfjord, or alternatively upgraded with a long tunnel, the airport can be laid down. In any case, what local and regional authorities consider to be acceptable compensatory measures for the Narvik area will cost approximately. 700 million. kr. And when we're in Narvik, the case rapporteur has commented a number of times that 80 pst. of those travelling by plane from Narvik, traveling from Evenes. The actual ratio is that the airport at Narvik has its main function in the communication between Narvik and Bodø. Bodø is the county capital of Northern Ireland and is located 30 miles from Narvik, and the need for communication between these two cities is great. It travels more than 30,000 a year by air between Bodø and Narvik. We're talking about the business use of the airport, and we're talking about patients traveling to hospitals. For flights out of Northland, on the other hand, to Oslo, people from the Narvik region use the airport of Evenes. Narvik is the flight path aerodrome, Evenes is the main route aerodrome. For Vardø, no specific compensatory measures have been proposed in addition to those proposed by the Government. It is probably because you have realized that there are weather conditions that are the problem in Vardø, and neither government nor magnificence can do anything about it. There is so little visibility on the road in long periods due to strong wind that it takes a very long time to drive between Vardø and Vadsø, it has been mentioned here for up to several hours. Vardø got its airport as compensation when the hospital was laid down. The need is the same today. The situation of Vardø is currently in serious loss of jobs – today a corner stone company, Aarsetther, went bankrupt, with the loss of 190 jobs – suggests that the municipality must maintain the airport. It becomes very important when Vardø is fighting for new jobs in the coming years. I'm not going to say much about the airport at the Feners. It was built in its time for tourism, charter traffic. They're natural to see the future of that aerodrome in that perspective. There is reason to criticise the procedure in this case. The Minister of Transport made a clear commitment to my questions in the debate on the Transport Budget that the municipalities and county councils concerned should be heard before the airport trip was presented to Stortinget. It hasn't happened. The county rapporteur in Finnmark has said quite clearly that they had expected a draft consultation, but nothing came. The same is true of Northernland. It is highly critical that such serious questions for local communities are not sent to the hearing until such a case is dealt with by the Stortinget. It must happen next time this matter comes back. It is a matter that has been discovered in this case and that needs to be commented on. That's the impression I have of a total lack of coordination of state policies and activities. Since the Government gave its position on the aerodromes, special attention has been given to the situation in Vardø and Narvik. What emerges as a consequence of the conversion of state activities, Posten, Telenor, NSB, Vegvesenet etc. is that these municipalities have been particularly hard hit. Vardø has lost between 400 and 500 public jobs in the last 10–15 years. We're talking about a municipality with a few thousand inhabitants. Narvik has lost 600 to 700 government jobs in the last 8 to 10 years. Common to both municipalities is that they work hard to create new jobs. Narvik, as a conversion municipality, has the power to establish 300-400 new ones in the private sector. Aerodromes are a very important part of the infrastructure for both municipalities when inviting new businesses to establish themselves. I have to ask if the Minister for Transport knows these conditions. The Minister of Transport knows that, for example, the municipality of Narvik has received several million kroner in conversion aid, and that shutting down the airport could mean that much of the work done can be lost. I don't think so, and I have a strong impression that one department doesn't know what the other is doing. There is no overview of the impact of State activities. Minister of State Erna Solberg has also partly recognised the newspaper Future that the state does not have an overview. That overview I expect the Minister of Transport to have when she next comes to Stortinget with the airfield. On a number of occasions, case rapporteur Kjästad has said that when the majority opposes the closure of these airports, it will almost mean that we will have a lower flight offer in Norway in the future. We lubricate the money in addition to many airports instead of betting on a better offer for fewer. The point is that the population of the Vardø and Narvik regions does not get a better offer, but a worse offer if airports are laid down. It is these regions that are on the agenda. For the population and business in the Narvik region, the offer is much worse because there are no bids for flights between Bodø and Evenes, which should be the option. But we can get a worse flight offer if Kjestad, Right and Government don't intend to give more money to the Aviation Agency in the future. Then many airports have to be laid down to address the investment needs, if that is the option. I noticed that the majority cut 30 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal for an increase of 100 million. kr to the Swedish Aviation Agency in the revised national budget. I understand that the Aviation Agency will be anxious about the future when such signals arrive. However, the SV will not at all be able to open up the closure of short-haul aerodromes to resolve the financial problems of the Aviation Agency. Aviation is that part of the transport sector which over the years has received the least money from the State Treasury, and with the importance it has for communication in that country, not least in the districts, there should be broad political agreement that more money should be allocated in the years to come. The current network does not necessarily have to look like this in the future. Better combinations and shortening distances between aerodromes may make it appropriate to look at the structure. But today is not the right thing to do. The government has to deal with these kinds of questions in a much more thorough and better way than the case has been this time. I am pleased with the majority that was achieved in the matter. I'm happy on Vardø's behalf, who won't have the airport shut down on top of the problems they're having today. I am happy on Narvik's behalf, which today actually has the main marking of the city's 100th anniversary. They let go of the airport as a gift from the state. And I appreciate the political leadership that has been laid down. The focus shall be on the importance of the short-range network for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2349	We have as many airports in the Nordic countries as there are in Sweden combined, and this really puts our airport offer in a clear relief. From the time when regional airports were established until today, in many aerodrome areas, there has been a development of road systems and alternative means of transport, without resulting in adjustments in the air route offer. Most of this regional aviation offer was established in the 1970s and 1980s to provide parts of District Norway with a rapid and effective link with the outside world, thus reducing distance constraints. The Christian People's Party sees the security of an offer with fast travel opportunities. It is of great importance to the population and regional economic development. Since the establishment of the main structure, there has been a significant improvement in the other transport services. New bridges, roads and tunnels have reduced travel time to other airports and other destinations. The development of bus and boat transport has also helped to bring regions closer together. As a result, there has been an overlap between coverage areas of several airports in several locations. The Government of Stoltenberg announced in the National Transport Plan 2002-2011 a review of the regional airport network before the next bidding round, starting on 1 April 2003, to assess whether changes were to be made to the airport structure. This review is now available. The Aviation Agency estimates the investment need at regional airports to be at least DKK 1,5 billion over the next decade. As a result of the decline in air traffic, the Aviation Agency also has a very demanding economy, and this contributes to a significant slowdown in the upgrading and expansion of its regional airports. An increase in air traffic is important to improve the Aviation Administration’s economy and the ability to upgrade and expand regional airports. We have an obligation to make the offer in terms of airports and air routes, more appropriate and effective on a overall better financial basis. It will again benefit aviation and travellers through an overall better offer. The aim is therefore to ensure robust labour market regions with increased well-being and economic development for users and businesses. Without changes to the offer, State grants to the regional aerodrome network will have to be significantly increased over time or the quality and scope of the route offer will have to be reduced. The investigations carried out by the Swedish Aviation Agency have shown that the operation of several regional airports with tendering routes is not socially viable. It is therefore appropriate for new tenders to concentrate the route route in the Harstad/Narvik area and Vardø/Vadsø area. Furthermore, the route is proposed at the airport of Fenerne due to low traffic and satisfactory alternative modes of transport. In addition, it is proposed that the Swedish Aviation Agency continue the investigation of the joint aerodromes in northern Greece and new airport for Honningsvåg and surrounding districts. The Christian People's Party regrets that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are now postponing the necessary change for aviation that helps to improve the ability of the Swedish Aviation Agency to upgrade and expand regional airports. In the longer term, I'm afraid that these parties have only made things worse. They make it more difficult to maintain the regional aviation offer. By not taking responsibility now they push the problems ahead. The Government of Bondevik has followed the initiative of the government of Stoltenberg to assess the structure of the regional aviation offer. The adjustments contribute to the strengthening of the aviation industry’s strenuous economy. The conversion will result in net annual savings of 46 million. kr for the country and net socio-economic savings of up to 670 million. kr. The continuation of existing structures on the regional network could result in much greater structural changes at a later stage. The Christian People's Party has wanted to take the bad economy of the Aviation Agency seriously. So we've decided to shut down the least socio-economically profitable airports. This ensures many of the other major aerodromes. Nevertheless, we have also chosen to strengthen the situation in the areas around Vardø, Narvik and Vadsø with various remedial measures. The Christian People's Party supports minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2375	It's a word that says, "Do you have a bad case, raise your voice, or talk about something else?" The case spokesperson did both, and it told me a little about how bad the case of the minority has in this debate. Last Thursday, the Stortinget debated the collective announcement. Today, we are debating the supply of the short-haul rail network. Air transport was not included in the collective communication, although this is a very important part of collective provision for large parts of the country. In fact, for parts of District Norway, the provision of flights is the only real collective supply over long distances. The short-haul network is crucial to reduce the country’s distance constraints. In this case, it is not about extra bets, as it was when it was about collective messaging a week ago. Now it is about reducing supply to save costs. Is this probably an example of the Bondevik II government's district policy? The case spokesperson made a point that aviation expenditure has increased. But the case-speaker did not say anything about it, is that aviation has to a large extent been self-financing. Quite rightly, a number of services have been purchased on the short-range network, but otherwise the users themselves have paid the costs. With the decline in aviation, the revenues of the Aviation Agency have fallen. It limits the ability of the Swedish Aviation Agency to conduct investments. Consequently, it is important and necessary that the air traffic services’ revenues were increased by 100 million. kr in the revised national budget. This increase has also been pointed out by the government party in its comments. But what these parties are not telling us is that in the budget agreement with the Progress Party, they have reduced this increase by 30 million. kr. It is not likely that the government party will be alarmed when, both in comments, in the media and in the debate here, there is a great deal of concern about the aviation industry's economy, while at the same time reducing the lines to the Swedish Aviation Agency. I had also hoped that the government party would have been willing to put at least some emphasis on the map network's value for the districts, and not just look at this as a matter where it is possible to save money. The government filed an action on the supply of the regional airport network in May. We have all known that this case has a doctor in the Ministry of Transport from in the fall. It is, therefore, unfortunate that a matter which has so much to say for so many is brought forward at the same time as many other matters, and at a time when the committee is too short to do thorough work. I noticed that the case spokesman said that when one knew that the case would come, one could clearly start working with her, but that is not the way one works in Stortinget. One waits for one to see what is in the proposal, before starting the job. Foresearch has produced a report for the Swedish Aviation Administration assessing different aspects of the aerodromes, including: socio-economic profitability. In the hearings of the Committee, the Swedish Aviation Agency has stated that in the socio-economic review it is, for example: not assessed the value of airports for local business. Thus, the report does not give a picture of what the short-haul airports have and have had to say for the development of communities and business. The centre party has before, among others in the national transport plan, claim that a thorough assessment of the impact on the districts concerned must be carried out before any changes in the airport structure occur. We have also said that there must be transport improvements, so that changes in the structure of the aircraft do not lead to disadvantages for the regions in question. It cannot be said that we have put particular emphasis on this in the staging proposition put forward by the Government. So I'm glad that a multiple in the committee is not involved in the closure of aerodromes now, but I think that the airport structure should be handled at its full width in connection with the roll-out of NTP. In this review, a thorough information and assessment of the situation in the entire aviation sector in Norway must be carried out, an assessment of the individual aerodrome must be carried out on the basis of overall societal considerations, and a specific assessment of the role of aviation in the districts must be carried out. Should the Government also come back upon the roll-out of the NTP with proposals for aerodrome closure, the majority argued that remedial measures are in place before the possible closure of an aerodrome, unless otherwise accepted in the municipalities/areas covered by the closure. The majority also suggested that the Government add a completely different dialogue with the parties involved than has been the case so far. The Committee setting gives clear guidance on how the multiple of my processes should behave. With such a process, the basis for assessing the structure of the Short Path Network will be far better than that of the St.prp. No 61.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2401	A comprehensive, well-functioning provision of regular air transport services is necessary in a country such as Norway, with long distances and scattered settlements. There is no doubt about this. There's something I know that everyone in this room can join, both in position and in opposition. That is why this is not a debate on whether we are going to have air transport in Norwegian districts or not. We are going to – and the government is going to say that the state will contribute at least as strongly to it in the years to come as we have now. We have already committed more money to air transport than has been done in the past. Supplementary allocation to the Swedish Aviation Agency in the revised national budget and removal of air passenger charges, inter alia: on the main routes between North and South Norway, it is clear that the Government prioritises aviation in the districts. At the same time, we, who are responsible for the whole of the transport policy, must at all times ensure that we get as much transport as possible again for the resources we use. It is not a goal in itself to use as much government as possible to maintain the status quo if the same heads can provide better traffic. There has been a major development of both road system and alternative means of transport since the regional airport network was established a few decades ago. We also know that while the number of passengers on the short-haul network has increased by 25 pst in the last ten years, costs have increased by almost double. The fact that we always have the most appropriate and efficient air route network, with a high level of traffic and economic strength, is good district policy. This will benefit all aviation and travellers through an overall better air route offer and provide the opportunity for forward-looking investments that will make the future safer for the vast majority of airports and regions in aviation infrastructure. The Government of Stoltenberg announced at the time of the submission of the National Transport Plan that it would return to Stortinget with a separate case on the airport structure in time for any changes during the next tendering period. A broad majority, consisting of today’s government parties, the Workers’ Party and the Advance Party, were set up for such a review during the treatment of the NTP. The government of Stoltenberg took the initiative in the next round of the extensive investigations and socio-economic analyses for a selection of aerodromes on which this proposition is based. I notice that the majority at Stortinget, including the then government party, now believe that these investigations and analyses are far from satisfactory. Building on the clear signals a broad majority of the Storting has previously given, so this spring is the right time to take such a review. The Government has therefore proposed to make certain changes to the structure. We propose that the routes in the Vardø–Vadsø area be concentrated to Vadsø Airport, while the routes in Narvik–Harstad area are concentrated to Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes. In both cases, in the government's view, it will provide better regional solutions than we have today. We also propose that the Fenernes-Oslo tendering procedure be closed due to low traffic and good alternative transport options. Overall, this would also have strengthened the Aviation Agency’s economic space by nearly 50 million. kr every one year in the future. I take note, of course, that after all, the bulk of the population does not see this as the right time to make changes in the structure, but will wait until spring 2005. This means that both Vardø, Narvik and Fenres will continue to be in the bidding zone of the country to buy for the next three years. But it will also have clear costs. The ability of the Swedish Aviation Agency to finance itself will be further reduced, thereby weakening the ability to make necessary investments on the other regional aerodrome network. I believe that both the majority and the minority in this case are sincerely committed to making the provision of transport in the districts as best possible based on the needs of people and businesses. The proposal presented by the Government is the proposal that the Government believes provides the best transport for Norwegian districts overall. The majority of Stortinget has now rejected this proposal. The economic consequences of this, for other airports and for other transport purposes, the Government will have to come back in budgetary terms. Aviation has major economic challenges. The majority’s decisions here today do not reduce these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2428	In the case of St. Prp. No 61 on a common airport on Helgeland, some investigations have been made to replace Lake Mo, Lake Sandness and Mo in Rana. It's also stated in the proposition that weather availability is going to be low. It seems that you still want to explore the alternative to Stormoen and Drevja. Then my question is: doesn't the State Council, based on what the Swedish Aviation Agency has said now, think that maybe you should also look at other alternatives to replace the three airports if that's desirable? And why does the Council of State not listen to its profession when it has been informed that availability is low? Would it not then have been natural that other alternatives had also been identified? Why haven't you taken care of this, so you could have looked at the other possibilities and the issues that are around this? That's why we want to get a very concrete answer now as to why the Council of State has not taken it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2433	With regard to the airport structure in Norway, I am constantly looking for the best airport structure in terms of the needs we have here in the country. Therefore, I will not now refuse to consider any alternatives. To the extent that it should show up some alternatives I haven't heard of per. Today, of course, I'm willing to look at them, whether it's in Helgeland or it's elsewhere. Now there have been many contributions to doing something about specific aerodromes. My question is then: which airports do the representatives who have been in the specific airports want? Which airports will allow the Minister of Transport to assess in the next round? The way I interpret the submissions so far, you are in principle interested in analysing the airport structure, but I cannot fully interpret which airports you are actually interested in assessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2438	We have just dealt with the collective message in this room. There's a huge stake in some things. On the railway we're going to bet billions in the future, on trams in cities we're going to spend hundreds of millions in the future, busses are going to be given huge grants, etc. So, in total, you're going to give billions of supplements. The flight has been surrendered NOK 9 billion in debt. They have a deficit this year that seems to be 60 million. kr, to transport Oslo citizens to and from the airport. It seems to me that this government has a huge need to throw billions of dollars after transport, only they're on the rails! So as long as it's the right type of transport, they're going to throw billions of dollars. But when it comes to saving money, you have to put down three airports in the districts. You'll have to save 46 million. kr. So this is where you throw notes and you save your ears. It's completely incomprehensible. It seems to me that the government in celebrations is the guarantor of the districts, but when it comes to the realities, it is the Progress Party that has to strike to save it. And it's interesting when you see, as the representative Kjestad said, that it was to save money. So here you have the option of saving 46 million. NOK 46 million. in cigarette factories and shower factories. My question to the minister is: is it so that it is more civic to place this money in shares in cigarette factories and shower factories than to build transport infrastructure in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2445	That this government is throwing billions of dollars at rail tracks, I don't know if there's much agreement. That's possible, but I don't think that's what we've been able to do yet, even if we'd like to do it. With regard to what we have done in aviation, I would like to remind you that this government provided an easy value of NOK 1.5 billion when it came to the air passenger charge, as a contribution to getting the price level down. Additional funds have been provided that will also benefit from the regional airport network now in the revised national budget. We can't boast as much of that when it comes to public transport anyway at that level. So I really want to say that we have made a significant effort in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2457	A number of reasons have been identified for the poor economy of the Aviation Agency – 11 September and a decline in traffic is a major cause. But another reason is not mentioned at all, and it is called the Gardermoen. The Swedish Aviation Agency no longer has Fornebu as the money machine it was that brought large revenues to the Swedish Aviation Agency. Gardermoen doesn't do it that way, and as a result, the revenues have also failed. But I guess no one thought you'd have to set up airports in the districts to finance the operation of the Gardermo. That's not what I was going to ask, but I felt the need to mention it. What I was going to ask was the calculation of the 46 million. kr. As it turns out, you have to save. With regard to the Narvik region, the Minister of Transport has said that using Evenes will give you an equally good offer. However, the Government has not offered the Evenes-Bodø route as a compensation for Narvik-Bodø. So here there's no alternative offer. And then I ask the question: does the Minister for Transport mean that you should not have an alternative offer at all, and that you should take the car and drive to Bodø from Narvik? If you intend to make the trip on offer, there will be a cost. That cost is going to be an increased cost, and the calculation is going to be 46 million. So kr will not go up. So it's going to be a little bit of a saving. So I would like the Minister for Transport to say something about the fact that evens-Bodø has not been offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2464	We have the fact that there is air traffic between Evenes and Bodø and between Narvik and Bodø. Those who depend on using Evenes have a fairly poor offer compared to what Narvik has. Why? Well, because those who run the commercial routes between Bodø and Evenes see small shops doing it at the same time as they're going to go parallel to a route where the state is buying services. You don't find that commercially interesting. But I have received clear signals that if the passenger base improves on Evenes – and then I would remind you again that between 70 and 80 pst. by the passengers travelling from the municipality of Narvik, per Today actually travels from Evenes – it is commercially interesting to drive that route. That means you might drop out of tenders on that route. This means that the state saves money, and it gets a better offer for the region, which then depends on Evens. Here I would like to remind you that I have received good and strong input from the region that has just shown that if we had received a better offer between Bodø and Evenes, it would have been a great step forward for the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2469	First, a small comment to the Council of State, which has repeatedly stressed that by removing the passenger charge, one has given a great deal of light to air traffic. But now we're discussing the short-haul network and the FOT routes, and the passenger fee doesn't have much to say for them. So to the question. For parts of District Norway, and especially North Norway and the North West, the short-distance network has a decisive value for both bus and business life. In many places, the business community is located just near an aerodrome. This has not been assessed in the socio-economic context of the report prepared by Moreforsking for the Aviation Agency. Does the Council not see that an important aspect of the assessment of airports is precisely what they have to say to business? When a read St.prp. No 61 and the comments from the government party, the idea is that the issue of airport structure is largely an economic issue. Is it also the Council of State's view that there is an economy that should be the most important, perhaps the decisive aspect of the airport structure? Does the Council not think that the value of the airport structure for district development should be included, or is there something we should just add?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2478	The fact that the air passenger charge was lowered also affects the regional airport network, because traffic is increasing, and as a result it is becoming more economical for part of the aerodromes, also affects the overall economy of the Aviation Agency, and thus also the regional airport network. I would like to be allowed to stress that it actually has an impact on the entire airport network here in the country. So the effect of an aerodrome on business. It has a meaning. It's important that we get as good analysis as possible. To the extent that we don't have it, we have to work to ensure that we get the best possible analysis of these aspects as well. Then I will not forget that it actually has a meaning to the extent that the result of our policy is that we get a worse offer. It also has a major impact on business. And I'm a little afraid of that, too. So I would like to remind you of a question I have asked once before. Now it may not be my privilege to ask so many questions to the Stortinget, but I still want to do so: which airports will the Minister of Transport be allowed to assess in the next round? Because in several of the posts that have been, it is said that the next time the Minister of Transport comes back with an assessment — and it will come into the NTP. I really want to do this analysis, but I have to be allowed to know which airports will be allowed to participate in such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2490	I must first say that I am pleased that the Council of State was not as aggressive in its approach to the great majority as the case-speaker was. It might be that it's tricked, if one wants to get multiples for some things in this room ahead, that one doesn't make all of them enemies. To the question from the Council of State, which involves a question from me in the next round, I would say that this must apply to those airports where one has been compensated that the total social aspirations require them to be laid down. It is not a question of the economy of the economy of transport or of the economy of the Aviation Administration, but of the overall economic needs of transport to bring them down. It must apply to those airports where an acceptable alternative is in place before the aerodrome is laid down, including the accommodation service to and from the aerodrome, and to those airports where a good footing has been done in close cooperation with them, before suggesting that the aerodromes should be laid down and where it is accepted or in any case understood that one has to do so in a new way. Then my question to the Council of State is: can we assume that the Council of State makes these assessments before we get a new review of the airport structures in the National Transport Plan? It's not that we're not tough enough to shut down an airport, but there's a lot of interference in vulnerable communities. Then we must have a proper basis for decisions. In addition, we need proper time to deal with the issues. If so promised by the Council of State, we shall have a serious debate in connection with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2500	In the areas affected by this analysis carried out by the Swedish Aviation Agency, there was dialogue with municipalities and county municipalities. That's why we had some idea of what the views were about the concrete proposals for closure. This investigation was held in the department before the government change. That means there was nothing new here. We also know – not least from the recordings that have been made today – that a new review is not going to be any simpler than the one that has been. By no means. What the government of Stoltenberg presented in relation to the criteria for such analysis must be at the bottom of the picture. We've been through that before. The analysis so far has been that maybe the transport standard is so good in the country that there are airports per. today as it is possible to lay down. So evolution goes on, and maybe there will be new airports. In any case, it is natural – so humble you must be – that there is a local commitment because you do not want to lose what you experience as a good place to live and where you work, for that matter. A closure of an aerodrome will mean that someone is experiencing a loss. But what we have as our task is to assess: will the region and the community win on this? That's what we think is what we've put forward for Stortinget, and I have to repeat: I still don't see which airports the Stortinget sees that we can have in a serious analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2512	I note that the Minister for Transport has not just been instructed to come back with new proposals to shut down airports. Vardø Municipality is in a serious situation. A significant reason why there is an uncoordinated closure of State jobs. Individually, different sectors and agencies have come to the conclusion that they can reorganise their activities and that services to the population can be added elsewhere. But what can be rational for each department, for the Vardø community as a whole, has led to the hospital being closed, the telecom has been shut down, the post office has been shut down, the customs office has been shut down, the police master's office has been shut down, the emergency department has been shut down, the fisheries inspector has been shut down, the fishing office has been proposed, the work supervision has been shut down, the Norwegian Bank's department has been shut down, and the air defence station has been shut down. The sum of this is dramatic, partly by the fact that it has resulted in the loss of a large number of jobs, but also by the fact that the population sees a development in which the state withdraws, and therefore questions what the big community wants with the municipality. It hits the confidence and pride of a city where the inhabitants are proud of their city and its history. There are few, if any, municipalities that are so heavily affected by the transformations into public enterprises. Since 1985, Vardø has lost about 530 jobs. Since 1980, the population has been reduced by 32.5 pst. That was the background for the government's decision to grant Vardø status as an innovation and conversion municipality. At the same time, the government of Stoltenberg decided to set up 30-50 new state jobs to counteract the negative effects of previous closures. The Bondevik government has confirmed that. Then came the decision to shut down the State Fisheries Office. Then came the proposal to shut down Vardø Coast Radio, and then came the government's proposal to shut down Vardø Airport. The closure of the airport would mean that another stone would be torn away in the future of the municipality. The closure of the aerodrome would mean the elimination of opportunities for economic development. The closure of the airport would result in increased uncertainty of connection to hospitals, and under climatic conditions along the coast of Finnmark, not 75 km is always an hour's drive. It could be several hours' drive, the dividing line between life and death. Let me remind the Council of State: there has been no change in the other transport offer between Vardø and Vadsø since the airport was opened. I don't think there's been any change in climatic conditions either. I record that the government's own representative, the county council of Finnmark, also in a letter to the government, has expressed an understanding of the city council's frustration that, instead of contributing to growth, the means of conversion could go to cover state jobs that disappear after the municipality became a municipality of conversion. The County also understands that the City Council is calling for a coordinated strategy from the Government in relation to the municipality. I am therefore pleased that the majority in Stortinget today said no to the government's proposal to shut down Vardø airport. Then I will register Kjestad's concern for the Workers' Party. I can assure Kjestad that the Workers' Party will follow the promises made by the Party, and that is within the budgetary policy framework. All of a sudden, the right has become concerned that those who set up a majority for an action must also have a common budget. Now Kjästad is new in Stortinget, but did the Right majority have a deposit when they agreed to cash support? Did the Right have a majority for containment since the established majority to remove the property tax on so-called working capital? Had the Right Majority of Invasion since they changed the rules on housing taxation, since the specific appropriations for research at OECD level, when they created a majority of tax credits for research, and to move to these days, the Government and the Workers' Party have agreed to NOK 118 billion for Defence. Has Kjestad then seen any agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party on the impact for that? I haven't seen it. In fact, the government does not even agree with itself on how to pay for their own tax commitments drawn up in the Sem statement. Perhaps Kjästad would rather try to explain why the government will weaken the transport offer in District Norway. It may also be tempting to remind the Council of State that, at the same time as the passenger charge was removed, the zero rate of the VAT system was also removed. This means, in sum, that air transport charges in North Norway other than Tromsø and Bodø were increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2533	When I came into the room here and heard the case spokespersons in Kjästad, I actually wondered if we had come a long way into the debate on the revised national budget, which might be going somewhat later in this day. But the article was that one could actually get a little familiar with the Government and representatives of the Right Government Party, who have such a bad policy that they can't even talk about their own policies, but actually uses an article about regional airports and air traffic for a long tiger against the Labour Party's economic policy. We can promise the representative Kjästad that what the Workers' Party had to do with additions to the Government's proposal, we will have to work to cover in. Obviously, the government is very desperate, because we have the danger of an interest rate increase around the corner. Then I must remind the representative of Kjästad that when the revision is completed tomorrow, it is actually the Labour Party that has streamlined the budget by 680 million. kr. This is based on the risk of interest rate increase and on the situation of competitive business. When it comes to next year's budget, it's actually the government and government party that's tied it up more than anyone else, with a pledge out of the Sem statement of 30 billion dollars in taxes within the first four years. It is precisely this that makes the government so desperate, and that now they need to shift responsibility over to the opposition. It is probably just to finance this that the Bondevik government is pursuing a policy of drastic reduction of regional and industrial policy instruments and cannot remedy the precarious situation of municipalities, and thus now comes up with proposals to shut down regional air routes. Good communication is a crucial framework for industrial development and construction. Therefore, the proposal to terminate the state purchase of air routes on the Ferens, Narvik and Vadsø is an evil one for the regions affected here. The government uses as a basis a development of road systems and means of transport that change the need for routes. But when it comes to the Payers and Valdres region, I have to ask what this is. The region is in a communication behind, where it is extremely important to keep up the air route. The region also claims that the continuation of the air route is the individual issue that will have the greatest impact on the development of industry and the construction of the region in the future. The district also has a bet of approx. 70-80 million. trust that the State took its responsibility for the short-haul section and the route structure in line with that provided by previous flight plans and staging operations. In the 1990s, the combination of regular and charter traffic generated an annual economical gain of approx. 120 million. kr in addition to a large employment effect. When the Government and Government Party want to cut down the flight path by referring to small traffic, which was also the subject of government councils, and too large subsidies, this becomes directly inconsequential when only a user figures for 2000 as the basis. The year 2000 is the low target year for both regular and charter services: regular services because travel time was not in any way appropriate to the needs, and supply was broken and stopped, and charter services because the charter operator moved to Oslo at the end of 1999. If a person wants to think about this, one must at least look at the traffic rate over several years, which gives an annual average of 18,000 on scheduled and charter flights, including periods without a route. In addition to the traffic base and potential, it is very high in terms of more profitable operation. Not least, it has been a huge investment in the tourism industry that does this. It is not the traffic base, but the unstable and qualitatively poor route supply that has caused the downturn. From April 1st this year a new company started, and now we see a rising traffic figure. The proposal states that the Aviation Administration will maintain operations at Fernere airport, Leirin, so that charter traffic can be continued. The best thing to hear and do, but the problem is that regular services are the very foundation of both operation and charter traffic. Without the provision of routes, charter traffic is also weakened. In order for the routes on the Fenernes to be able to demonstrate their right to life, there is a need for a good and careful route offer over a minimum of three years. And I think the department here should evaluate a connection between Ferne's airport and the airports in the West. 15 flights cross the Valdres area every day. If a plane could interconnect on Leirin in the morning and in the evening, it had to be a good solution. It would provide new opportunities for tourism industries, increase traffic potential very much and, not least, bring great socio-economic benefits. This is a solution pointed to by the Valdres region, and when the Minister of Transport has expressed in this process that she would be loud to all local recordings to develop a route offering that suits the population, I expect this to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2550	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2553	The majority of this setting considers that questions of aeroplane structure should be fully addressed in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan. We in the Workers' Party believe that a perspective should be what opportunities and development potential are associated with a good aerodrome and travel offer, and not just relatively limited cost assessments. The working party considers that assessments of the inclusion of other aerodromes and, where appropriate, the need for new ones instead of existing aerodromes should be considered in such a context. There's hope in hanging strings, it's said. Repeated times both in the main hall and through written questions, I have interrogated the Minister of Transport about the Lista Airport in Farsund. Equally many times, my community and I have remained unanswered. The last time was a written question on 10 June this year. The question was: ‘What are the criteria for accessing the short-range network?’ The answer was that Lista was approx. 100 km from Kjevik, and that E39 goes through the West Agder state. Firstly, the distance to the list is not correct. But what kind of answer is this? I asked what the criteria for getting into the short-range network were. Then I expect an answer to that. I'm from the region, and of course it's unnecessary to tell me. The travel time from Lista to Oslo is 5 hours, is travel time a criterion? The region has a wretched road network, is this a criterion? West-Agder states and the municipality of Farsund have applied for operating grants, is this something that is being emphasised? Last week, Stortinget adopted a new road network in the region. When the road is completed in 3 to 4 years, the aerodrome will not need State resources. The airport was a military airport until the defense shut down its operations in the 1990s. If the activity sponsored by private individuals is discontinued today, the cost of the country’s clean-up will amount to approximately 500 million. kr. It must be possible to use common sense. There's hope in hanging strings! Thus, the Council of State has received a specific aerodrome which she can assess in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2564	The route operation at Leirin Ferensen Airport was withdrawn from the tendering procedure proposed by the Government. In the staging proposition from the Council of State, there is nothing about charter traffic from abroad. Nor does it say a word about the aviation school that is now established at the airport of Fernes, nor a single word about the NATO courses that are taking place every winter. The entire landfill proposal consists of negativity and actual errors. The number of users is referred to years when the aerodrome was largely non-scheduled. Furthermore, there is a satisfactory collective offer from Fenders to Gardermoen. A satisfactory collective offer is for the department 25 km by bus Ferens – Oslo, so wait and switch to the bus to Gardermoen. So 250 kilometers and 5 hours are satisfactory for the department. It's incredible, but true. That people thus take the car the shortest way through Uppland, namely Rv 33 to Gardermoen, seems for the department to be absolutely incredible. In our negotiations with the government parties, the department had put in that natural way of travel into the big world by plane from Sogndal. Think about it! Where are the geography skills of the department? Car or public transport from Fenernes over Fillefjell, then ferries over the fjord and then flights from Sogndal to Gardermoen before going out into the big world. This came from the department. That this department doesn't have much sense of Valdres, I've known for many years, but the husband of poor geography I've never met before. It's over. Let Leirin have 3 years, and I hope that Arctic Air will receive the new tender at the next round of tenders. They will already have three times the number of passengers that the Aviation Agency has in its forecasts this year. Then I would like to remind the Oslo representative, Kjæstad, that the savings are only 46 million. NOK for three airports in District Norway. When the representative of Kjästad uses the flight to Gardermoen, Kjästad, the Oslo representative, has received 9 billion SEK in State aid and this year the deficit is 60 million. kr, because 45 km on the motorway was too long. So it is the representative of Kjestad who is the most precious to taxpayers, and the Oslo representative should apologize to District Norway, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2577	This Mr. President is a lady. There's no way to figure out what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2580	Sorry, it's a long night.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2585	The main feature of the Christian People's Party is held. I have first of all asked for the floor to ask for the vote to be put to the vote so that I can vote against both proposals in the vote. I want to make it clear that it doesn't mean that in the future I won't be involved in shutting down airports, with remedial measures in place. But there is one airport that is proposed to shut down, which I cannot help laying down, and it is Vardø Airport. That is one reason why I have to vote against the minority proposal. As far as the majority proposal is concerned, I believe that it is too far off to prescribe what the Government should take into account in relation to the submission to the national transport plan. I therefore ask for an opportunity to vote against both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2592	This time I'm going to try to put it in such a way that there's not a big exchange of lines. To the Labour Party representatives who were concerned about what I said, I would like to reiterate that it was probably so right to address some of the questions to the representative, Mr Jagland, about the comments I had in that way. It was not primarily the balancing element I was concerned with, but more who you try to salve with, which was the associations I tried to give. Otherwise, it is entirely wrong that the government parties in this case have tried to concentrate on savings. In fact, we believe that overall we can get a better flight offer by bringing together the airports that are as close as they are to each other. And after the trip we made in Finnmark, I have a clear sense that outside Vardø, and in North Norway outside Narvik, the views vary greatly on what serves the region, not on the basis of cutting down on something here and there, but on the basis of what overall provides a better aviation offer. That's the grip that the Storting has to take, the grip that we understand can be unpopular in some places, but that's what we think it's all necessary to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2613	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox [[See page 3541]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2629	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 25 and No 26 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[See page 3541]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2658	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party, Right and Advance Party 10 minutes each, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2669	In spite of a somewhat heated debate in the previous case, I would like to thank the Council of State for its good work, a work that had to be done at political level to find its solution, and a work that would enable the development of E6 to be completed through Eastfold. We have zero vision for traffic, a vision that no one is going to die or get hurt. In Eastfold, the oars have our many and large. The last time this week, two young people died on E6. It's pointless. Completely meaningless. The working party has met victims and relatives in Eastfold before. There are strong experiences. Of course, there are many other dangerous road sections in Norway that also need to be improved. But now it's about E6 in Eastfold. Many have been concerned about relieving E6 through Eastfold. We also have that in the Labour Party. The road is of course most important for the eastern folds, but it is also particularly important for passenger and goods transport from and to Norway as a whole. I appeal to people who believe everything is very well here in Austland, that it is little sense to come quickly and safely to Oslo over the mountain or along the coast if one gets stuck in line on poor and unsafe Eastfold roads. E6 and E18 are our main trajectories to Sweden and down to Europe, and new roads will bring great benefits to business as well as to individuals. In the budget setting for this year, the Labour Party stated that we saw very seriously the heavy accident figures on the tribal roads through Eastfold, and that we saw it as a pity that the whole Eastfold package was completed earlier than planned in the National Transport Plan. The majority also express the desire for redundancy in the budget setting. The working party added 40 million. kr extra in the financial setting, something we unfortunately did not get multiples for. But now we're naked. Then it is so that a wide multiple, all the unaccepted Progress Party, today goes in for 100 pst. toll financing for Svinesundsbrua and the deployment of E6. We're going in for that. Swinesundsbrua is built for opening 7 June 2005 – not to open up a new union with Sweden, but to open up for better communication between the two former Union countries, the Eastfold Package 1 with four-field motorway between Oslo and Gothenburg can be completed in 2009, at least 6–8 years before what was included in the national transport plan plans. This is a national case. It's an important national matter. So the plural can live well with the fact that it's 100 pst. toll financing of bridge. We have registered the resistance in Halden Municipality and in individual user organisations. We understand to the extent that this resistance, but when the county supports this, there is also the majority to be able to do it. So about E18 through Eastfold. The same plurality, as the government has suggested, that an accelerated deployment of E6 in Eastfold should not go beyond E18 through the state. Since there is now an approved regulatory plan for the Sekelsten–Krosby section, we are open to the possibility for the toll company to raise loans in order to advance the start of the project, but the Council of State will come back to this in the context of the 2003 budget. It is a point for the activity and digging machines to see if it is not too long. Then to all those from other states who had to listen to this – late at night. It is a premise that this should not result in reprioritisation of government funds from other states. I think I have a lot of things with me when I now express joy that the case has found such a good solution. In the case of Document No: 8:134, proposals from representatives of the Progress Party, the majority have said that we will return to the individual sections mentioned in the document, in the national transport plan – and in the context of the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2710	I would like to join in what the rapporteur has put forward. I want to add a little bit from myself – and from the Right point of view. Unlike the Stoltenberg government, this government has been able to support the development of E6 for several years. That is why I want to give tribute to the Council of State. The E6 through Østfold continues to have major headlines in the national media. Every time I see the E6, I connect it with something tragic. The road section is heavily traffic-laden and many tragic accidents occur here. This route is an important transport corridor to and from the continent, especially for heavy traffic between Norway and Sweden. The 2002–2011 national transport plan does not specifically mention the finalisation of the Eastfold package. However, the framework of the transport plan means that completion could take 15-20 years. In the 2002 budgetary procedure, the majority of the Committee on Transport stated the following, and I refer to the Budgetary Section. S. No 13 for 2001–2002. ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party, will refer to the strong growth of traffic on E6 through Eastfold in recent years. E6 through Østfold is Norway’s main road route for exports and imports on the road and it is important that the route is extended to four-field motorways faster than was foreseen during the treatment of the Eastfold package by Storting.’ Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government has presented this proposition. It means the forced extension of E6 in Eastfold to the four-field motorway. The aim is for it to be completed in 2009. The proposal includes joint toll financing with Sweden of the new Svinesund link. This compound is removed from the Eastfold package and the released funds are to be used for the reinforced deployment of E6 in Eastfold. E18, which is part of the Eastfold package, will not be affected by this and will progress as planned. As regards the route Sekelsten–Krosby, new E18 through Østfold, it has started in 2004, according to the National Transport Plan. We are aware that there is a complete control plan for this section, and signals from the local team are a wish for a launch earlier. The right is in favour of the possibility for the towing company to take up loans in order to speed up the start-up, in accordance with plans to ensure the rational development of the parcel. We will also come back to the matter in the context of the 2003 budget. With this advance in the development of E6 and E18 through Eastfold, we have every reason to rejoice. The new route through Westfold shows us the importance of investing in four-field roads where traffic volumes are high and increasing. We save many lives, and many human tragedies will be avoided. This investment must also be seen as a good socio-economic investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2737	It is a pleasure that the Council of State has finally come a little way in terms of E6. It took a really long time. State councils have followed in the footsteps of former state councils for poor treatment of Norwegian road construction — and in particular E6. E6 through Østfold is Norway’s main road for exports and imports by road. For decades after decades, the roads on the Norwegian side have been starving, while the Swedes have expanded almost to the Norwegian border and will be finished by 2005. The state councils have made a small attempt at a spin-off extension, but here all the parties, except the Progress Party, have once again put the costs on the drivers – bombs everywhere, now also one to finance the new Svinesund Bridge. The Progress Party will progress in the development of E6/E18 from Svinesund/Ørje via Oslo to Kristiansand. The road projects proposed by the Progress Party cover a total of more than 2 million. residents, i.e. 47 pst. by the population of the country. The proceeds of taxes on cars and car use for the current year are over 32 billion kroner – without tolls. 47 pst. of this is approx. SEK 15.4 billion. Thus, the construction price of this entire huge road system is financed by the general car and petrol charges of users in less than eight months. Another factor is that the number of road accidents will be drastically reduced. The new four-field line on E18 between Drammen and Horten is a very illustrative example. There were 2–3 deaths per year and 25–30 injuries per year. years before the expansion. After the expansion and introduction of the 100 kilometers speed limit, the accidents are almost zero. A comprehensive four-field road system on the country's densely tested road sections will save society enormous resources and reduce the number of new road victims. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party, which has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2752	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2755	The five minutes I have available, I will not use, but I will take the word to clarify the SV's position on the matter. We support the proposal for an accelerated deployment of E6 through Eastfold. We believe that the way in which this is solved, by releasing money from the Svinesund link to the maintenance of the Eastfold package, makes sense. This solution will contribute to the improvement of a highly accident-affected road billing. Better development will, hopefully, help reduce the number of accidents more quickly. The economic solution can be implemented without the need to re-prioritise investment in other parts of the country. In our comment, we have focused heavily on the fact that this service must not go beyond or weaken the competitiveness of the railway in relation to the road through Eastfold. If that is the case, it is likely that in 10 to 15 years there will be a need to extend the motorway perhaps to both six and eight fields, and that would not be desirable. This is why it is so important to see traffic problems through Eastfold also in a long-term perspective. It will be imperative to have more of the freight traffic on the railways in the years ahead. Therefore, in the years ahead, investment into the double-track railway through Eastfold must be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2764	The Ministry of Transport has already decided on 7 June 2005 as the opening date for a new bridge across the border between Sweden and Norway. This means that progress is taken seriously. The Ministry of Transport has also proposed a financing plan that could help to speed up the deployment of E6 through Eastfold and end by 2009, which we are very pleased to see. In this connection, I would say that the Christian People's Party is pleased with this effort. Now the E6 champions can release the cheer. For both the Christian People's Party in Eastfold and me, this is a brand day. I think I can say with boldness that this is my best day on Stortinget for a very long time. I have been fighting for the Eastfold Package including the E6 for many years, the last eight months as a member of the Transport Committee. During these months it has been hard work, but now I can see an end to one of the busiest road sections through Eastfold with a positive result. The financing of E6 is already under way. The money required at the border toll station is allocated to this project. A new bridge over Ringdalsfjorden will be a split layer between Norwegian and Swedish drivers. New toll stations will not be set up until the new bridge is completed. This allows the drivers to see the result before payment is made. I would like to oppose the representative Nistad when he directly misinformed that the Council of State has not shown any commitment to this matter. On the contrary, I would like to give a great reward to Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm, who already, after a few weeks in his position, deliberately started work on this matter, and who has shown a willingness to listen to the signals. She has kept her promises of a faster expansion. Many governments before her have raised the E6 issue over the years on the agenda. Not only the lack of appropriations from Stortinget has delayed the matter, but also the negotiations with the Swedes have withdrawn. We finally agreed on the toll concept and the location of the bridge, and I would therefore like to thank the State Council for a very good work done. Proposals for full financing of the new Svinesund link with tolls from a common Norwegian-Swedish toll regime at the national border at Svinesund are important. It is positive that the gap between the Swedish and Norwegian sides should be resumed. A common Norwegian-Swedish toll scheme would result in the Svinesund link being extracted from the Eastfold package. Proposals are made for the use of funds thus released to support the deployment of E6 through Eastfold. Such a scheme could contribute to the completion of E6 through Østfold as a continuous four-field motorway during 2009. This is a very important matter – for the county and for Norway. A toll scheme is in line with the previous decision of the Storting. The size agreed to initiate toll collection in the first phase of the Easternfold package in order to partly finance the deployment of E6 through Eastfold to the four-field motorway and remaining parcels on E18 through Eastfold to the two- and possibly partially four-field motorway. The toll ratio was then assumed to be at least 50 pst. E6 traffic through Eastfold is larger than most other road sections in the country. The road is too poor a standard, and the number of serious road accidents is increasing. Unfortunately, we've seen this all the way to the last few days. This is an important development that the Government has now taken seriously and has been willing to accelerate. Furthermore, I am pleased that the acceleration of the E6 expansion should not be at the expense of the expansion of the E18 through Østfold. This way, too, still needs our attention as a central element of the Eastfold package — phase 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2783	The case spokesperson had a thorough review of the case, and I can mainly join in what was said about the situation of the E6 in Eastfold. I can therefore also make my post very short, but I would like to express my satisfaction with the Swedish Government's agreement on full toll financing for the new Svinesundsbrua. And that's exactly what opens up for a job with E6 by allowing the funds that were to be used for a bridge to be added to E6. E6 in Eastfold has been a high priority for a long time, but with the tight commercial budget, the planned extension period has been longer than many would like. It is therefore very gratifying that it is now possible to support the development without prejudice to other projects, corks in Eastfold or other places in the country. The centre party has also registered requests from local authorities for faster start-up of the Parcel Cekelsten–Krosby on E18. And when there is an approved regulatory plan for this section, we are in favour of opening up to Østfold Bompengegesellschaft the possibility to raise loans in order to promote start-up – then the principle must be that the company submit plans to ensure the rational progress of the couple, so that one avoids stoppages and extra costs of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2792	First, I would like to say that I am pleased with the statements made by the case rapporteur, the government parties and the centre party, and by SV, who have also supported this arrangement. One of the first things I did as a new Minister of Transport last autumn was to frighten Eastfold to look at the conditions associated with E6 through the county. The situation has become increasingly unsustainable, with many tragic traffic accidents and poor performance. In my view, it was absolutely necessary to provide for the development of this road, both in terms of traffic volume and not least road safety. The scheme now proposed by the Government will allow the four-field E6 in Eastfold to be completed in 2009. It's as early as it is per day. it is currently possible to complete the development plan and plant engineering and many years earlier than foreseen in the national transport plan. With the financing facility of Stortinget now joining, the four-field E6 will be completed until Åsgård is completed in 2005, among others. Because we're making an additional 40 million available. in 2002 to accelerate the expansion of the Jonsten–Patterød route. I am very pleased that a majority in Stortinget, consisting of the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Central Party, supports the Government's proposal. I would like to stress that E6 through Eastfold is one of our most important roads. Development will benefit not only the people of Eastfold, but the whole country. Not least it concerns business. The majority also support the Government’s proposal for toll financing of the new Svinesund link, so that a new bridge at Svinesund can be completed in 2005, at the 100th anniversary of the Union resolution. It will now be possible to address the work of the Svinesund link already in the meantime. New Svinesund connection includes four-field road between Nordby in Sweden and Swingenskogen in Norway, including a new bridge over Iddefjorden. As stated in the proposal, the deployment of E6 shall not be at the expense of the deployment of E18 through Østfold. The development of E18 is also important. In line with the majority position, I will return to the State Budget Stortinget for 2003 with a proposal for further progress for the Sekelstein-Krosby project at E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2807	No one has asked for the word in reply. The next speaker is Svein Roald Hansen, then Martin Engeset – randomly, the president would assume, but there are some Eastern folds waiting here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2813	The President is probably right about that, because it's a joyous day for everyone who's struggled to speed up the development of the E6 to a modern four-field road through Eastfold, than the Stortinget decided a year ago. The representative Anne Berit Andersen said that it needed a new government to get to what the previous government was unable to do. I believe that the current government parties and the Workers' Party together must take responsibility for the fact that when the Eastfold package was adopted last year, it had an extension perspective of 15 to 16 years. I must almost remember that the government of Stoltenberg provided an extra allocation for planning. It was a prerequisite for the planning work to be able to speed up, and is a prerequisite for our adoption of 2009 as a final goal. But I like to give flowers to the Council of State for the commitment she has shown in the matter, and because she has today kept what she has promised, to come to the Stortinget with a proposal that involves a much faster expansion. I expect that she will also provide the necessary funds when the road map is due to be rolled in 2005, because it is the next prerequisite for keeping this new timetable. Getting a four-field E6 through Eastfold is important for Eastfold. But it's equally important for business throughout South Norway. 70-75 pst. of all goods transported in and out of the country to cross this road. But above all, this is important for road safety reasons. Too many people have had to pay for their lives or have been seriously strangled on this six-mile stretch. And as others have said, the last fatal accident happened on Tuesday and killed two young people. The decision last night – we almost have to say – will ensure that road users can look forward to driving on a much safer road, six to seven years earlier. It will save many lives and many accidents. The decision of the fourth year could not be taken because, if the plan of progress had been followed, the road would not have been completed until a few years after the booms had been brought down. In that case, there would probably be a new and doubtful record of toll financing in this country. Now, of course, it would be desirable if we could settle down with one bomb on this road section and avoid toll financing on the Svinesund Bridge, but the Swedes would do it differently. We're going to have to withstand this extra boom, in terms of dropping six to seven more years with a life-threatening road map, where traffic increases by up to 10 pst. This year. And everyone who had to worry that the trade trip to Sweden would be a little more expensive, I can rest assured: it has already been reported in the newspapers that the shops in the Svinesund area have announced that they will refund the toll after the trade has been done. It is also gratifying that SV supports this extension which is now being adopted, although according to the newspapers, one of the party's members in the Committee on Transport does not support so many cars on the E6 when the Committee visited Østfold earlier this year. E6 is part of the Eastfold package, which also includes the development and upgrading of E18, the second major year out and into the country south. It is gratifying that a majority will open up the possibility of speeding up the development of the Aschemian Parcel by allowing the bomber to borrow. It's just as important to get faster on this road as on E6. Finally, the Progress Party has its own proposal on this extension – a Document No. Eight proposals. There are two things to say about this proposal. One is that it is presented by the good old Progress Party with populist freedom of choice, without the possibility of being adopted. Secondly, this proposal shows that the Progress Party still has a piece to go before it is fully mature as a possible government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2846	The next speaker is Martin Engeset, then Signe Eye – all from Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2849	Yeah, actually, it's kind of funny that it's basically just Eastfold representatives who are taking part in this debate. In fact, I think this is a matter that is more important to Norway than just to Eastfold, if we look at it in the broad perspective. It is a great joy and truly a personal satisfaction to be able to take the floor here today, or rather tonight, from the pulpit of Norway's National Assembly on the second last day of the spring session – now it has actually gone over to the very last – in confidence that the Stortinget, by a very large majority, will immediately adopt a strong reinforcement of the development of the four-field E6 through Eastfold. The rapid completion of the four-field E6 through Eastfold has been an important issue for the Right in Eastfold and for me for many years. The fight has been on many fronts: local government, county councils, programming processes and budget debates – right up to this hall. Who's counting the lost battles on the winner's day? Today we can see that it took a new government to get this case on track. That is why there is every reason to give homage to the Minister of Transport who, only after a few weeks on the Law of the Council of State, showed action and went from word to word. Thanks also to the committee chair and the Committee on Transport, which, at its rapid examination, made it possible to bring the matter under consideration in this session. This is really a big political victory, because what was the starting point? Let me remind you about that. Only six years ago, the four-field E6 through Østfold was expected to be completed by 2025 or 2030 – with the lice crowns of annual road appropriations that this road was provided with when Kjell Opseth was Minister of Transport. Provocative enough for us east folds ended the four-field E6 past Westby right on the border between Eastfold and Akershus. What we were fed on was a few short plots with a hybrid solution of a wooden road – perhaps not so strange when until 1997 the political majority in Eastfold County was unable to make the natural demands to state authorities, namely about four-field E6 through Eastfold. The right was voted down in Eastfold County when we demanded this, and we were tried to ridicule by political opponents, among others. from the Workers' Party, characterized us as the party for free movement. The county council in Eastfold finally came to its senses and concluded on the Right request for the four-field E6 through Eastfold. Phase I of the Eastfold Package was born, and with Dørum as Minister of Transport, the principle of hard work and fissure was put to work. With half state funding and half user funding, the Eastfold Package phase I was beaten through in the Stortinget, not last year, but in February 2000. The four-field E6 should now be completed by 2016 or 2017. Of course, this was a progress, but it was still so completely meaningless that it would take at least 16-17 years to build six miles by road. There is reason to stress that Phase I of the Eastfold Package consists of three main elements: the Fourfield E6, the Two and Part Fourfield E18 through Eastfold, and the construction of a new railway parcel through Moss. In total, these three elements of the Eastfold package form a whole. However, the proposition that we are dealing with here today is primarily about forcing one of these elements, namely four-field E6. However, I am very pleased that the Committee on Transport has taken action that can make it possible to increase the momentum also on the E18, so that we can get started with the important parcel past and around the Ashim. There is reason to note that this is primarily an important national transport case. 55 pst. imports and exports of the country on the road are on E6 over Svinesund. If we also take E18 over Ørje, we talk about 75-80 pst. of Norway’s land-based freight transport in and out of Norway. E6 through Eastfold has been given the tragic nickname Death Road, with 55 killed in the last ten years. This is an Axe accident every three years. From such a perspective, E6 should have been closed a long time ago. With the arrangement adopted here later this night, it is at the start of construction shortly after the summer, with full support for the expansion. With the commitment and zeal of the State Road Administration in Eastfold and local regulatory authorities in this case, I actually believe that maybe we should also be able to complete the four-field E6 throughout Eastfold earlier than in 2009. In any case, we're going to be able to finish at the same time as the Swedes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2866	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2869	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the setting up of a forced deployment of E6 through Østfold and the new Svinesundsbro. That's good news, not just for us who come from Eastfold, but for all those who drive on this road, which is the main route to the continent. Therefore, this is not just an Eastfold case, but, to the most extent, a national case. Bad road standards have led to many fatal accidents. 716 people were injured or killed by E6 during the last decade. Yesterday, a tragic fatal accident occurred in which two people were killed. That's why it's so important for us to support the development. It has also gradually understood the Storting. That's why many people are going to have the credit for making such a decision today. During the last decade, the E18 has had an almost equivalent accident rate. 655 has been damaged or killed during the last decade. These are creepy numbers. It is therefore very gratifying that, during the course of the study in Stortinget, the Committee is also in favour of speeding up the start of the route Cekelsten–Krosby on E18 than provided for in the national transport plan. The majority will allow Østfold Bompengegesellschaft to borrow in order to accelerate the project. The toll company is now given the task of providing plans to ensure the rational development of the parcel, so as to avoid any stoppages and additional work costs. The chief of roads in Eastfold says that this offers new opportunities. The road authorities have the plans clear and can start already from New Year, one and a half years earlier than foreseen. This is good. The decisions taken here tonight will allow the E6 to be expanded six years earlier than previously agreed by the Stortinget. Gradually, it has been proven that four-field roads with physical divisions, such as E6, will produce few or no fatal accidents or serious accidents. The gloomy numbers of the last ten years show that what the Stortinge will do tonight will save over 400 lives or seriously damaged people. There's a reason to enjoy. I noticed that SV is not included in the comments. They will not vote in favour of the proposals that lie here, and will vote against them. And the Progress Party still has the belief that the roads in Eastfold can be built without tolls, and thus stand out of any influence. It's a cross of thought when you know how many lives here we can count on saving.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2884	It's not because of my special speech urge that I take the floor at noon. 01.40. but eager for the facts of the case. Right in Eastfold, who went to the elections on this, wanted to do what was in our power to get a forced expansion of E6 and E18 through Eastfold. It is very gratifying that the government, and now the great crowd later this night, have taken the signals from the Eastern folds. The 30-year battle is finally crowned with the forced expansion of E6 through Eastfold. The times of the “bloodway” are nearing their end. Endless cows, deaths and many injuries have affected the decision on a new E6 through Eastfold. 21 June 2002, is a good day for the whole of Eastfold, but also for Norway, especially in terms of safety, and not least in relation to Norwegian business. If you look in St. prp. No 68, it says: ‘For the Norwegian part of the project, a net cost-benefit ratio calculated at 0,2. It is mainly savings in time and vehicle costs as well as savings and reduced accident costs that make the project profitable.» [[(720 million) (kr)]] [[(320 million) (kr)]] Government plans are a clear priority of E6 and Eastfold due to increased traffic volumes and poor road safety. Eastfold has been the oppressed state for a long time, and the Workers' Party's epoch in the government quarters sent the money in completely different directions. New government costs have led Eastfold to a map after many years of desert-free migration where nothing happened. The old plans adopted by the previous survey as late as 2001, had no plan for E6 to be completed. I'm reading from Innst. S. No 265: ‘NTP 2002-2011 does not specify when the development will be completed. However, the framework of the transport plan means that completion of E6 in Eastfold could take 15-20 years.» In 1973, when E6 was built into a two-field road, it was also arranged for a four-field extension, but no one thought it would take up to 50 years for a four-field extension. It has to be clear that the volume of traffic in the last five years has increased by 53 pst. In addition, I would like to mention that traffic through Østfold accounts for approx. 80 pst. of all road and rail traffic to the rest of the world. The Government's programme, the Sem Declaration, also promoted a transport policy that ensures good accessibility and efficient transport corridors. This is a good example of this, and I would like to quote Minister of Transport Skogsholm, who has been a very strong champion of Eastfold, and I would like to thank her for the effort she has made: ‘This is unsustainable, and the government therefore wants to accelerate the expansion’, the Minister said. I would like to thank the Government and the Minister of Transport for the work she has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2906	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 25 and 26. [[See pages 3541 and 3542]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2922	The Party of Progress proposes in Document No. 8:106. The Stortinge gives the Government the power to surrender 3.6 billion kroner granted as a loan to Oslo Airport AS, Gardermoen. It is argued in Document No. The 8th proposal that the values of Fornebu, approx. NOK 2.3 billion, not in its entirety transferred to Gardermoen, as the assumption was. I would like to point out, on behalf of the majority of the Committee, all but the members of the Progress Party, that in 1999 EUR 2.3 billion was allocated over the Aviation Agency's budget for deposits on subordinated loan capital from the Swedish Aviation Agency to Oslo Airport AS. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry that the terms for the injection of equity into Oslo Airport AS are thus fulfilled. I note that the proposers have changed their reasoning after the department's response was available. I quote from the setting: ‘These members consider it unreasonable that passengers should pay all additional costs due to the fact that the main airport at the Gardermoen was much more expensive than if another location had been chosen.’ It is, in my opinion, a different argument than that underlying it in Document No. The 8th proposal. In the Christian People's Party, we interpret the reverse operation in the argument as an expression that the Progress Party realizes that the values of Fornebu in their entirety have been transferred to Gardermoen. The difficult situation for aviation and for the airline economy will come back to us in the annual budgets. The Christian People's Party is part of the majority of the Committee, which rejects the proposal put forward in Document No. 8:106.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2940	It's not right that we've changed the argument. The same argument is stated in Document No. The 8 that we have presented. The report of the Swedish Aviation Agency, which was published on 15 April 1986, concluded that: «Socio-economic costs for the period 1987 to 2014, discounted until 1987 will be €6.7 billion. higher in the selection of the Gardermo than the split traffic II option’. [[1995-kronor]] This amount will, of course, be associated with considerable uncertainties. Nevertheless, part of the extra costs of locating Gardermoen should be lifted by passengers' shoulders. Apparently, a debt cancellation of NOK 2 billion is proposed as a result of the additional costs of location on the Gardermoen. In total, I propose that Oslo Airport be given a debt cancellation of NOK 3.6 billion. I am therefore addressing that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2954	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27. [[See page 3542]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2972	In Document No: 8:137 from Jan Arild Ellingsen, André Kåkkestad and Kenneth Svendsen on the right of authorised taxi company to collect taxi tickets/driving tickets for persons convicted of violence and assault, and persons who have acted improperly in their work, many important matters are raised. As the proposers also say, it is very negatively related to the taxi industry, especially in Oslo. In a look-up on newspapers and TV, an image of an industry that clearly needs something more – a legislative and regulatory framework that ensures both drivers, owners and not least passengers. Now I will immediately stress that also in this case it is the very few that destroy the many. But there's no reason not to do anything. In Document No: 8:137 refers to matters that obviously need to be changed. The intentions of the proposals in the setting are also good, but it would be wrong if we almost turned down over the table in an entire industry. The improvement of the taxi industry is so important and the case is so complex that such proceedings cannot be relied upon. In addition, other factors need to be considered, including: the possibility of registering each licence as a limited liability company. I refer to the suspension of the new Transport Act, which was recently dealt with here at Stortinget. The government has in Ot.prp. No 74 informed them that they would quickly return to Stortinget with a case about the need to test taxi licenses. In this case, it would be natural to deal with the matters described in this case and the Inst. O. No Sixty-six. Only then will we get sufficient width in the matter. I am sure the Minister for Transport is also concerned about improving the situation of passengers, owners and drivers in the taxi industry. That is why I feel absolutely certain that the Minister for Transport, when presenting a case on needs testing, has a broad review of the taxi industry. This deserves passengers and those in the taxi industry. Therefore, the Labour Party and the majority consider that this should be dealt with in the context of the alert on the case of need testing and that Document No. 8:137 for 2001 to 2002 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e2994	That's often the case in this Chamber when the Progress Party proposes, that you're up on the platform and you agree very much, but from there and to get people to vote for proposals, it doesn't happen all the time. The representative says you can't deal with this, because it came over the table. That's not right, it didn't get over the table. Document No The 8 is presented in this room in a proper way, it's sent to a committee, it's been handled in a proper way in the committee, it's probably in the ministry, so it's gone all round. So this is a serious treatment of a case, where you conclude with the opposite of what you say. And this is a problem, especially in Oslo. It is constantly read in the media that taxi drivers who are convicted of violence and abuse have committed violence and abuse against passengers or have shown extremely inappropriate behaviour without having any impact on the working situation. The taxi industry depends on confidence between drivers and customers in order to operate its business. This trust has now been significantly reduced following repeated appeals and complaints against drivers from the public who have not shown up. I also refer to Innst.O no. 66, setting of Ot. pp. No 74, where we've written something about this. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3005	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 28. [[See page 3542]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3024	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3041	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3058	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3075	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3083	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. Before voting, the President will thank the Social Committee, the Municipal Committee, the Committee on Transport and the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs for the cooperation, so that it was possible to finish within such an acceptable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3092	In the course of the debate 53 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Reidar Sandal, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, no. 8-10, by Mr Sandal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 11-22, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 23–39, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 40 to 45, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposals. 46 to 52, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 53, from Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Coastal Party Proposal No. 53, from the Coastal Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government in the context of the 2003 State Budget assume that corporate tax is to be paid by municipality and that it be due to the municipality in which the production takes place, irrespective of the company’s head office.’ [[n]] [[e]] The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 48, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2003 to put forward proposals to introduce a state top-financing for specific resource-requiring users of municipal services where 80 pst. of the municipalities’ expenditure in excess of NOK 600 000 per year. user is covered by the State.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3139	The proposals are then put to the vote. 46, 47, 49, 50, 51 and 52 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The total income in the local government sector shall be 7,6-8,1 billion. EUR for 2003. ‘... Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce changes in the income system containing an administrative supplement for children’s and young people’. Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The measure empowers the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to allocate 3,744 million. EUR for 2003. The media have been proposed over the cover. 571 Framework grants to municipalities and cap. 572 Framework grants to county municipalities.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to contribute to making the consultation system between the State and the local government sector more binding so that the total resources within the public sector can be better used, not least by taking a greater responsibility for the implementation of government policies together.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2003 budget, to add start-up incentives to 4000 building units as part of the phasing-out of the old-age plan.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: «The growth of free income in the local government sector shall be EUR 5.05 billion. expenditure for 2003.’;» The Coastal Party has announced that they will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3182	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It asks the Government in the 2003 budget to submit a plan for reduced ownership interests in the local government sector.’.» The Coastal Party and the Advance Party have notified that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3199	There is a vote on proposal No. 44, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a state top funding for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services in 2003, with all expenditures above SEK 600 000 per year. user is covered by the State.» Here the Coastal Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3216	The proposals are then put to the vote. 41, 42, 43 and 45, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 41 sounds: «The total income of the local government sector shall be between 8 and 8,5 billion. EUR for 2003. ‘... Proposal No. 42 sounds: «The growth of the free income of the local government sector shall be 6,75 billion. expenditure for 2003.’;» Proposal No. 43 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 6 June 1975 on property taxes to the municipalities, which means that property taxes can be levied equally for the entire municipality and which allow for faster changes in the level of property taxes than the current system.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The measure empowers the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to allocate 3810 million. EUR for 2003. The funds are proposed over the top. 571 Framework grants to municipalities and cap. 572 Framework grants to county municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3248	The proposals are then put to the vote. 23, 27, 28, 29, 34 and 39, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that increased powers are transferred to the local self-government in matters relating to planning and land matters.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the State grant rate for the construction of nursing homes by 300000 kroner per year. place in 2004.’;» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to put in place a top-level government funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users. The scheme means that the State will cover all annual expenditure of more than SEK 600 000 per year. user.’» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to order the State to ensure and guarantee, at all times, full State financing of any new task that the State requires the municipalities to perform.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a system in which municipalities are granted free taxation rights’. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case on the operation and investment situation in Norwegian schools, at the latest, in connection with the submission of the municipal economic proposal for 2004.’» The coastal party has announced that they want to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3291	The proposals are then put to the vote. 24, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32, 33, 36, 37 and 38, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up today’s framework financing system and to replace it with a new system of direct State-subsidy financing of basic welfare goods such as health/social services, care and education.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up proposals for legislation that obliges municipalities to compete in the operation of the various municipal services.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the compensation scheme for VAT to counties and municipalities general as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to include the North Norway grant in the general population grant as long as the current income system is in force.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to include the regional grant in the general population grant as long as the current income system is in force.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to include the basic grant to the municipality in the general population grant as long as the current income system is in force.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for alternative funding models for schools and institutions in the care of the elderly, where the responsibilities of municipalities are replaced by a criterion-based state grant to each school/institution.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a selection with a mandate to propose concrete mergers of municipalities in Norway and at the same time to describe different strategies and instruments for such a process. The committee’s work and decision-making shall form the basis for a broad public debate on today’s municipal structure, which is intended to result in a more appropriate and timely municipal breakdown, based on voluntary activity.’» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a mechanism to offer partial State debt cancellation to municipalities that choose to join voluntarily.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote its own case on the establishment and financing of housing for care and rehabilitation abroad, at the latest in the context of the submission of the municipal economic proposition for 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3354	Proposal No. 35 have been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as follows: «It is recommended to the Government to return part of the company tax to the municipalities from 2003 onwards.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 11–22, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3435	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The total income of the local government sector shall be 3.5 to 4 billion. expenditure for 2003.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The growth of the free income of the local government sector shall be EUR 1,75 billion. expenditure for 2003.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3455	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a state top funding for resource-intensive users. The Government is asked to submit proposals in the 2003 budget.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3475	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The budget deficit asks the Government to come back in 2003 with a proposal on how to resolve increases in the average pension cost.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a permanent mechanism for the smoothing of the fluctuations in the pension contributions of the local government sector in time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3497	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to close the action plan for the care of the elderly on the basis of applications received from municipalities by the deadline of 1 October 2001. The commitment framework for the action plan will be extended by 3000 sick places in addition to the Government’s proposals. The start-up grant for 3000 of the additional units will first be paid from 2004.’;» The coastal party has notified that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3514	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make final proposals for a top-level financing scheme for particularly resource-intensive users in the 2004 Municipal Proposition.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3529	Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5 the president will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3603	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3616	President! Can I ask that we take this vote again? I think there are some people who have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3623	Who's anybody? Is it obvious that someone has misunderstood the wetting scheme? The President then proposes that we resume voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3642	There is an alternative proposal, No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to set aside 30 million. SEK for the removal of young people with disabilities living in old-age and sick homes within an unchanged overall framework of discretion.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3675	Here the President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3696	There is an alternative proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the county councils of Østfold and Nord-Trøndelag to pay a total of 30 million. crowns within the discretionary framework as compensation for having used revenues from power to finance the hospital sector.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3719	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3739	There is an alternative proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In 2003, the Government asks the cities of Fredrikstad, Tromsø and Drammen to provide a total of 17 million urban grants. kronor and benefits as follows:Fredrikstad: 6,3 million. Dromsø: 5.6 million. krona.Dram: 5.1 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3786	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3802	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals were put forward, following proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, is drawn. It's proposal No 1 by Reidar Sandal, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 3, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party, no. 4-11, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 12, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party With regard to the proposal from the Socialist Left, the author has asked for a transfer proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out a major review of the environmental and nature protection legislation in order to strengthen national policy and responsibility for the environment and nature.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There shall be a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-11, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The county elections are not held in 2003, the county councils are closed for more than two years.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start work on the winding-up of the county as a self-government level.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for alternative funding from the secondary schools and institutions of social care, based on a single-cost financing.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the mandate of the Plan Law Committee so that a new part of the Planning and Building Act is based on the termination of the County Planning Act.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to agree to attempts by municipalities to assume responsibility for secondary schools whose individual municipalities wish to do so.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make practical efforts to entrust the county municipality’s tasks to the municipalities and to terminate the county municipality if a majority of the population and municipalities in a state wish to participate in such an experiment.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop proposals in which individual municipalities and inter-municipal cooperation bodies are to take over the role of regional development manager, and thus the instruments assigned to the county council in relation to regional economic development.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate trials where municipalities which it wishes can assume responsibility for public transport and related funds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3877	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that tests on the unit state are not carried out.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3892	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to undertake major state trials, which are delegated to the general authority over the use of allocated instruments and strategic choices within regional and strategic development, i.e. in industrial policy, district policy, transport, competence development, overall land policy, cultural and labour market policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3955	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e3973	During the debate, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the practice of regional transport aid and to assess whether it should be State aid.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4002	During the debate, Peter Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:133 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4027	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 5 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary legislative proposals so that the national broker can ask an organisation to send the mediation proposal to a vote and that there should be a legal obligation to peace during the voting period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4045	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 5 June 2002: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make the necessary legislative proposals so that the individual business club can accept or oppose, by way of a vote, a job which is certainly central’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4063	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 5 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and assess in more detail whether the current termination scheme as a condition for the imposition of strike/lockout should be amended to a system of conflict alerts according to Swedish pattern.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4081	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 5 June 2002: ‘The Government is asking for the UN to start work on the revision and renewal of the Refugee Convention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4099	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2002: ‘The ruling asks the Government to clarify the practice of settlement by means of regulations clarifying what can be considered reasonable’. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4120	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure user involvement in Aetat.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4136	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that conditions are laid down for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between a legal person and the local authority that, upon termination of the cooperation agreement, the proportion or ownership section concerned may no longer be retained for any other purpose by the legal person concerned.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4152	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider proposals for strengthening cooperation arrangements between housing law laws, communities, municipalities and other actors in order to ensure good living conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4168	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the law on working time on ships should not apply to those seafarers who are not taxed under the mariner’s deduction scheme, but instead are covered by the labour environment law.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4185	The Party of Government is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4192	The President proposes that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4205	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6 and 7, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 8, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 8, from the Centre Party to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner706Directorate of Social Affairs and Health1Operating expenditure, increased by 500 000from NOK 195 330000 to NOK 195 830 000730Statistical health care70Integrated hospital financing, estimated allocation, increased by 624 956 000from NOK 14 575 000 to NOK 15 199 956 00071Reflection of outpatient hospital activities, etc. the estimate, increased by 140 000 000 from NOK 3 456 000 to NOK 3 596 000 000 to NOK 732 Regional health establishments70The contribution to health establishments can be transferred, increased by 578 700 000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 598 700 00071The contribution to health east of the Rhine may be transferred, increased by 479 140 000 from NOK 10 316 504 000 to NOK 10 795 644 00072The contribution to health south of the Rhine may be transferred, increased by 335 648 000 from NOK 6 349 251000 to NOK 6 684 899 00073The contribution to health west of the Rhine may be transferred, increased by 274 173 000 from NOK 4 574 736 000 to NOK 4 848 909 00074The contribution to health centre of Norway RHF may be transferred, increased by SEK 191 712 000 from NOK 3 3 392 361000 to NOK 3 584 073 00075The contribution to health north of the Rhine may be transferred, increased by 500 000 from NOK 548 90 9 000.000 to NOK 37 000. [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4470	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeObjective:Crones732Regional health companies71Government Health East RHF, may be transferred, increased, increased by 820 049 000from DKK 10 316 504 000to kr 11 136 553 00072Government Health South RHF, may be transferred, increased by 504 198 000from kr 6 349 251000to kr 6 853 449 00073Government Health West RHF, may be transferred, increased by 488 618 000from kr 4 574 736 000from kr 5 063 354 00074Government Health Middle-Norway RHF, may be transferred, increased by 431 595 000from kr 3 3 3 3 3 392 361000 to kr 3 823 956 00075Additional health North RHF, may be transferred, increased by 611 152 000from NOK 3 136 498 000 to kr 3 747 650 000275050 Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to remove the excess by sterilisation with effect from 1 July 2002.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4623	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3, 4, and 5, from the Party of Advancement: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner73071Reflection outpatient hospital services, etc. the estimate is increased by 126 513 000 from NOK 3 456 000 to NOK 3 582 513 000 to NOK 73270Appropriations for health enterprises may be transferred, increased by 320 000 000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 340 000 to NOK 275077Sickness transport, increased by NOK 1 800 000 from NOK 1 467 000 to NOK 1 468 800 000275170Appropriations, increased by 63 000 000 from NOK 7 140 000 to NOK 7 203 000 » Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the central hospitals that have currently established neonatal wards for premature birth can continue to maintain their activities at the current level.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision does not require the Government to demand abstinence for involuntary childlessness treatment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all those who have incurred the cost of artificial fertilisation in 2002 are fully reimbursed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e4759	Proposal No. In the course of the debate, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has turned into a motion for a resolution. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the Heart Centre receives a loan of 100 million. crowns for the restoration of the Revmatism Hospital and the acquisition of medical and technical equipment from the given loan framework to health care establishments for the re-establishment of operations at the Revmatism Hospital.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5198	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 18 June 2002: ‘The amount requested by the Government is based on a 95 per cent refund for Remicade from the current indicative selling price from 1 October 2002 onwards of the year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5216	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 June 2002: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that the hospital's expenditure on medicinal products under new § 5-15 of the People's Security Act is covered.» The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Centre are behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5236	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2 by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Sigbjørn Molvik, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 4, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Center Party. Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all of the 9 300 approved applications remaining after the deadline for application in October 2001 receive funding commitments in line with the action plan’s arrangements. The Government must present in the 2003 State Budget a full financing plan for such an extension of the framework of the Action Plan.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5264	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government requests the Government to increase its funding beyond the 2000s proposed by the Government in St. anmelding. [[2001-2002]] No 31
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5279	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose its own budgetary framework for the establishment of nursing/hospital places abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5294	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government specifically requests the following follow-up of the municipalities with low coverage of places with good luck care and care for the elderly, and to facilitate further investment in these municipalities by up to 3000 units, with implementation from 2004 to the end of 2007.These 3000 units are allocated to 70 per cent of nursing homes and 30 per cent of nursing homes with areas for basic staff.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5334	During the debate, two proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assign the Social and Health Directorate Approval Authority to crew plans at the country’s nursing home, so as to ensure a professionally sound level of personnel independent of residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5358	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make a thorough calculation and impact assessment of what a satisfactory manning standardisation and the necessary enhancement of competence in the care sector in general, and for the nursing homes in particular, will mean in increasing costs for municipalities. The figures and proposals on how to cover this financially are presented in the context of the announced message on the care of the elderly and the care services in the spring of 2003.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5396	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2002: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the guidelines for the activities of Ecocrime in order to facilitate the detection of social security abuse.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5413	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. 4, There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget for 2002 will be set at SEK 54 780 as of 1 May 2002. Chapter.Objectives:Crons660Krigspension70Bidages, military, increased by 12000000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 2900000071Bidages, civilians, increased by 30000000from kr 68000000from kr 68000000from kr 71000000from kr 71000000from seafarer's pension70Bids, increased by 8000000from kr 178 600 000from kr 186 600 000from kr 187 000from pension70 000from kr 870000from kr 870000from kr 187 000from kr 580000from kr 59000000from kr 58000000from seafarer's pension, increased by 580000 from kr 13 580000 from kr 13 500 000 to kr 13 772 500 000 from pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner' pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner's pensioner's pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner's pensioner's pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pension' pensioner's pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pensioner' pension' pension' pension' pension' pension' pension' pension' pension' pension'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e5825	The President will come back to proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget for 2002 is hereby amended as follows: Chapter.Objectives:Crons660billion2290000budget from 669 000 000budgets to 678 000budgets from 669 000budgets from 668 000budgets from 668 000budgets from 668 000budgets from 712 000 000budgets from 277 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 299 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 669 000budgets from 669 000budgets from 669 000budgets from 298 000budgets from 686 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 297 000budgets from 227 000budgets from 297 000budgets 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 296 000 from 296 000budgets from 296 000 from 296 000 from 296 000 from 296 000budgets from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 296 000 from 2 from 296 000 from 296 000budgets from 2 from 629 000 from 629 to 669 000 from 296 000budgets from 629 to 629 to 669 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 2 from 296 000budgets from 296 000budgets from 669 from 669 to 669 to 669 to 669 to 669 to 669 to 629 to 669 from 2 from 669ts from 669 from 669en from 2 0 from 2 0 from 2 from 2 from 669 30 309 to 669ts from 2 from 2 0 from 2 0 from 2 from 2 7 0 from 2 from 2 0 from 2 0 from 2 from 2 0 from 2 7
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e6221	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The budget for 2002 is hereby amended as follows: Chapter.Objectives:Crones660Contributions, civil, increased by 36000000from €68000000from €68000000from €71000000from €27000000from €29000000from €29000000from €38000000from €68000000from €68000000from €68000000from €719000000from €69000000from €26000000from €29000000from €138000000from €188,000from €188,000from €13380000from €13820000from €13820000from €13820000from €13424000000from €71000000from €224000000from €329000000from €329000000from €29000000from €29000000from €29000000from €29000000from €29000000from €29000000from €29000000from €29000000from €209000000from €209000000from €29000000from €212000000from €212000000from €227000000from €227000000from €297000000from €29000000from €29000000from €227000000from €289000000from €289000000from €227000000from €227000000 from €212000000from €29292929292929292929000000 from €2270,000 from €2240,000 from €2240,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €2290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €29830 to €29.50 to €29930 to €2929930 to €290,000 from €29 billion from €2993030303030930930930303030 to €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 to €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 billion from €29 spent spent spent spent spent spent spent Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The downturn asks the Government to submit by the end of 2002 an escalation plan to result in a full-earned pension of 2/3 of previous employee income in 2007.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e6616	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation requests the Government to come back with a plan for an increase in the minimum pension income over a period of five years. This plan must be submitted in such a way that the size can adopt it in good time before the social security settlement in 2003.’» The Progress Party wishes to support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e6633	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The guidelines for social security arrangements are amended to read as follows:The objective of the regulation shall be to provide pensioners with income trends at least in line with developments in working life and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the income policy framework or not.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e6650	I voted in favour, I should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e6657	Then the correct numbers are 63 votes against the proposal and 35 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7391	During the debate Hans R. Kjæstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the representative Odd Holten. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority agrees that the airports of Fenres, Narvik and Vardø are not served by tendering procedures as from 1 April 2003. The operation of Fernere airport is maintained and the infrastructure at Vardø airport is maintained in accordance with the guidelines set out in St.prp. [[2001-2002]] No 61
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7461	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In addition, the government is asked to present a new case in which the E6 in Østfold, including the new Svinesundbro, is completed in 2006 without the establishment of toll entries. At the same time, the Government is requested to propose the necessary appropriations for the State budget. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7547	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7563	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is invited to propose a plan of progress and additional funding, other than the current transport budgets, for the deployment of E6/E18 from Svinesund/Ørje to Oslo with completion by 2007 and E18 from Winterbro via Oslo to Kristiansand as Class A motorway with completion by 2010.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7588	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size gives the Government the power to surrender 3,6 billion. crowns granted as a loan to Oslo Airport AS, Gardermoen.» Alternatively, there will be a vote between the proposal and that of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7613	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals and to take the necessary decisions entailing:1. Authorised taxi companies are granted the right to assess the driver’s ability to hold taxi tickets/driving tickets, and to ask the police and county council to withdraw them from their conduct, misconduct, unlawful acts and complaints by the public.2. The driving licence is issued only for five years at a time, on which a reassessment of the driver’s suitability is made.3. A system is sought in cooperation with approved taxi companies, for examination and letter to obtain taxi licenses, in order to strengthen the requirements for drivers’ suitability.4. Persons convicted of moral and serious violent crimes or who abuse their position as taxi driver for other criminal activities lose the right to hold taxi tickets/driving passes.’ Alternatively, there will be a vote between the proposal and that of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7651	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 11 June 2002: «Additional adjustment costs etc. connected to the dot load system is reduced by 20-30 pst.» The Progress Party has indicated its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7671	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 11 June 2002: ‘It is estimated that 5 million will be allowed since 2003. more for police control on the most unclosed road sections.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7689	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 June 2002: ‘Safe Trafikk will increase its promise by 2 million from 2003. crowns for measures to improve the safety of schoolchildren.» The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7710	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tor-Arne Ström, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the Storting with an evaluation of bids in the ferry business in connection with each rollover of the national transport plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7725	President! To a previous vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7732	Per Sandberg gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7737	Sorry, I do not want to withdraw the meeting any longer than necessary. However, the Progress Party should have voted in favour of V during the vote on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I don't think it was done, so if it's possible to get that vote back, the Progress Party will appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7742	The President must first ask whether the Storting can accept this vote again. For its part, the President has nothing against it. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7753	The President understands why it's about taking that vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20-2.ana.ud2120e7774	There is no record.
