ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e75	The government's draft budget and the budget adopted this evening mean increasing efforts in the key welfare areas. This applies to children and families and to the elderly, sick and poor. The budget is tight and well adapted to the economic situation. In the autumn, unemployment has increased somewhat. The increase was particularly concentrated on services sectors, especially the IT industry, in central Eastern Europe. Recently, there has also been an increase in industrial unemployment in several parts of the country. The interest rate in Norway is, as is well known, clearly higher than that in the international context and has increased sharply. This has hit businesses hard. The combination of high wage and salary increases over several years and a strong strengthening of the krone price underlines the importance of a tight budget. The fight against unemployment is a major concern of the Cooperative Government. Therefore, through income policy cooperation, the Government has put in place measures to help make next year’s wage settlement more adapted to our competitors. Therefore, the Government is also committed to improving the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. The phasing-out of the investment levy from 1 October this year was an over-ripe reform. It will simplify the everyday life of businesses and governments. The loss of tax revenue from the investment tax comes mainly in 2003. The same applies to the first increase in depreciation rates and removal of the passenger charge. Thus, in the 2003 budget, we are funding important reliefs adopted for 2002. Within a tight budget, new measures are also being taken to strengthen business. As from 2003, the research and development tax credit scheme will apply to all enterprises. In addition, a number of customs duties are reduced. In addition, the budget agreement increases the depreciation rate on machines from 15 to 20 p.m., as the industry itself has placed great emphasis on. However, the main contribution to strengthening business is that we are stuck with a tight budget. The central thing now is that the pressure on a high interest rate and a strong dollar can be dampened. If the social partners can at the same time contribute to reducing wage growth, much will be done to secure jobs in industries that are also exposed to international competition. A well-functioning income policy cooperation is important in order to achieve low unemployment and a healthy and high-growth business. The implementation of individual income statements is the responsibility of the parties, but it is important that we have a common understanding of the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. High wage growth and strong prices make it difficult for industry and the rest of the competitive sector. The government has made contributions through a tight budget and with relief for the companies. The social partners must ensure that wage growth is reduced so that interest rates can fall again and the strengthening of the exchange rate can be reversed. In order to strengthen contact with the social partners, the Government has set up a separate dialogue forum under the direction of the Minister of Labour and Administration. The aim is to arrive at a common understanding of the challenges ahead of next year's wage settlement. In addition, the Government has set up an expert committee to assess in particular the challenges for the competitive sector. The budget debate in the autumn should provide a basis for certain reflections. As soon as the Government has presented its draft budget, a number of stakeholder organisations stand out and express dissatisfaction with the appropriations in their field. And to be heard, language is getting stronger and stronger. The opposition prepares and forwards the complaints. In this way, a full-black picture is produced, with barely a single eye on the many budget areas where efforts are actually being increased, for the benefit of many people in Norway next year. Now this has been the case under different governments, but the trend is increasing. Someone might take this as a complaint from a sitting prime minister, but it's actually more serious than that: I think it's a problem for the information and the social debate when the presentations become so one-sided. Former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland has also pointed out something of the same. I also believe that the excessive turbulence surrounding the budget weakens the willingness to find solutions at an earlier stage. In this way, we are getting the situation that the first budget negotiations are not going to be real enough, and that the solution is going to be overtime. I believe that we on both the government side and the parties on the Stortinget should discuss this situation in view of recent years. Some have raised concerns about changes in the budgetary system in which the parties will ultimately be forced to vote on one of the two budgetary options to ensure a clarification. But this would be a bit of a defeat and contrary to what has been the main idea of the Storting, that no one should be forced to vote for anything you are against. We should therefore continue to try if it is not possible to improve budgetary procedures without such intervention. It requires some of us all. The draft budget of the Cooperative Government had a profile that was clear and balanced between the three governmental parties: tax relief, in particular for businesses to strengthen their competitiveness and employment-enhancing family policy through more and cheaper childcare facilities and continued cash support for poverty both at home and abroad, by a sharp increase in aid to the poorest and a separate action plan for the poor in Norway, with particular attention to the psychiatry and the care of cancer, extending the exceptional elderly reform to a clear commitment to public transport The willingness of the co-operation government to discuss budgetary solutions with different parties shows that the main thing is not who you work with, but what you work with. The Workers' Party took itself out of influence if it was unwilling to meet the government parties enough. Instead, the Workers' Party proposes to destroy the freedom of choice of young children's parents by halving the cash support, and the Party proposes taxes on enterprises so high that jobs can be jeopardized. Finally, it was the Progress Party that showed the greatest willingness to compromise within the same responsible framework as the Government proposed. We're happy about that. But that doesn't mean, of course, that the government parties and the Advance Party are thus a fixed coalition. It has also underlined Carl I. Hagen by stating immediately that the Progress Party shall be what he called ‘a hardcore opposition party’. The central government also made two budgetary settlements with the subsidiary agreement of the Progress Party, without which we were a fixed coalition. And the content of the agreement with the Progress Party is actually characterized by good things also for the center parties: one billion extra to the municipalities, 1.5 billion extra to businesses and employment, over 600 million. kr extra to various health measures and reduced curtailment of retirement pensions. And since I belong to the party I now do: this is actually also a good Christian People's Party profile. The co-operation administration has once again managed to get a budget through the Storting with the maintenance of the main lines of our original proposal. We therefore have a good basis for further governance of economic policy. And we're still in the different cases that are gradually coming, focused on constructive cooperation with the parties in Stortinget that will meet us. The political situation requires willingness and ability to cooperate, and that someone takes responsibility. That's the right of the people to expect of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e133	The Prime Minister was concerned about what he called excessive turbulence in the context of the budget negotiations in Stortinget, and that unnecessary uncertainty and problems related to the adoption of a budget were created. I agree with the Prime Minister that there is reason to be concerned about the way the budget is handled in Stortinget. And I strongly believe that it is not about changes to the budgetary regulation, but it is about political realities, namely that we have had a situation where it is really not fully understood what kind of majority is behind the government. It creates unnecessary uncertainty, it creates unforeseeableness, it causes us to get decisions that go in different directions. There is an argument for greater clarity and greater commitment between parties, in order to contribute precisely to less excessive turbulence in budgetary negotiations. And there's a Christian People's Party that has made a choice. The problem is that the government parties do not fully recognise that choice and that the Progress Party does not fully agree with this choice. But I believe that the budget negotiations this autumn confirm and reinforce the elections you made last autumn, namely that the Christian People's Party formed a government together with the Right, and that you chose to have the Advance Party as a parliamentary basis. I respect that choice, but I think it would be better if you had got to a center-left collaboration. At that time it would have been possible to do more for the municipalities, for the care of the elderly and for the schools in the municipalities. It would have been possible to say no to a large number of the social cuts that are now adopted. And it would have been possible to get a more responsible budget. In fact, the budget line of the Workers' Party is a stronger contribution to reducing interest rates than that of the Government. We spend less oil money. So I think it would have been better to cooperate with the centre-left than to rely on the Progress Party. It contributes to unnecessary turbulence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e142	The Christian People's Party acknowledges the choice we made after there was no basis for a central government in the elections last autumn. Now that we hear other government options being launched by day, we're actually very well located. Carl I. Hagen will obviously have a government of the Advancement Party and the Right and has written off the Christian People's Party – the latter is to a great extent fine, because we have never intended to be in government with the Advancement Party. So he wants something out there on the right. The working party will obviously have something in common with SV and the Centre Party, even if they will not act together. Then I have to say that a cooperative government, which is really in the middle, between these alternatives out on the right and out on the left, fits the Christian People's Party well. Now I hope it's not perceived as rolling, as I realized, when one points out some facts about what Stoltenberg obviously wants. We strongly disagree on what the Workers' Party has called the bottom line of economic policy, the rule of action and monetary policy, as Mr Stoltenberg himself proposed. We disagree on security policy and NATO. So I have to say that then I am much better in the Co-operation Administration. And if the Workers' Party was sincerely concerned with cooperation with the Christian People's Party, why are they once again trying to destroy the freedom of choice of young children's parents by proposing to halve the cash support? Why do they propose a lot of taxes for small and medium-sized enterprises and their owners when the fight against unemployment must now be a major issue? At least it is for the Cooperation Government. So the alternatives don't work provocatively. I agree with Stoltenberg in one thing, that there was an unnecessary amount of black paint earlier this fall. ‘To weep over’, ‘nearly shocking’, ‘heart eight’ were some of the opinions on the draft budget. I think to the extent that it is a success that they have not appeared again in the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e149	The Prime Minister said that he felt that the early budgetary negotiations did not appear to be «real». It's a provocation to the Progress Party. It's actually a sort of confirmation of what we thought, and what we got the feeling, that the first round of the Advancement Party was for the sake of sight, which was then done to use it as an excuse to do what you wanted from the beginning of some, namely to go to the Workers' Party and negotiate. When it didn't work out, you came back to us most graciously – not at all. So we feel that this is a signal that if the situation is going to be the same next year, we should probably say no and say: Talk to the Workers' Party first, because it's the ones you prefer. In particular, this applies when we read in the newspapers about bigoting representatives from the Christian People's Party who call workers' party rapporteurs to get pressure on the Workers' Party while negotiating with the Progress Party. That's not a very reasonable way to do it. So we note those words from the Prime Minister, because we did not feel that the first negotiations with us were real, but it was not due to the Progress Party. Then I want to ask the Prime Minister if this government, as its long-term policy, has a partial reduction and partial closure of our maritime sector. The EU has now said that net wages for seafarers and better tax rules for shipping companies in EU countries are what they are doing as an offensive effort to build a maritime industry in the EU. As far as I am aware, the Prime Minister and the Government have said that when the EU is now also going to reintroduce the yard support, we will do the same in Norway. If it is true that the Government intends to reintroduce the yard aid if the EU does so, why does the Government not also follow the EU in terms of the framework conditions for the maritime industry by copying the EU rules on the taxation of shipping companies and the permanent net pay regime for all seafarers in international shipping who are exposed to competition, as proposed by the Progress Party in the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e156	What I said at that point the representative Hagen did not quote quite correctly was that the negotiations at an early stage were not «real enough». It was only when one was in overtime, and the pressure was great on everyone that one came to the finish. I haven't tried to blame that question at all, I've just said in my post that it seems to me that it's a situation that both on the government side and in the Stortinge can think through, how we're going to get a more normal and previous budget clearance in recent years. It shouldn't be a provocation to anyone. The government seriously entered into all the budgetary negotiations we had, and as far as I remember, we actually spent more time on the first round of the Advance Party than we did on the first round of the Workers' Party. As far as the maritime industries are concerned, of course, the Government has no goal of winding them up — on the contrary. Norway has such proud traditions in this area and has such good conditions for operating maritime industries that it is our wish that they continue to operate under conditions of competition which are as similar as those with which we compete. Now there are no common rules in the EU in this area. The EU has opened up the reintroduction of yard support and other mechanisms in this area, but the EU has not adopted a common policy across all EU countries. We therefore found it right in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party to change the arrangement somewhat in these areas. We will follow what is happening in EU countries, not in the EU, carefully also in the future, so that the maritime industries will be competitive. However, it must not be an objective that a person on death and life should be supported by industry or industry in Norway. Norwegian business should primarily be competitive through the general framework conditions that we provide to our businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e163	It's amazing how Carl I. Hagen's old tricks work every time. So I don't know how many times I've been sitting in this big room and he's come up sadly as a sloppy friar and asking why they weren't good enough for both the one and the other in the first, second, third and fourth rounds, and the Prime Minister is up and assures that then, the Progress Party is good enough. And then it ends again in perfect harmony. That trick is so old that I sincerely hope that Carl I. Hagen has enough imagination to find another time. Because now we're close to what's the big problem of the government parties. It's just that the Christian People's Party is quite uncomfortable with being so glued up to the right side, sitting in a government that has a majority of the Right, and having to depend on the Progress Party. The Prime Minister is trying to assure us of something else, but everyone can see that there are not exactly some of the light fountains that are beaming at us when the Prime Minister is going to defend this. I have now gone through the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, and the eye-catching is not the number of dollars and cents. On the contrary, it's rather small-minded – eye-catching little songs compared to what the Progress Party always requires on TV. Nor is it the case that according to the kroner and the ear it is supposed to say that this is a limitless right-hand project. But in fact, there are 20 points where the government is going to come back to the Progress Party with small and large – which is in the spring, which is in the context of the revised national budget, while the rest of it is subscriptions over the entire ageing period. Is it not simply that this Government has committed itself to a Carl I. Hagen and a progress party who loves to be neglected once more, just to get something out near a declaration of love, but to a political project that is a much clearer Right-Project than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e170	In the case of old tricks, the representative Kristin Halvorsen does not stand back. She uses her old, namely, to be an commentator to other parties' policies and almost never talk about her own party. That's a little bit of an old trick! What it's like in other games, you might want to let them express themselves. I guess now the light fountains are reserved for others, not the prime minister. With great boldness, I will defend the profile of this budget: the first government to put forward a plan to combat poverty in Norway, the strongest increase in efforts in psychiatry ever, and otherwise a strong health budget family policy that safeguards freedom of choice, such as the SV and the Workers' Party, are committed to destroying policies to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses and to ensuring the most secure jobs What came out of the agreement with the Progress Party also goes in the same direction: further strengthening of business, further strengthening of health measures, improvement of retirement couples and 1 billion more to municipalities. This is a profile that actually, when we get the ear's sound to get it presented, is well received by many. Now Kristin Halvorsen also says things that are a little funny. On the one hand, it is only a small matter that the Progress Party has achieved, and on the other hand, it is so terrible for the Christian People's Party to have concluded a budgetary agreement with the precisely Progress Party. We're more concerned with the content. When it comes to the question of firm adherence and declarations of love, there are people who think it is very funny to comment on it. We have a firm follow-up with those we have promised to follow closely, but as we know, the Christian People's Party is actually opposed to forcibleness, since some will obviously force us into something we have not known about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e198	Otherwise, the President would say that this with the light fountains is all the way up to the individual. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e201	I'll leave it up to the Christian People's Party itself to decide how comfortable they are to be the fountains of light, or if they might wish they were. The Prime Minister said in his speech that the budget debate of the autumn provides a basis for reflections on the black paints the opposition and various organisations have been using throughout the harvest. It is possible, but I have to say that I have problems seeing it as a black paint when we now receive daily messages about municipalities that have to cut off their offers. There are schools that are being laid down, teaching positions that are being removed, and classes that are being filled up to the maximum number of students. I stand here with the councillor's draft budget for the Wefsn municipality – which is just one of many examples – where proposals have been made to lay down a nursing home for elderly psychiatry to save 3.1 million. SEK, $3.5 million for the seriously ill and dying department. SEK, bringing together and filling up students in the 9th class saves 1 million. DKK and aggregation and completion of primary school classes saves NOK 360 000. Together, Wefsn municipality will save 15 million. kr on next year's budget. This can't be seen as anything but dramatic. So this is the situation around the vast majority of municipalities. And it's not because you built town halls and cultural houses, as Carl I. Hagen said earlier in the debate, it's because you don't have the economy for the necessary measures. In addition, we see that the health sector and psychiatry are being cut and that a significant number of jobs are being cut within health businesses. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Is this the Prime Minister concerned? Or is it a desired policy, as the Minister of Finance said earlier today, when he said that the pressure in the labour market is high, and that therefore cuts in the public sector are necessary. Is that a wild policy on the part of the Government? And then I hope that for once I will not get the answer from the Prime Minister that former Minister of the Municipality of Enoksen also had to cut the municipal economy. That's actually not the case. The government itself has documented that in the municipal proposition. Moreover, I can't imagine that the Prime Minister sees himself worthy of creating the impression that all the governments he is running are cutting into the community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e217	No, but there was something when Enoch said that there might have been something in this black paint, because I remember very well that when Odd Roger Enoxsen and I sat together in government, a lot of sighs came from him over the black paint of the opposition. So there he's been in the same boat a relatively short time ago. I hope he remembers and can confirm that. Of course, when it comes to the local economy, I'm worried. I have traveled around the municipality of Norway so much that I know that many municipalities are really struggling to get the budget together, and that they have to deal with measures that are not desirable. But this has built up over several years, under different governments. Of course, nothing has come in the harvest. And it also recognizes the local politicians when we go in and discuss this. I therefore believe that there is still a need for further enhanced dialogue between the State and the local government sector on what we are doing to bring about a better balance between the increase in income for the municipalities – because they have had it well – and, on the other hand, the increase in expenditure and the increase in expenditure. It is this imbalance that has built up under various municipal ministers and different governments, which gives cause for concern. The local economy is, as you know, a very large part of the total economy of our society. That's also why we've had to hold it back, because everyone knows that the pressure is too high, no matter what reason it comes, it will also affect the municipalities, the business community and the private economy in terms of increasing interest rates. 1 pst. interest rate increase means 800 million. I do not want, as Prime Minister, to take responsibility for a policy in which we invite this. Perhaps the Central Party should also think a little more about this with its clearly more expansive draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e226	The Prime Minister is a little sore that the budget he presented is being met with strong criticism. The strongest words were used by the Progress Party, which is what the party the Prime Minister is making with, and that is probably a bigger problem for the Progress Party than for the Government Parties. But it's very dangerous to reject all the criticisms of the budget by just labeling it as a black paint. We also experienced that last autumn, and we experienced it in the spring, many of us. The Labour Party warned against the dangers of increasing unemployment and industrial problems. Then many speakers told the government that we were exaggerating, that we were black-painting. Now we see that unemployment is increasing, that industry is struggling, and it just shows that it's a little dangerous to dismiss criticism by calling it black paint. Now we have a budget that expects up to 100,000 unemployed over the next year. The answer is to cut the daily allowance of the unemployed quite dramatically. Some of them are the most difficult in Norway from the past. They get even smaller. Some of the same is true of the municipalities. Of course, there are many reasons for the problems they have, and of course it is important that we organize the municipalities better than today. But that does not mean that the government can waive the responsibility for providing one of the toughest municipal schemes in several years. If the government had opted differently, that is to say that there is no need for $11.3 billion in lower taxes in 2003 than in 2002, but that it is perhaps worth DKK 7–8 billion, there would have been money to give more to school and to care for the elderly in the municipalities. It's not just the Working Party that says it. It is not least the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party who say. It's not true that the municipalities actually get one billion more, because what happened after the budget was presented is that the revenues of the municipalities were adjusted by one billion kroner, and that's what is now being compensated. It's going to be a very tight community structure, and it's going to go out of school and care for the elderly in many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e235	As I said in my post, this has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's possible wound. It represents a more serious problem than that, namely, what does such a one-sided criticism mean that I think it tended to, so that it became black paint? What does that mean for information to society? What does that mean for the democratic debate? What does it mean for the will to find budget solutions here in the Great Britain in the normal time? I had hoped that the opposition leader would have been a little more open to a debate about it, but it doesn't seem like he is. I have also not said that all the criticisms of the budget are black paint, but the sum of it I believe was. To take the two points Stoltenberg now mentioned, and first unemployment. I said that a main thing for this government is to combat unemployment. That's why we have dared to take some unpopular action and provide a tight budget. Because there is something I have heard when I have visited the company after the company, it is: Rent a tight budget to dampen the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. It's been the main message from the business community. We have now delivered that. In that light, you also have to see the question of tax relief. What is the Workers' Party doing in its alternative budget? They impose taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises and their owners. It's not a budget to combat unemployment. On the contrary, there is a scheme that can increase it, because jobs in these companies are at risk. This is done through sharing model, property taxes that are important for private owners and businesses, share taxes, etc. So I actually don't think the arrangements of the Workers' Party are adapted to the economic situation, are adapted to the main task – to combat unemployment. In the case of the local economy, I have basically responded to that in the previous reply. I refer to it and am prepared to come back to it in the revised national budget, as we have agreed with the Progress Party, according to the development of the tax revenue in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e246	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e249	When the budget was presented, Carl I. Hagen said, ‘On behalf of the Norwegian people, I am disappointed.’ When the budget was presented, the Progress Party announced a fight against the government reintroducing a propensity on a blue recipe for the elderly and the disabled. Now they mean something else. As of 1 January, 625000 pensioners will have to pay the excess that they are releasing today. All the elderly and the disabled shall know that it is the Progress Party which is decided to reinstate the excess. When the budget was presented, John Alvheim said that the proposal to remove the tomb aid was ‘mild, immoral and makabert’. Today, Mr Alvheim will be voting in favour of this proposal. Everyone should know that it is the Progress Party that is being decided to remove the burial aid. When the budget was presented, Siv Jensen said that this budget provides less advice to people. Now it is the Progress Party that gives many people poorer advice. All families of children who receive letters from the social security office saying that the small child allowance has been removed in the child’s safety shall know that it is the Progress Party that decides that they are less likely to leave. Anyone who receives a letter from the municipality in mid-January stating that the prices of the school leisure system are becoming more expensive should know that it is the Progress Party that has decided that the State aid is halved. Those who are unemployed for an entire year will lose up to NOK 20 000 in the budget adopted today. All unemployed people should know that it is the Progress Party that decides to reduce their lives. From the new year, welfare services in municipalities are getting worse. School classes are dropped. The offer of many elderly people who have worn a long life is getting worse. All those affected by these cuts should know that it is the Progress Party that has adopted a budget that provides the municipalities with such a tight framework that such cuts must be made. The party of advances has long given the impression that they will strengthen the treatment in hospitals. Now they could have done it. They didn't. Anyone who has to wait for hospital treatment should know that this was something the Progress Party did not find important enough when the budget agreement was to be concluded. Yes, people have reason to be disappointed – about the government's budget proposal, yes, but not least about the Progress Party, which has given people reason to believe that they would secure the exemption from self-interest, would ensure the care of our elderly, would strengthen the hospitals and would help those who unfortunately become unemployed. Then it was just words. When it came to the problem, it was more important to reduce the levy on spirits than to strengthen older people’s care in municipalities. When it came to the problem, it was more important to reduce the levy on motorcycles than to remove the excess of necessary medicines for all elderly and disabled people. When it came to the problem, it was more important to reduce the fee on caravans than to keep the tomb stand. That is the choice of the Progress Party. The Labour Party has submitted an alternative budget of nearly DKK 7 billion in tax credits. This is a relief both for employees and for the business community. The Labour Party and the Government have agreed on the need for a relatively tight budget. The working party even has a tighter budget than the Government. Disagreement is primarily about how we should align ourselves within these frameworks. The government proposes to spend an additional DKK 4 billion on taxes. The Labour Party would rather use this money to avoid the social cuts proposed by the Government. We want to strengthen school provision and older people's provision in the municipalities. We will increase efforts to secure jobs and to create more and new jobs. The Labour Party refuses to send thousands of unemployed people to social assistance. We say no to changes that could lead to more people being cancelled instead of being released. We want a more offensive labour market policy, where more people are offered action. In the last six months, some 2 000 industrial jobs have been lost each month. There has to be a much more offensive policy for work and value creation than the government puts forward. For this reason, the Workers' Party proposes a power cap for work and business. The Minister of Economic Affairs' response to the person at risk of losing his job is that he is not so concerned about the jobs that are lost, only new ones are created. The main emphasis of our competitive business is in the districts. For this reason, what is now happening is hard for the districts — when Hjellegde wants to move to the Baltic Sea, when Sunnmørsfisk goes bankrupt, when Myre Fiskeindustrie goes bankrupt. So what's the answer for the settlement party? Yes, new cuts in district policy. One of the first Bondevik government did was cut drastically into the regional policy instruments. It triggered a storm. However, the Government chose to continue most of the cut in its draft budget for next year. In the equation, it's cut by another 100 million. kr. The appropriations for district measures will be less next year than the one that triggered the storm of protest last autumn. Yes, even the small increase that the government had made in order that it could once again be allocated to municipal food funds is gone. However, what has produced the strongest responses to the budget of the year is the local economy. Many municipalities are struggling very hard. However, the budget provided by the Government meant that municipalities would receive less free income next year than this year. Since then, the Government itself has provided new information to show that municipalities can receive lower tax revenues than foreseen both in 2002 and 2003. «For the municipal sector, the increase in the budget is not even enough to compensate for the failure of tax revenue»; says the head of the Communes' Central Federation, Halvdan Skard, and he continues: ‘That is why budgetary conciliation will also be a settlement on cuts in important welfare services such as care for the elderly, school and care and care’. Municipalities are now working on the budget for next year. «Worst budgetary work in my time»; says Christian People's Party Jan Paus in Fredrikstad. In Fredrikstad, most services are cut. This is the case in most municipalities. Christian People's Party's rapporteur, Johs Ramberg, in Rømskog, says: ‘They are suffocating the municipality as the democratic arena.’ ‘We are chosen to develop but are set to liquidate’, says his colleague Tore Johansen in Aremark. Is this what the Prime Minister calls black paint? The structure of the government means that it has to be cut in the supply of elderly people, in home care and in the offer of schoolchildren. But this is not political of course. It's a political choice. In the context of tight economic conditions, it is fully possible to use more for school and care for the elderly. But the government chose to give more to tax relief. The Workers' Party proposes to strengthen the local government's economy by NOK 3 billion in addition to the government's proposals. It would give Jan Paus and Fredrikstad alone nearly 22 million. kr more in free income than the government’s arrangements. Now, when we get newspaper headlines on which cuts must be carried out around the municipalities, we have to remember that it is the choice of the Government and the Advance Party, not the choice of the municipal politicians. Local politicians are required by the Right and the Advance Party to carry out cuts – large cuts. It's going to sting. Once again, we see why there was a budgetary solution with the Progress Party, and not with the Labour Party. The Labour Party cannot support such a policy. The budget is directed in a different direction from that of the Labour Party, in the direction of the Right and the Advance Party, with greater differences between people and between city and country. Where the Christian People's Party claims that they have been perpetrated, it is largely in areas where the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party would have agreed without a separate discussion. But it hasn't been Christian People's Party policy before to take away the unemployed, to remove the baby supplement in child welfare and to weaken the elderly in the municipalities. It would have been quite possible to choose differently: more well-being, and a little less tax haven. Then it may not be strange that Christian People's Party rapporteur Agnar Husebrätten in Marker municipality says: ‘Should we just sit in a government to support the Right, there is a limit to how much pain we can bear’. He knows there's an alternative!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e332	Before this year's government budget was presented, it was a demand from competitive business that the budget should be tight. This was in order to facilitate a fall in interest rates and interest rates that could secure jobs in many companies. A high interest rate out of control hits blindly, and it hits unsocially. Families and companies with large loans are the ones who have to pay the price if we politicians don't have the ability to keep public expenditure in check. The public offer also depends on the interest rate being kept down. Just 1 pst. increase will cost Municipality-Norway 800 million. kr. Of course, this will have consequences for the public offer. The goal of the Government was therefore to provide a tight budget that was adapted to the economic situation, but which could at the same time equip Norway against the challenges we have as a nation. The government has power over it. Within the tight framework, the Government has obtained a majority in favour of a forward-looking budget, including: quality reform in higher education and increased commitment to research will help to lay the foundations for future jobs. The government has also provided a good social budget. The co-operation government is the first government to make a targeted effort to combat poverty after the war. At the same time, the aid budget is being increased, and thus we are reaching out to the poorest in this world. We are pleased that the Progress Party supported, and supports, the budget as it now appears. This, of course, meant that the Progress Party also got an impact on some of its important issues. That's just right and right. A budgetary settlement means that you have to give and take. That is what negotiations are all about. The working party also had an opportunity to take responsibility. Of course, it also had to give the Workers' Party some winnings. But the Labour Party said no. They were far more busy playing than taking responsibility. It was more important for the Workers' Party to try to split the Cooperative Government than to seek constructive solutions. The leader of the Workers' Party, Stoltenberg, has consistently attacked the Right. He's been talking about a Right-Registration and a Right-Budget. In brackets, he has not mentioned in one word. But in its alternative budget, the Labour Party sees its cards. Here they see a clear distance from all the government parties. Here they are attacking cash support, private schools, small and medium-sized enterprises, to mention something. This shows what was the Workers' Party's real intentions. It was a tactical game to split the government parties. They never set the goal of getting into a real negotiating situation, because in many ways they did not want this. They wanted to play, they wanted to split. I have to say it disappoints me. And if that ever happened, for example. it has been said that the Workers' Party should be the eagle of Norwegian politics – if that is right – it has now definitely landed! Stoltenberg will probably have to find out that the Cooperative Government has been given a mandate for a policy different from that of the Workers' Party. We have presented that in this budget. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have had an impact on important heart matters. The main objective of the Government is to secure jobs through a tight budget that helps to dampen the pressure on interest and debt, to create new growth and development through reduced taxes and to invest in higher education and research. At the same time, we have the power to make clear policy priorities within a tight framework. We have prioritised poverty reduction at home and abroad, care for the elderly, psychiatry and health. It is a good budget – a very good budget – we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e352	Yes, today the Right gets the impact of many of its cases: tax relief for those who have the most, and targeting of well-being. That means that we're back to the care community, that one should seek, ask, means if one is to get it. One thing I'd like to praise Right for, and that's what they've done when it comes to means of assistance. That's very good. But the budget that is adopted tonight means cuts in education in a lot of municipalities. It's a contradiction to what Right-Law. We see today, and we've also seen it in vocabularies from the Christian People's Party before, that this hurts a lot of municipal politicians and a lot of spokesmen, both in the Christian People's Party and, in fact, in the Right, but also other spokesmen. For it is in the municipalities that well-being is created, and it is in the municipalities that the school is framed. The finance minister had a round earlier this afternoon where he chatted a little about the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's cooperation, and asked how it was going to work when they had such a different view of different things that these three parties had. It's a desire to cooperate on things you agree on. I am not going to go on with 'Hello this week', as they held last Saturday about four parties to cooperate, but I want to ask the parliamentary leader in the right: when the Progress Party, after the agreement has been written, writes in the setting that there is reason to doubt the inflation and interest-rate assumptions of the budget, and also that, if agreed with the Advance Party's support, the budget layout is 'a bad news for traffickers and others involved in illegal trading', and finally that this is more 'use of oil money', and that there is 'weakness in the budget', what does parliamentary leadership think about such a play?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e366	The representative of Frøiland does almost the same as I criticized in my post. Once again, one tries to split the government related to this. You can just give it up. This government stands united behind the Sem Declaration. It is the basis of this Government. In the case of school, if that's what the representative of Frøiland says, Norway would have the best school in the world. There is no country, I know, that spends more money in school than Norway does. The problem in Norway is that we get so little left for the heads we deposit, so this government has invested in the quality of the school. We were also among those who put the emphasis on teachers getting a higher salary. I remember very well how much criticism the Right Leader got when he took up that problem. In fact, the Labour Party did, but you know the world how much criticism we got when we suggested that this should happen. Why did we suggest that? Well, because all the studies show that although it's clearly great with beautiful school buildings and good with school books, what really matters to the students, the teacher. That's why we did exactly what we did to the school, and that's why it's so much of a priority. With regard to the Progress Party and their budget, the Progress Party must be in charge of it. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made it clear that they have their own budget which they are promoting in the Chamber, but that they will vote in a subsidiary way for our budget. We're very happy about that. That means that we get a majority for the main direction in this budget, and that is important for the cooperation parties. So we emphasize that the Progress Party in this of course has also got some of its heart matters done. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e375	It is possible that I am more concerned with the Norwegian maritime industry than most others, because I come from Vestfold, which has particularly long traditions in this industry. But I have also perceived concerns from many municipalities otherwise along the coast. Jobs in this sector are largely district jobs. It's been acted out by the mariners' organisations to get competitive conditions in line with our neighbouring countries, and it's actually also been promised from the Right's top management. Nevertheless, the government budget line included the removal of the measures agreed by the Progress Party and the Government Parties in the revised national budget this year. My question, to which I – and certainly also the industry – are concerned about getting answers, is: How does the Right look at the future of Norwegian maritime industry and Norwegian seafarers? Does the Right believe that this industry can survive in Norway with conditions that are so much worse than those introduced in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e382	I initially said what was the main objective of this budget. It was getting a tight budget that made sure that the interest rate went down and the exchange rate was weakened, if we can get it to. It's been the main goal of all of this. So it's also true that in that context you have to do some grip. In many ways you cannot have both a tight budget and at the same time give more money to everything. That's not possible. There will be a priority related to the presentation of the budget. You just have to be honest and honest with me. And in that priority we found out that this was an area where there was a basis for cutting. Then I register and accept that in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party this has come back in again. The reason why it was cut was simply the economic situation we have. We thought in many ways it was wrong in that situation to spend so much money to subsidize one industry. Nor is there any doubt that it was also a problem to subsidize waiters on ferries and not waiters at hotels around Norway. This is a paradox, which one will also later see become a problem. But Norwegian maritime nutrition is strong. I live at Bergen, and I know it very well. I am convinced that Norwegian maritime nutrition has vitality in itself to survive in the future, and it is linked to the competence that is there. I do not think it depends solely on the implementation of the net pay scheme proposed by the representative Monsen. Now we have that arrangement in place, and we accept that it will be in place in the coming years. And then we'll see what it brings. But I stress that the reason we took it away was because this country needed a tight budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e390	The budget to be adopted by the Grand Duchy today is particularly marked by the fact that the local government sector will remain in a state of crisis until next year. The framework adopted for the municipalities by the majority of the population does not at all enable them to deliver the well-being of the people who, not least the parties in the government, have promised in elections. We in Stortinget have been informed of this daily by rapporteurs and municipal politicians throughout the country, not least from the Right and Christian People's Party rapporteurs. And the cuts that the majority of the population imposes on municipalities will hit the weakest ones – cut in old age care, cut in home care, home health care and home care, cut in primary school, in childhood and youth, in ramti metal, in teaching materials, in maintenance, the most necessary refurbishment of old school buildings to provide the students with a sound indoor climate, increased parental pay for SFO and for camp school accommodation. The Nordic Association of Education has presented an overview of primary schools in the Nordic countries, where it appears that there are now proposals to set up 20 schools in the county, and that is only for the Nordic countries. If we take the country together, the number will be the multiple. The right went to the choice of less tax and more to school. The right promised that they would gain power, they would add more money to the school. We should get a big bet at school. Now it's indisputably the exact opposite that happens. As a result, there are significant cuts in primary school, downgrading and school closure. How can Oddvard Nilsen explain that there is so much difference between life and learning, between what the Right in elections says they should do, and what will result when they come to power?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e399	Let me first say this: it is only when the municipalities have completed their budgets that they know what the different municipalities will use in the various measures in the municipal sector. It probably varies from municipality to municipality according to what I see now. I see that some workers' party-driven municipalities are cutting significantly more in the school budget than, for example, they are. some Right-Handled municipalities, but it probably varies something. That the economy in the municipal sector is difficult, we'd like to admit. There has been a strengthening of this budgetary agreement, and that is good. But then the representative is wrong: the right did not promise more money for the school. In fact, we promised more money to pay the teachers, we did. But the Right Promise, was another school, a higher-quality school. We wanted to focus on increasing educational freedom in school. We want a school far more free than the school we have today. We want a school where the teacher is allowed to be a teacher in the classroom. We want a school with less government control, with more emphasis on quality, with more emphasis on variation, with more creativity. That's what we said. This is well known by the undersigned, among others. because he wrote part of the Right Program and participated in that process. I know this. The point is that this is what has been wrong with Norwegian school — too much state direction, too much state regulation, so that the pedagogical creativity of each school has diminished. That's what's the challenge to Norwegian school. You can't face a future that is constantly changing with a school that hangs in the past. So you have to create a school where creativity is far, far greater than today. That's what's the solution, and that's what the Right talked about in relation to the school – no more money first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e406	The government claims that a huge budget was presented to the business community, and that it has only improved afterwards. Is that just cheering? The budget agreement requires the distribution of 50 new farming concessions to receive 240 million. kr on the revenue side of the State budget. The industry has not been contacted, says the breeder's association, which is connected to the NHO. They think the time is wrong. Overproduction will increase. This is an important industry for the future, but it does not tolerate any more setbacks. Any person coming from Sweden can carry 10 kg of meat, instead of 3 kg as before. Stop the madness, says the National Union of the Meat Industry, connected to the NHO, and present figures that show that we are going to lose thousands of jobs on it. Nor have they been contacted in advance, and the effects have not been identified. The NHO refers to the national transport plan and says that there are already 1.2 billion kroner missing. They say there is free capacity in the civil engineering sector to build roads for a billion now this year. And they think it should have been done. The travel industry — even where they are connected to the NHO — says that the Stortinget has promised money to market Norway abroad, but it is not. It's just 16 million. kr. The same applies to those who feel the loss of forest culture subsidies. The Fozen Mechanical Workshops are still accused of gross fraud. Eivind Smith, a well-known lawyer, has made an investigation that shows that it was wrong for the workers' party government to go to the review, there was no basis. Gabrielsen's state council is holding on, he's leaning even more back. I think that's reason to say that we have a hostile government. Why don't the government parties care about a business that wants a government that cares?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e428	This was essentially a strange line. The government and the Right have tried to say what is our main point of view, namely to have a tight budget to facilitate conditions so that the crown and interest rates go down in this country, and to strengthen just competitive business. Where is the export industry in Norway? It's in District Norway. When I travel to the West, this is what they are asking for: can you provide a budget that is so tight that we can improve our framework conditions over time? Of course, there is a responsibility for wage development that has been. But the point of the entire budget is precisely what the representative Lund is asking about, creating a better framework for Norwegian business. That's the point. So it's a little weird to hear the Center Party say what they're saying. If there's any party here in this hall that's lived by the rule of protecting yourself for progress, it's the Center Party. It's never going to work. The countries that have tried it have all failed. The truth is, in an open economy like ours, you have to face the competition that is. The Center Party has closed its eyes, they've had ties to their eyes, they haven't been willing to see it. I remember discussions in this room about information technology. I'm not going to take that discussion one more time, but listening to the Center Party was very encouraging. Then you should also protect yourself from all kinds of competition. The result would, of course, be a depopulated District Norway. That would be the consequence of what they say. In terms of employment, they are ultimately dependent on Norway as a nation having a framework that makes us competitive with other countries. I have never experienced that the Central Party has been a voice party for just the framework conditions for meeting international competition – and it is coming. That competition comes, no matter where you are in this country. In the innermost hook, on the top mountains, in the deepest valley and on the outermost island – the competition will come, and it will be international in all its apex. Those who don't understand it are going to destroy District Norway, and they're going to make sure the workplaces disappear from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e439	I would like to have the former Right-to-Right-to-Right Man on the Transport Policy. I wonder how he feels about this budget. So far he has dropped to explain himself in this field. He was early critical of most of what most others did in the field of transportation. I'm going to be happy to sit down from the debate here in the Chamber when we had the National Transport Plan up to treatment on 15 February 2001, but I could have found many more juicy quotes from the press. Then the representative Nilsen said: ‘Right-wing believes that during the 1990s a person has not given sufficient priority to transport. This has weakened the economic value creation as a support for living and employment in our country." So they suggested NOK 3.8 billion more to the National Transport Plan, of these SEK 2.8 billion to the road. Where was that money? The Right Party and the Government Party reiterated this in the Sem Declaration. Where was the money? I can tell Oddvard Nilsen something. He cannot have seen that in the Government and the Advance Party's promises for this year and next year there is a follow-up rate on tribal roads of 39.8 pst in relation to the national transport plan. That would be 50 pst. – and other highways of 42.2 pst. – it should also be 50 pst. Where did the bet go? Can't it be that there's pressure in the economy that's stronger? It was actually stronger last year than this year. I met the party trap for Nilsen, Jens Petter Ekorenes, formerly in the fall, on a tour of the West. His penance was ready: get rid of it, and we'll get rid of the rest, we can do it ourselves. Transportation for he is equal road. How will the representative Nilsen, the parliamentary leader of the largest government party, who one would think had some influence on what the government came up to, explain to his party party and all the others out in District Norway who are busy on the road, that the money does not come as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e455	It's true that transportation means a lot. Transport means a great deal to business, and especially to the export industry, transport means a good deal. It is also right to say that in this budget there is also an increase in the appropriations for, among other things, the conciliation. the road sector. But one should not hide the fact that a person would like to see the budget for transport slightly larger. Let me say what I initially said in a previous line. When it comes to creating a tight budget and all the industries that also want more appropriations for the transport sector, it is so strong that what they want in the first place is a tight budget, of course you have to make sure that you get a tight budget! Then you cannot at the same time grant a lot of money that you could of course want in many other areas. That's what's real. And let me also underline one thing. There is also considerable investment in this budget for public transport – much more than what you have done in the past, much more than what was done when the Workers' Party was in government. And it is also true that with regard to the structural changes related to the transport sector, which are as important as the appropriations, because they will release additional resources for the transport sector in the next round, it cannot be said that the Workers' Party has been a driver for it. It's been a heavy process, and a long process, to get it to. The Labour Party has fought against every measure. There are considerable resources. It is also stated in the national transport plan, which was not mentioned, that if structural measures were to be provided, significant resources could be released that could be deployed in connection with the development of transport. And that's good. It's true that there are a lot of right-wing people who are engaged in transportation. But there are also an incredible number of Right-People who think – yes, most people who have called me say – that the most important thing is that we make sure that there is a tight budget. And this government has provided for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e462	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e465	The Prime Minister spoke a little about the budgetary negotiations as a system and thought that perhaps some changes should be made to them. We had a debate a year ago that ended with the government asking cabinet questions. The progress part bent off, and I told you not to be too sure that we're doing the same next time. I'm glad it didn't happen the next time. But when it comes to the negotiations, I think I'd say from, if the government were once again to go into negotiations, about a somewhat clearer line and clearer position, so that you don't create the feeling in us that the first round is just pro forma in order to get the opportunity to go to the Workers' Party, in order to claim it for party-tactical reasons to a certain group in the Christian People's Party. I don't think I'll recommend another such attempt. Then I think the government should choose in advance either the Workers' Party or the Advance Party and not believe that you can run slums between both of them. It's a advice to the Government. So the prime minister stressed quite strongly all the good things in the state budget, claiming that others had done black paint. He also talked about the commitment to health care and psychiatry. Yes, where is the cheering noise from health businesses? I have read in the newspapers that in the psychiatry of Ullevål Hospital you have to cut 80 posts – precisely in the psychiatry. And when the Prime Minister – I assume that he has given priority to something more important than the Great Britain's financial debate right now – uninhibited boasts of the bet without being able to point out the jubilee, then it's no wonder that some of us question whether there is coverage for some of the claims that come from the Prime Minister. The third thing I want to remind the Prime Minister is the number of thrones where the fight against organized crime was highlighted. Where is the follow-up by the Government to the fight against organised crime, when we know that the main income of organised crime is the smuggling of spirits and tobacco, as well as drugs, of course. After decisions in Denmark and Sweden, a policy has just been maintained that makes Norway a paradise for organised crime, with enormous potential for profit. It would have been interesting if perhaps some of the Right People in the Government too began to take organized crime and border trade somewhat more seriously, not just during the election campaign. We have followed up on our budgetary options in this area. But one of the most discouraging things is the total lack of understanding of the maritime sector shown by the Government and the Prime Minister. I had a line on this. It seems that the Prime Minister has failed to realise that the EU has adopted a policy towards its Member States which means that they want to strengthen their share of the global shipping market. A number of countries have already introduced net pay arrangements and improved tax regimes for shipping. This is when the Norwegian Shipowners' Association says that the train is leaving. Either we have to comply with the same conditions as we introduce into the EU, or we have to risk significant deflagration and deportation. In the merchant fleet it is already approx. 18 000 Norwegian seafarers and 50000 non-residents. However, shipping offices, brokers, insurance and financing continue to be part of Norway. If the shipping companies move and the seafarers get away, like recruiting to a lot of the other maritime business, we start building the industry down, and then it's a conscious desire from the Government. You don't say as Oddvard Nilsen now said in a line change, that there was only the need for a tight budget that was the reason for cutting the two arrangements that exist. It argues that selective aid and selective industrial activities are being targeted. The point is that it is prohibited under the EEA Agreement with selective commercial aid as State aid. Here, however, the EU has opened up a derogation for the shipping industry, and this is what the Progress Party has proposed in the form of law and is being discussed in Odelstinget. That's now, for the sake of the long term, we should adopt this, just to give a signal to the entire maritime industry that it is actually something we can rely on to live on, after oil and gas have ended. That signal should definitely be given by the Stortinge. Whenever it has been opened to follow in the yard support, where one according to the EU violates State aid rules, I would like to see it done in the case of shipping as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e483	There is a lot to say about the budget debate in the autumn. But one of the most striking things is that we have rarely seen a greater distance between a party's criticism of a budget and what the party ultimately votes for. When the budget was presented, the party of Advancement almost had the entire budget and the government. Now they vote in favour of the budget in general, with a few minor changes. For example, the Progress Party announced a fight to keep the system of waivers on the blue prescription for the elderly and the disabled. Now the Progress Party is voting for it to be reintroduced for the vast majority of pensioners. As from 1 January, 625000 old-age pensioners are to re-pay the excess, which they are releasing today. John Alvheim said that the proposal to remove the tomb support was petty, immoral and macabre. Today, even though Alvheim felt that this was immoral and makabertous, it is the Progress Party that is responsible for the removal of this aid. When the budget became known, the Progress Party was out criticising, among other things. the proposal to remove the early childhood supplement in the area of child welfare, and the proposal to halve State aid to the school leisure system had a strong settlement. The cost of the school leisure system is now increasing, for example: Here in the city, and it's the Progress Party that makes sure that the support here is halved. Corresponding to the unemployed: Social security is severely cut. Local authorities receive less care for the elderly, and new cuts are also introduced in relation to single care providers. What I think is the problem is that the Progress Party defends all these cuts by showing that they only vote subsidiaryly for this. But even if you vote subsidiaryly, you vote in favour of the budget. The Progress Party must take responsibility for what they actually vote for, especially because they vote for a wide range of measures, cut, as they have been strongly criticised in the past, but which they are now making sure that it becomes a majority in order to implement. They have simply thought that this is more important than what they could have achieved by cooperating or by keeping to their own budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e496	Let me start by reminding Jens Stoltenberg of the background of a part of my criticism when the government presented its government budget. The main reason was that I said that we are the richest country in the world, but the government prioritizes to spend NOK 162 billion to increase the oil fund. And then you've gone into a lot of petty cuts to get it done, I'm stuck on it. The problem is that here is the Workers' Party's heart agreement with the Government. The Workers' Party – when making its alternative state budget – also begins with: What is most important? Well, the most important thing is to increase the oil fund by 162 billion kroner. There shall be no more than what the economists in their offices, rooms and cellars have found to be sound. I'm stuck with it. What we could do was choose whether we should just have our own primary budget, or whether we should go into negotiations. It has been so for many years that the Workers' Party has also voted subsidiaryly, which is the second best, because the option has been worse. And that, of course, was the situation we got into. When the Workers' Party presented its alternative budget, with approx. 4 billion kr more in taxes than is now adopted, and when they came down with restrictions for small and medium-sized enterprises through the sharing model – and a number of other things that went the wrong way, with the increase in taxes and taxes – we saw that if we could at least remove the worst disadvantages from the Bondevik government's budget, it might become edible and give subsidiary support. And it has been. We have had a positive impact on what Jens Stoltenberg negotiated, but which he failed to do. The permit regime will not be changed. We got increased depreciation rates for business. We got increased pensions for married pensioners, which has been a nightmare for 20 years, and for which we've been fighting for 20 years. All other parties have always voted against, have always been against doing something concrete. Now, all of a sudden, almost all of the parties agree with us. We think we've chosen the sensible thing, but there's still a lot in the budget that we don't like, that's unsocial, that we should have changed very much. But at least we got better – and we avoided government chaos, with Jens Stoltenberg back in the chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e505	Let me first of all thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets for its thoroughness. I'd like to do that. I would also like to stress that the first enquiry was not meant just as a game. It was intended to lead to a settlement to the greatest extent. That it didn't work out is something else. It was because there was too much distance between what the Progress Party wanted and what we could offer. But I stress again that there is reason to boast of the prudence of the Progress Party, both in the first debates and in the other debates. But then it's like, as my white hair shows, that I'm getting closer to retirement, and I have grandchildren -- maybe Carl I. Hagen also has it. That's why I'm involved in the generation accounts. Because that's how we're going to make sure that the generations that come after us also do well. This year the net supply to the petroleum fund is NOK 138 billion. However, if you look at the pension liabilities in 2003, they are approx. NOK 250 billion. That means we don't have the power to set aside enough money to cover our future pension obligations. In total, I believe that the pension obligations are about NOK 3,400 billion. My question to the representative Carl I. Hagen is, doesn't this bother him? Doesn't he worry that we might now make a system by using as much oil money as they do, which in the next run will go out on our grandchildren, who might pay our pensions? I'm busy with this. It's going on from a generation to generation, it's going on with our political responsibility, and it's going to manage resources for future generations as well. So my question is, doesn't this worry Carl I. Hagen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e514	To conclude with the negotiations, I would like to say that we agree that we should not go into the details and stages of the negotiations. But let me give a little hint to Oddvard Nilsen: there was a lot of distance when we separated, but there was also a lot of distance between what we were offered in the first round and what was the final result. Had the government not been so careful and pulled it out and arranged for a break in order to get time to go to the Workers' Party, but had been a little more attentive to once instead of throwing away 14 days, we might have managed to get to the port in the first round. Please bring it with you to the next year. So to the pension obligations -- this lesson that comes from Jens Stoltenberg and the others. The Norwegian pension scheme is structured according to the pay as you go principle. It's never been adopted, and you never meant to build up any funds. The opinion has been that current expenditure on pensions is to be covered by the current social security income of the employer and employees. That's what the model has been. No transition has been decided to build up funds for the pension obligations. And when you talk about the liabilities, would you, like, suddenly some year, remove all the employer's fees and all the social contributions because the liabilities are to be covered unilaterally by the returns of this fund? It's completely meaningless, and it's a huge attempt to trick the Norwegian people into thinking that the oil fund has something to do with pensions – which it doesn't have. The action rule also controls what you can use by the fund. So it's not like this has something to do with pension obligations today. You see that you might have to put something off, but then it's also possible to say that instead of just switching to financial instruments, in shares and bonds abroad, maybe you can use some of this capital to build up capital in Norway and to build infrastructure, so that we actually have something to live on even after the oil age is over, instead of just feeding our competitors with the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e525	Clearly, the Progress Party has a significant explanation problem when it accepts a settlement that is so far from what they themselves have told rhetorically throughout the harvest is deeply unsocial. And it is true that this government budget that is being adopted is deeply unsocial. It's amazing that the Progress Party will accept it, based on the rhetoric they themselves have had. From the point of view of SV, it is shameful to introduce excesses on a blue prescription for many pensioners, who have just removed it. I think that the conclusion that it's possible to subtract from this is that those who are probably the most satisfied today are the Government, because this means that Hagen will not at any time in this great period trap the Government. You can make lots of games and specks, but basically it's Hagen who is the guarantor of this government, and he won't give up this role at any cost as Stortingen's playwright number. 1st@item: inlistbox I think that Bondevik, Foss and the other government college now will be able to relax and say that when Hagen doesn't even do it on this budget, he'll never do it during this period. That means that the government is now probably even stronger than before can sit and plan for the entire period. The garden will bend off sooner or later, almost no matter what we present to the Storting. Hagen has also said what he really wants, because Hagen has often pretended to be a place between the Workers' Party and the Right in economic policy, i.e. there is a snare of social ferniss in this. The reality is that there is now an explicit objective that this should be a purely right-wing project, that is, that the Right Party and the Advance Party should enter a government, and that there should no longer be a social fern in this, but simply a purely right-wing project. I think a lot of Hagen's voters will be surprised at this, because you'll be left as if you're something other than what you actually are. When you accept this budgetary agreement which is actually here, it is clear that this is the reality. This is the recording of a purely right-hand project, which Hagen can't in any way think of collapsing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e536	The President would point out that it might not be so wise to characterize each other from this pulpit. It can quickly come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e539	I agree with your heart. I did not know that Kristin Halvorsen had given me the title that the representative now tried to stick to me. So for this, we in the Progress Party should have an explanation need. I do not feel that I have a great need for explanation. We are basically satisfied in the Progress Party, both with the attention we receive, and in fact with the upswing we currently have in the polls. I think it is completely different who in case have some sort of explanation needs for the Norwegian people. And the others, unlike Djupedal, have at least perceived that we had reduced the proposal of the Bondevik government to an increase of 500 kroner in self-interest, to $1,350. This applies to all the weak groups. I think many people have noticed that we have given tax relief to everyone with less than NOK 190 000 in income, which is a very good social profile. I expect that Djupedal has noticed that we have been fully financed by the kindergarten agreement we have concluded with SV and the Workers' Party, and otherwise we have been strengthened by the agreement with the municipality economy by 700 million. more than the Christian People's Party proposed in the Government's draft budget, for which they are, of course, responsible. Most of the things we've done have a very good social profile. And I think there are many of the SV's voters who thought it was okay that we got a little reduced on one of the alcohol charges to reduce the border trade, even if it was too small. I think that many of SV's voters also think that the sky-high level of taxes we have on alcohol is meaningless; that means that we are the country where those who run organized crime can earn the most. There are several things we are not satisfied with, and in our alternative state budget we have all these things in place. But we got an increase in the pension for all married and cohabiting pensioners with the multiplicity of the amount that you lose when – if you are a major consumer – you have to pay $1,350 in the hands of medicine. Because that's the roof. It's no more than that. And all those who have received a better pension have come far better out of it, and there are quite a few hundred thousand, although we also regret that we didn't get the government parties to also eliminate the increase in excess of medications on blue prescriptions for disabled and pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e550	First, a reference to the generation account. The Progress Party recognizes that we have a problem with the 'pay as you go' principle when people are working per. pensioner goes down from four today to less than two when our grandchildren get the responsibility? The Christian People’s Party is very pleased that the Progress Party took responsibility for the country’s lack of a budget. The people must know that the Progress Party in this budgetary phase has our solution-oriented and responsible. And the solutions have our good ones. 600 million. More on health in a budget that already had a lift for psychiatry and hospitals, is a handshake to Norway as a whole. That the pensioners get more, it seems the Christian People's Party is super. As a coastal woman, I must say that I am slipping over the fact that maritime nutrition is given good conditions. And that the Advance Party has also accepted that we protect the poorest in this world, I think I'm good. Perhaps the very best thing, as a municipal politician: the municipalities get an extra DKK 1 billion, and the people should know that the Progress Party has contributed to it. And assuming that the Progress Party in its primary budget has a cut of $3 billion to the same municipalities, this is just a bottom. And we accept it in the Christian People's Party. That's why I want to ask Carl I. Hagen: Has the Progress Party understood that care and schooling can be a better control at the municipal level? Has the Progress Party accepted that welfare is created in Kommune-Noreg? Is it so that in the future, the Progress Party will put away axe and engine case when they are going to cut and change the municipal budget in the future? And finally, the Progress Party has accepted a tight budget, and it's great. Does the Progress Party perhaps feel ever so little concerned that their primary budget proposals could mean higher interest rates and increase unemployment, since our economic environment so clearly thinks so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e561	The answer to the last question is a clear no, because as Siv Jensen has explained, we have the lowest underlying price increase, which is the very central concept for determining the interest rate from the central bank. So no, we're relatively sure that if our budget had been carried through, we would have just had a drop in interest rates. Then the representative Apelthun Seele was also concerned about whether the principle of «pay as you go» is problematic. Yes, of course it is. And we've always said that. We've also been to create funds in relation to that. We've even made a constitutional proposal on that. And if someone, in relation to today's debate, had been interested in going back to the debate that opened the election campaign in 1989, you would have a rather strange experience. In the first NRK debate in 1989, I was in duel with Gro Harlem Brundtland, where she scolded out our folklore because it was tighter, more limited. Then she turned around with future promises that she lacked 100 billion dollars a year to be able to finance, because that time and now was the principle «pay as you go». Then we'll see what it's going to be when we're dealing with the Pension Commission's suspension. There are some ominous signs that some people intend to create a pension scheme that increases the peak and reduces the minimum pension. And I don't think we're very willing to do that, as we think. The maritime sector should be given good conditions. Yeah, that's right, but it's limited. It doesn't help the big maritime sector. There we have to make significant changes to the tax system and in the case of permanent net wages and salaries. It is disappointing that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party vote against it. In the case of municipalities, when we reduce taxes by NOK 28 billion, it means a much lower price increase. This means much less the need for gross wage adjustments, so that net is the total effect positive, we believe, for Kommune-Norway. When we do not get our whole arrangement through, it was of course a pleasure to press the Government to increase the municipal budget by a total of one billion in the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e572	On October 3rd this year – after the Minister of Finance had presented the state budget – I experienced being passed by Carl I. Hagen on his way out to the central hall here, to put his face in serious folders and declare that on behalf of the Norwegian people he was disappointed. In view of the fact that the Progress Party has come back to the Progress Party half a month later, and after the Government has almost come back to the Progress Party after going round on the Workers' Party and the SV without achieving a result, I have not been able to move more than just over NOK 4 billion, I have to wonder who Carl I. Hagen is disappointed on behalf of – when you are unable to achieve better negotiating results than that, when you knew at the same time that you were putting the Government's life in his hands. It is remarkable that, in such a situation, the Progress Party has not been able to obtain an impact on several of its own requirements. What has largely been achieved is demands that would have been given a majority in this Chamber independently of the negotiations of the Progress Party. There was a majority, for the most part, for which the Progress Party has obtained a majority – the reversal of the reimbursement system for seafarers, etc. Is it more important for the Progress Party to reduce the motorcycle fee, the caravan fee and the alcohol charge than to ensure that pensioners and untrained persons retain the exemption from medical prosthetics on a blue prescription? Is it more important to reduce the motorcycle charge, the caravan fee and the alcohol charge than to maintain the burial aid? The removal of it was a personal attack on John I. Alvheim. Is it true that the negotiations of the Progress Party have been justified by the fact that Siv Jensen’s promises to the motorcyclists and Øystein Hedstrøm’s promises to the caravaners have been worth more in the Progress Party than John I. Alvheim’s indignation that the gravitational support will be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e581	I still have no problem repeating what I said when the budget was presented, that on behalf of the Norwegian people I am still disappointed that the other parties give priority to increasing the oil fund by 162 billion kroner above all else, and that when they first say it, it has to go beyond some social benefits. We still believe that those who live today and those who have problems today should benefit from this huge surplus of our state budget. So when all the other countries are struggling with deficits in the state budget, you're tightening up in Norway, even at a time when there are actually signs of dramatic growth in unemployment, and it's probably a stupid time to tighten up, because that means that you send a lot of people out to work before you start talking about doing something about it. And that's what the majority do knowingly and willfully because you keep the rule of action, because you're going to have it and that tightness. And then Odd Roger Enoksen says that we've only moved for NOK 4.4 billion. So that's $6.3 billion a year. I would like to see if Odd Roger Enoxen or anyone else can refer to a previous budgetary procedure where there has actually been increased expenditure and reduced revenue on such a scale. My first budget agreement, where I also had to save the government, was the fall of 1985. Then Jan P. Syse and I agreed on a settlement during the ejaculation against Christmas, written on a napkin. The frame was 201 million. kr. At least it has become far more expensive for those who will now negotiate with the Progress Party than it was in the very first agreement. No one else has achieved as much real changes as we have had this time. I challenge those who might think otherwise. I am not talking about replacing one fee increase with another fee increase of 7 billion in proceeds. It's not the transfer of money – it's something else. We've got a real move of NOK 6.3 billion, and nobody's done it before. And as for whether we should be so obedient to the Government in the future, I just have to say to Odd Roger Enoxen and everyone else: that will show the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e592	The cord shift is over. The President will advise the participants in the debate to stick to the scheduled speaking time. It'll be late anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e598	I almost think the representative Hagen is starting to dress the role of explaining why it's not possible to move on all the world's billions, but that one can care about a few little millions here and there. It's not going to get away from that this is a pro-mille deal anyway, and it's miles between the billions of Carl I. Hagen roams around on the TV screen, and what he actually manages to achieve here in the Storting. And that's not the way that these are the things that were the majority in advance. Increased abstinences for pensioners and disabled persons who are not minimum pensioners, it is the Progress Party that has obtained a majority. There is another possible majority, the Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party, if they had gone that way. The same applies in relation to the unemployed. This applies to the burial aid, in the case of the infant supplement, and to the SFO. These are cuts for which the Progress Party has secured a majority. I'm sure they'll be able to defend it in a reasonable way. But it's a completely different advance from what many voters believe they're in. SV insists that the most eye-catching aspect of this budget agreement is not the number of dollars that have been moved on. It is not possible to say that there is a clear right hand profile on the heads that have been moved on. There's more about shooting with little hail from a long distance – a little here and a little there. But what lies here of leadership for the future, for the next six months and out of this magnification period, is that it's seizing quite a lot of money, and secondly that it's a clear right-wing policy. It is a project of privatisation to a great extent that supports a tougher, colder, more materialistic competitive society – the opposite of what was the title of the Value Commission when it was established in its time. What is the case in the SV's opinion is that this government's project has become a clearer Right-Project than it was last year at the same time. Now the Progress Party has also come to the point that they have given up ever to be in government, so really into the taboo with Kjell Magne Bondevik's help, and have realized that if they're going to be able to do it, the Right and Advance Party alone must form a government. And the shipping club is not a small frame around such a statement. In SV we see very clearly that we have a responsibility for an alternative to this policy and this alliance, and I would like to spend the rest of my time presenting and talking about what we have on our hearts. In SV we know that we can make good choices, but we'll barely get over 50 pst. alone. So that means we have to be willing to cooperate and negotiate with other parties if we're going to get through some of our own policies. And we're ready for that. It's a hard job we're facing, because there's a lot of voters who are going to be mobilised if we're going to be able to get to a majority who put the right policy on the sideline. SV does not realize that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will bring some common programme before the decision to raise a stake in 2005. On the contrary, in SV we see that here it is to make three independent parties with each of their own policies mobilise voters on their own political basis, while at the same time being very clear that we want to cooperate with other parties in order to get through as much of that policy as possible. SV's voters are entitled to the results of their voice, and they are entitled to liberal and pragmatic trustees to do so. I also do not believe that it is possible to mobilise voters in the chair. It may be that someone chooses once in a while that it could be fun to see SV in government, but that it would really get the voters in hand and make the heartbeat flow around the country, I don't believe in that. In fact, I believe that the voters would like politicians and a political party to fight primarily for what they want to accomplish, not for the chair. Let me make a few headlines: what is in stark contrast to what the government parties and the Progress Party have agreed on, must be the enormous challenge we have to create a working life where there is room for whole people who don't provide 110, 120, 130 or 140 pst. Every day, but where there is room for those who can't deliver 100 pst., a working life where you realize that if this country is going to move forward, there's someone in this world who needs to have some children, and while they have young children, they have to have some freedom. We must have that kind of work life! We also have to have a work life that is such that if you really want to have an inclusive work life, it means that there should also be room for those who have some sick leave. It is often associated with, for example: a disability. So what we need is a liberal working life that gives room for good life, and that makes people not shrink until they're 50. We want to last until we're both 67 and 70 years old, and then the challenge might be the opposite of what it was before. Because what happens if a 30-year-old meets the wall after having participated in work for maybe five, six, seven or eight years? This includes, among other things: because they work too much overtime. They don't know how to go home. They don't know how to have a life other than their job. No one says to them, "Now that's enough, turn off the light and get out of here!" Call your mother and find something festive! – If you can think of something festive with your mother? [[Laughter]] Yes, you can! Mothers are so many! – But that’s the challenge, not what the government is going through, threatening that if we don’t get sick leave now, we’ll have to cut the sick pay system. We have to understand modern working life; it's often the opposite of what it was before. We must have a clear headline that people should be able to be a whole working life. Point two: What is calling for a large-scale effort is to think knowledge and competence from cradle to grave. This society must equip the nursery sector. High quality kindergartens. That's where we've got a majority that puts in place both at everyone's price and at a low price, so that the kids that need it the most get there. For example, minority children are underrepresented in kindergartens. And it has to end with a real reform of continuing education, which is so that everyone – including those who think they were short at school – can get skills, diplomas and proof that they have knowledge. It is to equip a knowledge society that ensures that everyone, no matter what their parents serve, has access to it. And then a little visit to the Right: now I'm so tired of hearing that we have the world's most expensive school – with bragging and bram and heavy headlines – without anyone saying what's in the costs of Norwegian school. First, it costs about the same as the schools in the Nordic countries. Second, 40 pst. Of our schools, few schools, i.e. schools located around the district of Norway. If it is such that the Right wants to lay down all the cross schools throughout the country and bus children for hours on a cross and across every single day, then come out and say it! If not, you have to include it on the accounting page. The third is that we have many children included in the ordinary school, children with a minority background, but also many others who, in other countries, would be put in special schools. And that's what we want. They're going to have room in a regular school! Fourth, teachers in Norway have a little less readability than teachers in other countries. When you take this away, we use it in the middle and middle of school in Norway. Everyone knows that quality costs, and everyone knows that quality in school is clean air, nice premises and all that, but first and foremost that you have inspired teachers who have the ability to see each child and find the code, so that they can use all their senses when they're learning. The next points are about governance, ownership. Why on earth should we be a branch country on the outskirts of Europe? Here we have really proud traditions from the labour movement to stand on. It wasn't like they were just running distribution policies; it was like they wanted to shape the future. They built a system of concessions, of repatriation, of Statoil and of DIEE – many arrangements that made us keep our values, and not just leave them open so that multinational companies could run away with them. The next point is that we have to make sure that the private and public sectors have a standard that matches each other. If you don’t get ordinary people to stop doing tasks together – if it’s called every day that this is a sector that should have much less to walk with than other ones. I have a lot more on my heart, for example. with regard to the EU, foreign policy and that we need someone who does not just translate what Bush said yesterday, to Norwegian today, to have a separate and independent voice in the world. [[The President clubs]] I'm not going to say anything about it in this context, but I can hope for some lines so I can get back to it. Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e630	It is now given access to, so the lines come in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e633	The financial situation shows that there is a broad consensus between the SV and the Workers' Party on the direction in social development. I believe, as Kristin Halvorsen, that it is important to find, as she said, ‘smart and pragmatic’ solutions that allow you to make everyday life simpler and better for most people. There are two areas where SV has, let's say, flirted a little bit with the Government. The two areas are environmental policy and part of rural policy. At some point it seemed as if the SV smelled at the device of the Government's environmental policy. Now we've seen a budget agreement where it's cut off in environmental protection research, it's cut off in energy research, yes, it's even cut off in nuclear security measures. How has Kristin Halvorsen's assessment of the government's environmental policy been during this year, as some practical aspects of the policy put into practice have been seen? One of the other things that SV and Kristin Halvorsen have been concerned about when you see the possibilities for an interaction centre-left in Norwegian policy is defrosting. Social groups may be attenuated, but there are also areas of regionalisation. At one point, it seemed that SV was somewhat offended by the Prime Minister saying yes to a district commission. Now the government has followed up the invitation with considerable cuts in the district policy measures, and while the grass grows, the cow dies. At the same time, the government parties gave the impression of returning with a district fund, which is no longer a district fund, but which, suddenly, when the budget was presented, had been converted into a loan arrangement. How is Kristin Halvorsen and SV’s assessment of these district measures today when one has seen the whole of the government’s policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e644	Let us take environmental policy first: in fact, we think that this government showed promising paces when it comes to environmental policy, and we have been open, honest and honest in discussing it with them. It was also the case that we made a settlement with the government parties in connection with the climate notification. We were actually closer to the Government than the Workers' Party did. There is no concealment that part of environmental policy, in particular oil and gas and climate emissions, will be a challenge in the cooperation between the Workers' Party and the SV. But if there is a willingness for solutions, it is clear that there are solutions. But the more the government has to do with the Advance Party, the worse it gets, to say it like that. This agreement also contains a variety of ‘protection and sustainable use’, as they call it. It probably means more snowmobiles and cars in the field, and more fighting at the field, like one. The second, what is really sad in this budget, is public transport. We are a country that spends much less than most EU countries on public transport. We're in a situation where you have a public traffic that drives and advertises daily to get people to take the private car. And it's clear that if we don't get anything done about it, it doesn't help with all the world's good climate goals, because car traffic accounts for a significant proportion of climate emissions. So in terms of district policy: Yes, we've been open to discuss this with the government parties. But it is clear that the disappointment of us when they drive and drive cabins and pits on district measures is at least as great as in the Workers' Party. But the most important thing that this government does in relation to the districts is the municipal economy. There is still a significant difference between the Arbeiderpartiet and SV, although the direction is one of the same. So we have a huge job to do in making sure that the most important services that people receive, school and care, match the standard compared to the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e653	The representative, Halvorsen, now said that there was no good public transport budget that had been put forward, but there has never been as much spending on public transport as in this budget. So should Kristin Halvorsen. SV has long accused the Government of not doing enough to prevent job closure. It may not have been so strange that SV and Kristin Halvorsen didn't talk about it now, because the government has made the best contribution to securing jobs with a tight budget and better framework conditions for business. New jobs can be created through forward-looking research and development efforts, including: in the case of increased direct research aid and tax deductions on the research costs of enterprises. Both business and trade union are satisfied with that. What is the SV's response to the problems of the competitive sector? Indeed, investment in fair distribution, in good life, in children and young people, and the transition to a green knowledge society where oil investment is cut and taxes and taxes on business are increased. In its alternative state budget, SV says that an important prerequisite for further economic growth is to increase the supply of work. My question to Kristin Halvorsen is then whether she believes that tax incentives of around SEK 4 billion increase investment capacity, promote innovation and conversion in business and economic growth, or whether SV believes that economic growth will only increase the cost of the publicly protected sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e669	Yes, we believe that this is a budget that strengthens business, that increases employment, that ensures that it is invested and invested in the long term, that it is sound and – I was saying – for the benefit of people and countries. It is simply because we know that it is not possible to secure jobs, or districts, or business, or management, by sweeping out to owners in buckets and buckets. Point 1: because it is not the case that Norwegian business is in deficit. No, they're doing pretty good money. Point 2: It's not like they're just shutting down companies that've gone out of business or that's going out of business. No, they're moving out companies that have pretty good profits. But if the rumor goes that there's a higher profit to get elsewhere, they take toothbrushes or whatever it might be, and leave. It is not possible to adopt an industrial policy in Norway in 2002. It requires a certain level of governance, but it also requires that a rate of what we're going to go through with is knowledge and competence. We can't win anything on being the best boy or girl in the class at the lowest possible taxes and taxes, we can't win anything on being those who are going to compete at the lowest possible cost on the labour force. But we can compete on skills, we can compete on knowledge, so it's the best business policy in the future. When you're around talking to a lot of business managers, you can see that this is precisely what you need in many places too: competent labour force, which can do a job in the competitive sector. And the most important thing that the Right – if they are concerned about listening to business – really should be reorientated to is monetary policy. What the export industry is currently struggling with is a high price, and it is fully possible within the mandate of the Bank of Norway per year. to conduct a different monetary policy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e674	Up to many times today, we have heard the words ‘knowledge and competence’ and no one is well in doubt about SV’s commitment to Norwegian school. We've heard that through election campaigns and countless big debates, and we believe it. But it's actually like we're spending more money in school than most people, even though it's possible to construct calculations where you subtract a good part of the expenses, and say that really we don't. The fact is that we do that, it's just that we've also added some costs that some other countries don't have. Another fact, as many studies show, is that we get very little out of this effort in terms of knowledge and competence. We spend $10 billion a year on special education that nobody has even bothered to evaluate, and that's basically about plaguing students with more of what they're bad about, instead of letting them work on what they're good at. SV wants to bet on the school, but mostly only talks about more money, about premises and ventilation systems, very rarely about the contents of the school, while researchers tell us that special education for the weakest works poorly, and the nicest largely sails their own sea in Norwegian school. But no money for the school can be guaranteed either. When Stortinget grants money to the municipalities, Stortinget no longer has control of the money. The municipalities are free to spend the money on things completely different from school, if they want to. I have two specific questions for SV: Does SV have a setup to direct the money directly to the schools, so that they achieve what they want? Does SV think that there is a need to do something about the content of the school in order to achieve the SV's objective of knowledge and competence in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e685	I would like to thank the representative Monsen most warmly for two minutes to talk about what I really am burning for most of all in politics. What matters to the costs of school, I no longer want to discuss with the Right and Advance Party people until I get the list of which branch schools they're going to drop out, or which integrated kids are going out, so that they get below the average for the rest of the Nordic region. Then it might be interesting to discuss. The Monsen has one point, and it's about the billions of dollars that are used for special education, not because these are wasted dollars, but because in very many schools it works like this, to get a few extra dollars, a person has to find a diagnosis of a young person, put it in hard letters in the middle of his forehead and say, "We need so many extra hours so that little Per can become a useful person here in the world. And that's very, very wrong. If the schools had the opportunity to get those heads and use them in another way, they could just put the teaching up in such a way that kids could use more of what they were good at. And there are lots of good schools working just like that. I never forget a little guy I met at something called nature school, near Stavanger. There was a guy with a hat on him -- it was far out in the spring, he didn't need a hat at all -- he was standing there and hanging. At this school they could put yarn, they could meddle with boat engines, they could hold on. Then he told me the following: you see, he said, I'm really terribly bad in Norwegian, in math, in English – and for everything he rammed up like he was bad in, so I'm shrinking the whole kid in front of me. Then he said, "But I'm really good at those boat engines." Putting yarns and putting out rushes I'm pretty good at, and if I get to do a little bit of that, I kind of get better in the other too! And that's just the kind of school we're going to have, a school where kids who don't just have theoretical, factual intelligence, but practical intelligence, show that they can do something, because then they grow on it. And that's the whole goal of our school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e694	Full employment should be a clear goal for all of us, including for SV. Unfortunately, today we find that several Norwegian companies are flagging out, and they use the high Norwegian costs as argumentation. We've heard here before, and we've heard from many other places that NHO, LO and a number of companies complain that there's too much cost, and that there's a need for a tight budget. This tight budget should aim for a reduced interest rate and, if possible, a weakened Norwegian krone. But if this is to succeed, there's got to be a priority, and there's also something SV needs to take inwards. After a fairly good decision to grow, I actually thought that SV would take an active role here in Stortingen, but on a case-by-case basis, especially in relation to the budget work, they have been outside again. They have taken up the so-called commentator space again, as they have done many years earlier. And it's convenient to have the suggestions without being willing to take the burdens that it is to be in front of the majority. We have witnessed this in this budget as well. That's not how I thought SV would use its possibilities this autumn – its new strength here in Stortinget. No, the result-oriented SV actually went away. Why does SV not participate to a greater extent in finding solutions rather than just making comments to other parties, when, among other things, they do so. the unemployed need new jobs? And why must everything be standardised at the expense of freedom of choice, diversity, to the individual human being?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e703	I don't know what Odd Holten refers to when he thinks we're a little cooperative. But it may have been my little visit to the room to Jon Lilletun, where a proposal was presented that was supposed to be a negotiation draft for SV, and it was not difficult to understand that it was not meant to be serious. It is not possible to offer a party to go on all the unsocial cuts proposed by the Government, when SV is fighting increasing differences, while offering a very modest amount of money in relation to school addition, which would not have been marked in any classroom. But if the government had come up with something that really seemed to be, we actually believe in SV that we have a great responsibility for the expectations that people have of getting the school cleaned up, among other things. because of the Christian People's Party's own efforts in the election campaign, and the despair many feel when they see that they are going the other way, and that it is being cut around. Yes, the jam would have done that we had gone far. For kids, one year is getting older every year, they get older. That's what my kids do, and everyone else's kids do. And if we can't get the school rusted up, I'm sure many parents will hit the table and demand a private school place, and rather spend some money on it than send the kids to something they think is bad. So if the Christian People's Party is serious another time, then be so good, but we don't want to play acting. We don't like that. That's how we've grown up. So in terms of what business has asked for: business, LO and NHO have asked for increased investment in research. Who is best to meet that requirement? That's SV. Business has asked for better depreciation rates. Who is the closest to fulfilling it really? That's SV. And the business community has asked that the rules of leave should not be changed. They've also got that from us. In fact, I believe that if we were to join a majority constellation, either during this magnification period or at the next, we would make sure that business knew what they had to do for four years. For this of having to go to the corridors this morning, dinner and evening twice a year, is very little value-creating work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e711	Kristin Halvorsen said in his statement that perhaps the most important thing in the budget agreement between the four parties is not numbers that stand there, but the leaders of the future. And I actually think that Kristin Halvorsen is absolutely right. It turns out by just reading the points that lead to the future. Then we see that there's a completely different social development than the Center Party wants, and I also believe a completely different social development than SV wants. I believe that both the SV and the Center are concerned that we should place greater emphasis on distribution; we should place greater emphasis on the ability of municipalities to provide services in the key areas where Kristin Halvorsen has also been involved in replying. I want to go to the budget setting, where I find a point where the Central Party and SV agree on a note, together with the Labour Party as well, and that relates to the unemployment situation. We know that unemployment is increasing. We actually have to go back to the beginning of the 1990s to find a corresponding number. Nevertheless, the government cuts the daily allowance to the unemployed, which will hit hard, and which will make it harder to come back to work. The three parties that I mentioned, which were in common about the remark about rising unemployment, also say that we have to use all the means we can to get people to work. And a current measure to put the unemployed in handy work is, for example: in the transport sector. There we know that there is free capacity, both hands and machines, and we know that the tasks are large and many. In addition, one of the primary concerns of the business community is better communications that can reduce distance costs. In order to give business priority to different areas of public communication, it is essential that they are given a better perspective. I want to challenge Kristin Halvorsen at just that: Why doesn't SV bet on what business is asking for, better way, because it's 80-90 pst. by industry, which says it is the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e718	If we were to try to get our noses up a little bit and look a little bit long-term, the biggest waste a society can carry out is unemployment. When we take from the greatest wealth we have, the most important value we have in our country, where two-thirds of our wealth are people, it's the least profitable one can do, letting people go free. That's the starting point. That is the starting point for all our economic policies. So it seems like the Center Party thinks that the most important thing to do then is to make sure that there are more roads built. But there it might be that our paths are separated a little bit. We're busy with roads in the districts. There are too many sections that are not open in winter, which are threatened by race, which are not attainable, which hinder business in the districts, but which also make it unsafe for people most to travel. That is the strength of our draft budget. Point 2 is public transport. We believe that we can't bet unilaterally on road development. Now most of the major and truly cost-effective road projects have come into the central strata in recent years, and in the central strata we should have invested in public transport, both on passenger traffic and on freight traffic. There we are very clear on prioritising increased efforts on public transport, because we are far, miles long, as both ourselves and the majority of the population have the objective of investing. Besides, I think the big challenge we have – as the Center Party has, as the SV has, and as the Workers' Party has – is now to invite people to join in on something a little bigger than themselves, to participate in something that is a little bigger than every night to lie and worry about the alcohol charges. Some people might have it as a hobby. We can't have it as a hobby. On the contrary, we must have as the really big headline that we must bet on what is going to be the common values of this society. If they don't, they're going to be confused, and the conclusion of them is going to be confused.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e732	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e735	Competitive business wear and tear. Daily, there are messages about permits, cancellations, outage and bankruptcy. Signals come from all over the country and from all industries. The unemployment rate is on the way up, and there is a drastic decline in managers' future-optimism. NHO in Rogaland published earlier in the fall a report showing that 60 pst. export companies in the county have specific plans or are considering flagging out all or part of their production. An investigation by TBL shows that over 50 pst. by the member companies consider deflagration and yet more assess de-manning. Much of our industry is located in District Norway, and if we can't reverse the trend we're now in, this can change the pattern of construction in a way that we've never seen before. Centralisation will increase, districts will be lost, and the pressure on our cities will be even greater. Since the government change, there are more than 16 000 registered unemployed. That's an increase of 28 pst. We now have the strongest growth in unemployment in over ten years. The government's track of further growth next year. Despite lost jobs and negative messages from all over the country, the Government's main response is to minimize the situation and to blame everyone else. Both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance reject the fact that the industry is struggling with something other than normal change, claiming that it is not really that bad. The Minister of Labour and Administration, who is now trying to put his theories from the Handelshögskulen into life, goes even further. He simply states that it has nothing to do with fighting for our industrial workplaces. These, as far as I know, belong to the scrapper of history. It must create new jobs, he establishes. There may be an obvious agreement with the Minister, but the government he himself has made it much harder to achieve such a goal. Through dramatic cuts in food and district policy, many of the tools that would create the new jobs have been removed. By continuing to cut SND's permissions, a no to 50,000 new jobs will be created. After the Labour Party's view, we can't afford it. For the Labour Party, full employment will always be a goal. Throughout history, we have shown that it is possible to combine business needs with the desire for good public supply. The working party agrees that a tight budget is crucial to bringing down interest and the high price of the crown. So we've created a tight budget, so we're going to spend $2 billion less than what's going to be agreed by the government party and the Progress Party tonight. Nevertheless, we have found room to improve the situation of local authorities, while at the same time adopting a much more offensive industrial policy than the government has proposed. The working party will spend SEK 2.3 billion more on concrete actions to improve its business situation and to bring about innovation and innovation. Better depreciation rules are important for business, especially in a situation where many consider deflagration to save wage costs. An offensive effort on SND and district-based measures will enable us to see the good ideas in life. Innovation is important, especially in a period when traditional businesses are struggling. Since SND was formed in 1992, 60,000 jobs have been created and secured by the means and means of SND. The cuts made by the Government have meant that an offensive policy for innovation could be reduced accordingly. The good ideas will not be realized, and the necessary workspaces will not see the light of day. In the previous period and in the election campaign, there was no way how well the maritime industries would be organized, only the Right had an impact on the budget. Now we know that these were promises that disappeared that did for the sun on the day the government offices were taken in. In addition to being the worst promise break so far in the period, this is also a strong contribution to increasing the policy debate in Norway. Hagen has done the trick of making himself a number person for all groups. At last he stands out as the industry's friend. But through the budget he shows that this is a care that didn't sting very deeply. The progress of the party's budget structure simply reinforces most of the current trends in industry. While the Norwegian economy needs cooling, the Progress Party is set up to boost petrol on the fire. The party's approach to progress will increase demand both in the public and private sectors. This is a plan for increasing wage growth, for increasing interest rates, for increasing dollar rates and for increasing industrial closures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e761	Every day we hear about jobs lost in industry, in important parts of the service sector, in school, in health services and in care services. The most important job we now have to do is turn this development around. If we're going to make it, it's not enough with a tight budget. It is also necessary to focus on building up future business, fisheries, farming, industry, forestry and in the knowledge-based service sector, in order to mention something. It is worrying that the Government does not realise that it needs a set of instruments to cope with this. Competitive framework conditions are necessary and an important instrument, but it is also necessary to put in place targeted measures such as: for research, for investment and for empowerment. In these areas, the Government is completely failing with its naïve belief that business neutrality and general framework conditions will be good enough to reverse the trend we are now facing. In the Central Party's alternative budget, we have presented a total value creation package of NOK 3.7 billion. It is necessary to strengthen business investment in this way. Of the measures contained in this package, I can mention proposals to maintain the reimbursement system and net wages for seafarers, we reject the tightening of the permit rules, we improve the depreciation rates, we remove the inheritance tax on food wealth, we strengthen the transport budget by NOK 1 billion, we increase the appropriations for SND and for research. These are absolutely necessary measures to reverse the decline in jobs that we are now seeing. In these days, the municipal budgets are adopted for the next year around the country’s many municipalities. The situation is bad. A large majority of municipalities have to make drastic cuts in e.g.: school. Classes are filled up, the number of teaching positions is reduced, and schools are laid down. We see exactly the same situation in health enterprises, which now have to use axe to bring the budgets together. This is an unworthy situation. It is not useful to hide behind the fact that the budget must be tight, because it is ultimately a question of whom the budget should be tight. It's a question of what priorities we're making. Do we want the budget to be tight for those who need care, for school students and for those who need health care, or are those who pay top taxes, or the country's shareholders, the budget to be tight? Most of us sitting in this hall pay top taxes. Some of us also own shares. I actually believe that most of us with pleasure would pay a few dollars more in taxes both on our salaries and on the shares we had to own, if it could ensure that our parents or grandparents get the care and help they need when they need it, or that our kids have a proper school to go to. For the Central Party, at least this choice is simple. We'll give a little less tax relief than the government adds. We want to increase the appropriations for health and for the municipalities. We want to reverse the unsocial cuts that hit those that have the least. This is called fair distribution. And with a commitment to business, this budget gives a completely different profile to what the government adds. Someone's trying to create the impression that the central party's budget is irresponsible, that it's not tight enough, and that we're spending too much oil money. It is true that the Center Party is spending something more oil money than what the Government is doing, but we are not asking the municipalities to finance pension costs. We see no difference in spending a little extra oil money and asking health care companies to raise overdrafts of NOK 4 billion to next year to finance operations. We're not hiding the bill for 2004, so we can avoid using a few heads of oil. When correcting for the rigour that the Government is making with the budget of the Budget Agreement with the Progress Party in order to make the budget appear to look as if no more oil money is spent than in the original budget, this is in sum a budget that is quite similar to that proposed by the Central Party and which is a much more reasonable budget. It's better to have the expenses on the table than to give the impression that you can hide the bills for next year and thus pretend that you don't use oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e790	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e793	In our work on the budget, we have had a number of consultations with organisations in the world of work, and there has been, without exception, a strong concern about the situation of Norwegian jobs as a result of high interest rates and strong exchange rates, on which Mr Enoxen himself was involved. We now see a significant deflagration of jobs and closures of businesses here to land. Not least, we see many closures in the fishing industry in the coastal regions. We get a clear message from the labour market, and it goes on: adopt a tight budget to get rid of this and bring down the interest rate! I agree with Mr Enoksen that we need tools through both SND and research. But the Central Party, which was also in the presence of Enoch, has placed less emphasis on rigour in its budget option than both what the Workers' Party has done and what the Contracting Parties have put forward. Does not the Central Party believe that the tightness of the budget in this situation is most important? And doesn't Enoxen believe that today's situation affects the districts of the worst, and that more oil money in such a situation is like pouring petrol on the fire, and that SND instruments are becoming more difficult to work in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e802	It is right, as Bendiks Harald Arnesen says, that it is necessary to do what is possible both to bring down interest rates and to get a krone price that strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian business. We need to do what is possible to avoid outsourcing workplaces. I have also met a number of business managers around this country for the past six months who say that it is necessary to adopt a tight budget. I have traveled quite a lot and met many of them. Common to all is that they have the same opinion as, to the extent that everyone has: tight means tight in relation to the public sector, while private consumption is not to be restricted. When discussing the arrangements in the budget with the same managers, they are well aware that tightness does not necessarily mean cutting public sector and leaving a very strong growth in the private sector. That's why the Center Party has given a different priority. We have prioritised a little less tax haven, among other things. to shareholders. Of course, it does not mean putting a stop to investment in business. Investments made by enterprises in relation to measures to promote competition are not subject to taxation. It is only at the moment that the funds are withdrawn from the enterprise that tax is imposed on dividends. In my opinion, it is right and proper to use something more oil money if they are used in a targeted manner, including: for investment of DKK 1 billion in the transport sector, as proposed by the Central Party. We know that there is no capacity available, and we know that it will be possible to use those funds without it being cost-effective. When we look at the sum of the bills you push or the discovery methods used in the budget agreement, for example. to provide overdrafts to healthcare companies and to allow municipalities to pay their pension obligations with loans, etc., we also know that this budget is no more strict than the Central Party has provided. When the Workers' Party chooses to use SEK 2.2 billion in pension provisions for the Post and NSB that have to be covered at a later date, it has exactly the same effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e809	The centre party has been wearing a kind of mourning coat in Norwegian politics for the time being. It is possible that it is characterized by the fact that the tilt position has been lost in most of the last years of Norwegian policy. It is possible, perhaps most on your own behalf, to go along with this grief, but, on the other hand, very many of the premises that you yourself have been making in this debate have actually been criticised in recent years as the basis for Norwegian policy. When I see that the Central Party now has some sort of SV-light in tax and tax policy, I have to say that I am amazed to record that the political party that wants to get on the district vignette in Norwegian policy has now got the bell belief that there are higher taxes and charges that should be a kind of incentive for competitive business, which we find primarily in District Norway. At a time when the international economic cycle is subduing, at a time when we see daily industrial closures, to which Enoxen refers in his post, at a time when we see the fishing industry struggling, and at a time when we again see that the centre party is turning its back on the market to buy Norwegian fish, the party has actually managed to catch up on some sort of progress party light in terms of increased use of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy. Can Odd Roger Enoksen refer to a single Norwegian professional economist who says that this is a vitamin injection for competitive business, and especially for a business that has the foreign market as its recipient for its goods and services? Or is it Siv Jensen who has become a central party adviser on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e816	It's quite right that the Center Party is in favour of a little less tax relief than what the Right Party and the Government Party are doing. Most of the tax breaks in 2002 and 2003, which the government has repeatedly challenged, have reduced the scope for action in other areas, in fact the Centre Party has helped to put in place. It was the Centre Party and the other Centre Parties that had to abolish the investment levy in order to make the situation easier for business. It was the Center Party and the other central parties that decided to remove the divisional model, thus stimulating active ownership in the business community. And it's actually not like the Center Party's alternative budget is charging business with increased costs. On the contrary, we are in favour of the tax reliefs contained in the Government's proposal, and we are increasing the relief in other areas through the measures I mentioned in my main contribution, while also targeting measures against business. In one area, we are in favour of increased taxation of business, and there is tax on dividends. It's a more fair distribution. That means that when we compensate it by strengthening the appropriations for, among other things. SND, this also has a good district profile. Most of the dividend is paid out in three municipalities, Oslo, Asker and Bærum, while most of the bet on SND and other district measures are used in many other municipalities. So this is also a geographical redistribution, and it's good distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e821	The representative, Mr Enoksen and Mr Centerpartiet, would like to present themselves as the spokespersons of the business community. However, it is now difficult to find any trace of this in the Central Party's alternative budget. There are tax sharps and tax sharps of more than DKK 3.5 billion compared to the government's proposal, and it is also cut into important projects such as Snow White. It is very difficult to see that this is a contribution to business, and it is also very difficult to see that this is a contribution that can reverse the decline that the representative of Enoxsen is talking about. Now there are some groups that are more exposed to increased unemployment and decline than others, and there are some that go faster. Norwegian seafarers are a group that is particularly exposed to international competition, where things happen very quickly. We are also constantly receiving new messages about fleet teams planning deflagration. In addition to high wages, these, apart from foreign ferries, have to contend with strange tax conditions. My question is: is the Central Party and the representative of Enoxsen agree that the net pay arrangements for all seafarers exposed to international competition should be implemented, or does the representative of Enoxsen believe that maritime industry can survive without such an action?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e831	I have not recorded that the Progress Party in this budget has contributed to greater relief for Norwegian seafarers than the Centre Party has done in its alternative budget. The party for which progress has been made in the negotiations is the same claim as the Workers' Party and as the Centre Party has had: reversal of the restrictions contained in the reimbursement scheme, and net remuneration for seafarers. It's in place. And that's what the Center Party has joined in for. So there are, in fact, other industries that need to strengthen their competitiveness in relation to the rest of the world, in the same way as the maritime industries. Having said that, I would say that the maritime industries are very important to the nation, not just because of those employed directly as seafarers, but because of the importance that the maritime industries and Norwegian seafarers have for the entire maritime cluster – for the workshop industry, for service industries within the maritime sector, etc. That's why the Center Party has prioritised this. That is why, in 1996, the Central Party took the initiative to put in place the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, who, during that great period of time, fought through this reimbursement scheme and ensured that it was maintained and continued in all the budgetary settlements entered into by the Central Party, whether in position or in opposition. We're planning to keep going, just like the Center Party has also been a proponent to get to the shipping tax, which has helped keep the shipping companies on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e838	In the debate today, several representatives of the Centre Party have emphasised that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are some and have written on several points in the budget configuration. That's right, and that's even important point. Of course, we would like to have multiples for these. The direction of these points is, as Enoch also did well in his article, a completely different from that of the government party, including the Christian People's Party. But then it becomes a little bit unclear to us whether the centre party has decided which direction the party is going to go forward. On the weekend, a matter just appeared in the newspaper Our Country in which the Enoxen would like to exchange SV with the Christian People's Party, a Christian People's Party which today has given us a clear message that they are well pleased with the government's policy and the direction in which the government is going. So on Friday, Enoksen called for a collaboration with the Workers' Party and SV. On Saturday the First Choice was the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. The representative Ranveig Frøiland referred to earlier today as a Christian People's Party as a ‘jump from bed to bed’. But it seems to me that the Center Party is also doing this exercise. However, I should not in any way suggest that the Enoxens are out of control, because so far this relationship does not come. But at least he can promise to hold his pants until he has decided which direction the party will go in, who they will cooperate with, and what policies they will pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e847	I thought the representative was well aware that for many years the Center Party has enjoyed a close cooperation with the Christian People's Party. We also intended to do that in the current magnification period. I should have liked it to have been so that we could have continued the good cooperation in the center. Christian People's Party and Left elected differently. I have good faith that the Christian People's Party one day recognizes that they have ended up in the wrong company and will be choosing differently, because I know the Christian People's Party as a party that stands on essentially the same values as they did in the time of the central government, values that will best find their solutions in a cooperation centre-left. I believe that a centre-left cooperation should have a strong centre of gravity in the center. Therefore I would like to have the Christian People's Party with. I have never concealed that the Christian People's Party is my first choice in such cooperation. Then it will be up to the Christian People's Party to show what they will do. This does not mean, of course, that I have any counter-conceptions about having SV in a cooperation either. But as I said, Christian People's Party belongs in a centre-left cooperation. I would very much like to have them with me, and I would like to see it happen already during the current growing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e854	«Heart-eight» was the tabloid exaggeration in OJ-style the leader of the Centre Party used to draw attention to the presentation of the draft budget. He thus provided a rhetorical plan for the budget debate in the media. In today's debate I have not heard such tabloid exaggerations. That's good, and the reason is that such exaggerations turned out to be what they were: an exaggeration. In the Christian People's Party, we are satisfied with the profile of the adopted budget. We are showing willingness to care for the poor in Norway and the developing world through a poverty plan and increased unhelpfulness. We want to secure jobs through a tight budget, as the business community wants. We also want increased freedom of choice for families with increased cash support, lower parental benefit in kindergartens and more kindergartens. The rhetoric of the centre party is all the more odd when we look at the central court agreement. I do not experience any eager centre party rapporteurs defending the nursery agreement. On the other hand, it has created uncertainty in Kommune-Norway. I and the Christian People's Party defend the bet on kindergartens because it gives increased freedom of choice, and it pushes the kindergartens up on the priority list in the municipalities. The nursery parties also brought a proper retreat to the world of reality by approaching the Government's average price over the maximum price from 1 August. That was good and right. The rhetoric of the centre party comes in a strange light when the centre party believes tax-free kindergarten is good distribution policy. In today’s business last Friday, it was stated that a chief executive can save 25 000 kroner. And the Tax Payer Association says this is unsocial. Is this expression for the social profile of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e863	If the Central Party's description of the budget was an exaggeration, I must wonder that the Christian People's Party's representatives in the Chamber today have been primarily concerned with describing the positive that the Progress Party has succeeded in reversing a good part of the unsocial cuts proposed by the Government in its budget. These are the changes in the budget that most of the representatives of the Christian People's Party have spent speaking time commenting on, as Anita Apelthun Seele did in a reply to Carl I. Hagen, where she almost thanked the Progress Party for helping to correct at least the most unsocial cuts. It seems that the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party are using exactly the same criticism of the budget in relation to the fact that the municipalities have to cut in school, cut in the care of the elderly, have to cut in most areas. They use exactly the same criticism as the rapporteurs of the Central Party and as we of the Central Party here in Stortinget have used. So a few words about the nursery arrangement. The childcare arrangement contributes to a more reasonable childcare space for parents. It's a social measure. This allows people to spend most of their time in kindergarten. Then, of course, it's not all the elements of the kindergarten agreement that the Center Party is just as happy, just as the Christian People's Party claims not to be as happy about everything that's in the budget proposal to the Government. However, in terms of the tax advantage now granted, it is significantly less valuable when the maximum price of NOK 1500 is introduced. Then we're talking about completely different tax savings for those who have the highest wages, than what you have with today's babysitting costs. So then it's like an average price, like Arne Lyngstad now calls for and as the government has suggested, according to the government itself, is very difficult to control. The nursery agreement says we're going to have a maximum price. It can be controlled, it benefits parents and children, and it will not be a problem for municipalities when funding and the scheme comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e870	Then this string shift is also changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e873	The cooperative government is based on an ideology that puts freedom of choice, diversity and the individual human being in the centre. We want to show the individual human trust. We don't believe in wood making A4 solutions downwards on people's heads. We want to give the most to those who need the most. Christian People's Party is a family and care party. In the government position, we have the opportunity to get this policy into concrete action. The Christian People's Party is in a budget that aims to secure and create jobs. Security for the economy and jobs is the very basis for the well-being of others and others. It is important to put individuals at the centre and create safe jobs and thus ensure the basis for future welfare. For the Christian People's Party, it is important both to ensure well-being through good conditions for jobs and industry and to distribute well-being by making good arrangements for those who need it the most. Christian People's Party is a family and care party. Our family policy is made visible both through a strong commitment to more and cheaper kindergartens, while the loss of the childcare supplement is fully compensated for by the cash beneficiaries. In this way the freedom of choice of the individual family is not impaired. The Christian People's Party is a care party. For us, targeted measures to prevent poverty and to help people out of poverty are important both in their own country and outside their borders. The poverty challenge in the world is enormous. A poor African has a consumption of NOK 4 a day, while we use almost NOK 500. 1.2 billion people live for less than one dollar a day in extreme poverty. Every seventh person in the world suffers from hunger. Unfortunately, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations recently reports that the fight against poverty is heavier than ever. While there was an annual reduction of 2.5 million people in poverty each year up to the year 2000, there is now an increase in very many areas. New estimates say that six million children under the age of five die of hunger every year. For the Christian People's Party, this must stand as our global challenge number one – something else is nothing less than immoral and a political declaration of failure. Assistance in the form of transfers of funds from rich to poor countries has been the main instrument in the fight against international poverty for the past 30–40 years. The assistance is absolutely necessary and needs to be increased. In spring 2002, the co-operation administration launched an action plan to combat poverty in the south. It provides the basis for a comprehensive Norwegian development policy with the fight against poverty at the centre. This is followed by an increase in assistance of more than 800 million. kr in the year’s budget. Solidarity with the world's poorest has always been important for the Christian People's Party. As one of the richest countries in the world, we have a duty to help these people. It's about care and next love. The budget we are about to adopt now represents a record investment in helping the poorest in the world. In a tight budget, it is the development aid that has become the winner. The Christian People's Party wants a fairer world, and shows it with action – not just with words. Nothing is more solidarity and social than to contribute to a fairer development for the poorest countries in the world. There has been a lot of attention related to the Christian People's Party in connection with this state budget. Many outside the party have also described how painful and difficult we must have it. Maybe it'll be a good idea to hear what we're saying ourselves. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the policy now adopted in the context of the State budget, with a focus on safer jobs, with an increased focus on health, and in particular psychiatry, a strong and record increase in aid and, consequently, in poverty reduction, with a focus on collective and environmental action. This is about the values of the Christian People's Party on which its policy is based!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e914	The criticism from the opposition has ceased, was the message from the Prime Minister tonight. But then the Prime Minister cannot have followed in the posts that have been held here today. The budget is as unsolvable today as it was before the conciliation was concluded. And to the extent that you're going to try to appoint a loser in this budget, I want to refer to the school sector. The government parties have stated very clearly that they want to make the world's best school, but the budget that has been presented contains very few contributions to achieving this goal, and we regret that. The future of the school depends on common commitments and priorities. We all agree that a strong public school is a prerequisite for the development of the welfare state. The current cut in the school leisure system is directly irresponsible, it doesn't provide security for our little ones, it's not an investment in the future, and it's an increase in the taxation of the small children's families. If we look at the argument, I would say that it is extremely thin: the budget is being cut because of the overall budget. It is a fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party have always thought that the school leisure system is irrelevant and something that the public should not finance. But for me, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agree that we can get the key children back is strange and disappointing. We have heard the Prime Minister repeatedly say that the Labour Party's alternative is not a good family policy. Maybe this is just to get away from the focus that the Christian People's Party is no longer the kindergarten party. But how Bondevik can defend what he himself has proposed is incomprehensible to me. For what is the consequence of the cut in the school leisure scheme? The Minister of Finance believes that this will lead to an increase in the proportion of equity of DKK 150 per year. a child. Several municipalities report that they have to cut the SFO offer and cancel the dividend by several hundred kroner a year. We know that many children can be excluded or given a worse offer, and that parents can in the long run be forced to work part-time. Instead, the Government and the Advance Party have chosen to invest in a massive increase in private schools and tax havens for those who have the most. And this comes from parties that went to elections at a better school. The progress party has often pointed out how bad things are in public school. Now the party has come into a power position where they really have the opportunity to show a responsible face and correct the worst unsocial cuts. The progress party has clearly put its plate on the budget: we know that it has become more private schools, it has been cut in the small child supplement, and there has been a smaller annual fee on the caravan and motorcycle. It is clear that a new course was not given priority, rather on the contrary. The government has chosen. They have chosen the Progress Party. This also has consequences for private schools. The result is less acceptance criteria and a strange combination of better quality in public schools with an increase in the number of private schools. Adult training is also on the decline. This is a statutory right, but what does it help when the Government and the Advance Party through their liquidation ensure that 30 000 students who are studying may have to quit because they are no longer receiving public support? In an age of increasing unemployment and the need for retraining, this is not a smart, purely socio-economic one – yes, I will describe it in one word: short-sighted. It's short-thinking what the government is doing in adult education. We know that many depend on the support offered by the state in this field. Many now have to stop, because they can't afford to continue, and because the excesses are going to rise. I believe that this proposal is also discrimination against women, as the average distance learning student is a woman between 30 and 50 years of age who combines studies with work or family, and who lives on the outskirts. Not everyone lives near a university or a college. Finally, government parties are trying hard to convince us that this budget has a good social profile. But it's not a good social profile to increase the proportion of SFOs, to increase the costs for secondary school students, to allow those involved in adult education to get fewer and more expensive offers, and to defuse students with less in scholarships. In the end, this is a budget that really means less to vulnerable groups and tax havens for caravans and motorcycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e949	Jens Stoltenberg described earlier today precisely the problems of large revenues from the extraction of natural resources. In Norway, oil revenues have led to a 2pst growth in earnings over the last six to seven years. higher than our trading partners. The public demand for labour has pushed wages up. Until the summer of 2000, this wage-earning weakening of competitiveness was masked by falling krone prices. Since then, the krone price has increased, and the krone price has now been higher than ever since 1986. The combination of high prices and demand failures in many export markets creates problems for competitive business. The government has joined the most widely available medicine: a tight government budget, which limits demand in the economy and provides the basis for lower interest rates and weaker dollar rates. Thanks to our high standard of living, Norway remains a high-cost country. At the same time, we are increasingly being challenged in a global arena. The knowledge we are alone in today has others tomorrow. Developments are accelerating, and with lower costs, others can take over the tasks we are carrying out today. High innovation rates are therefore important, not only to increase value creation and wealth, but also to maintain it. Developments call for conversion, but also offer great opportunities for countries that are doing well to develop the climate for innovation and entrepreneurship. If we are to succeed in the future, we need to develop and translate our high level of competence into smart, high-tech products and knowledge-based services. We need to create an innovative Norway where ideas are tested, where entrepreneurs are allowed to expand and find new solutions. I don't know, the ideas and the fire cells have to get bigger. Within a tight budget, the Government therefore places heavy emphasis on education and research. More funding is allocated to higher education and more to basic research. In addition to extending the tax credit for companies' research and development expenditure to all enterprises now, we propose to strengthen the Research Fund by DKK 3 billion and increase the funding for industrial research by 15 pst. The removal of the investment tax and the double taxation of dividends increase access to capital for new projects. Higher depreciation rates on machinery make it easier for companies to carry out automation processes and invest in new technologies. The introduction of tax credits for business research and development expenditure stimulates research and improves the framework conditions for knowledge-based enterprises. This is an important contribution to strengthening the adaptability of business and making Norway an attractive investment area. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is going in the opposite direction and is proposing to reintroduce double taxes on dividends, proposing to increase the wealth tax, tighten the option tax and tighten the sharing model. The increase in taxes in relation to the government's budget proposal shows that the party does not take seriously its ever-talk concern for the development of industry and industry. The most serious thing is the workers' recognizable offensive against Norwegian private ownership, and the tax increases reduce investment capacity and prevent innovation and necessary business conversion. This makes Norwegian industrial workplaces even more vulnerable to high prices and high compensation of employees than they would otherwise have been. A policy that directly affects the access to capital and investment in business actually represents a long-term exit option for competitive business. There has been a declared policy by the Workers' Party to reduce the ability of business to build up equity. We can see the result. The starting point for maintaining and increasing value creation and wealth is good. We have innovative and competitive businesses and business environments. We have rich natural resources, proximity to important markets and experience in competing in an international market. We have a high level of education, and we have good research environments. At my discretion, the state budget provides a good basis for exploiting these advantages that we have. In the field of sectoral policy, the Government implements an industrial policy that strengthens the competitiveness and innovation capacity of enterprises. The reactions of the trade organisations both before and after the conciliation have been clearly positive. Yes, at least I haven't seen anyone who wanted to replace that option with the total option from others. I don't remember one having improved as many of the policy framework conditions as one has experienced in this two-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e968	I would first like to remind you that the Labour Party will actually vote for a bill that is 2.2 billion tighter than the scheme for which the government party will go in. In general, the Minister of Industry has used this last year to try to minimize the serious situation in Norwegian industry. It is possible, if one adds the goodwill, that one today was somewhat more concerned about the situation. I hope so. The government that we now have has had tax relief and so-called business neutrality as its most important, not to say the only tool. So far, we must be able to say that this policy has not given rise to the warning. Unfortunately, most arrows point in the wrong direction. I call for a more offensive industrial policy and that we get clear targets for it. As far as I know, the Minister of Industry is a thoughtful fan of the EU. Unfortunately, it takes some time before we get there, but it does not, of course, prevent us from driving a certain kind of EU adaptation. In fact, unlike the Government, the EU has plans to implement an active industrial policy. Through the so-called Lisbon process, the EU has ten distinct objectives and focus areas, which they will use to achieve. I'm very concerned about what's going to happen in Norway if we don't do the same process and try to have the same goals as our neighbouring countries, so I could imagine that the Minister of Industry said a few words about what the Government is responding to the developments we see in the EU now. So the government is inviting an income policy cooperation, and that's what I thought was very positive. But such cooperation must be based on trust, and that trust must be created. I find it difficult to see that the government's proposals for worsening the rules of leave, cutting unemployment, increasing overtime and threatening to cut the sick pay system are suitable for building such trust. Will the Minister of Industry enter into a dialogue, including with the employees' side, to gain the necessary trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e979	The representative Aksensens began his line by pointing out that the Workers' Party has an arrangement that is 2 billion kr tighter than the government's, which would thus affect the underlying expenditure growth in a favourable direction. I think it depends on what accountant glasses you wear when you express this. With regard to the Minister of Industry's repeated de minimis approach, as it is said, it is not my job to control the headlines in the Norwegian press. But it has to be possible, even when you're in a situation where there are definitely negative trends, to have certain shades. Now I know from experience that in this house there are only two positions, there are off- and push buttons that apply. Either it's Ragnarok, or you're on your way into eternal bliss. I think the situation is so that the answer lies somewhere in the middle. There are significant negative trends to be taken seriously. However, I believe that the analyses of why the situation is as it is are are severalfold wider thanpointing to nutritional neutrality or non-nutritional neutrality. With regard to relations with the EU and the fact that the Minister of Industry is a well-intentioned EU member, I have to say that in relation to everything that has happened since the Norwegian people with a narrow margin chose to keep us out in 1994, there is much to suggest that this should have been a different result, not least in relation to what is happening to business opportunities. A country like Norway, with 4.5 million. human beings, shall be able to reach a market of 450 million. human beings. That we need a market proximity and connection that is something other than what we have today, I think is relatively obvious. As regards dialogue with the social partners, it is well described by the Prime Minister in his statement and it will be followed up in a relevant manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e992	The President will state that, as far as the test of quality of the work of the Grand Duchy is concerned, it is at the expense of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e995	It is gratifying that industrial and industrial policy should once again be put on the political agenda in Norway. On the one hand, there are a number of researchers, business organisations and trade unions who say Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry are wearying, on the other hand shutting down the business and, on the other, moving out of the country. On the other hand, we have the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and some people in the Department who are trying to dedramatize by saying that today we have 10,000 more industrial jobs in the country than we had a year ago. But what is the actual situation — that shows all the reports — is that in the last 20 years we have had the largest deindustrialisation in Norway of all the western industrialized countries, despite the fact that we have had much lower interest rates and much lower interest rates during periods, etc. Wouldn't it have been a good idea to go to the companies and the company owners and ask: what would it be for you to be willing to expand your business, hire more people and stay in Norway? We would then be told that the level of the levy is sky high, that we have a tax model that kills initiative, that we have a capital drier in this country, and that we have Europe's highest sick leave – along with a couple of other countries, but there is something about it. In addition, there is a form fields that are very hard to deal with, especially for smaller businesses, and which the Council of State wants to reduce by 1.2 pst. This year. What's logical and clear is that you have to go to meet the businesses in these areas, and not just talk about a tight budget. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What does the Government intend to do, except for the tight budget, so that entrepreneurs and industrialists will again see it reasonable and attractive to invest in Norway and create jobs in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1002	It may have been a timely reference to the President when it came to describing the Greatness's work, but at least I record that some of the members of the Greatness have a tendency to use only two levels of the button for describing the situation, it's either by or on. Of course, you're in your full right to do that. As regards the deflagration of holdings, it is quite clear that there is one main reason, regardless of industry, for this to happen. Of course, it has to do with the level of costs, and it's not just happening in Norway, it's happening in the entire Western world. There is a deflagration of labour-intensive production to countries with a much lower cost level. That's the way it is, I think we just have to take note. So it's quite right, as the representative Hedstrom says, that in the last 30 years there has been a decline in employment in industry. It's natural when you look at the automation processes that are going on. There has also been a transition to a more service-based industry. It's not necessarily an indication in itself that something's wrong. What becomes our special challenge in Norway now is if we get a take-off in industrial employment that differs significantly from that in the rest of Western Europe. So the question was what you're going to do to make the entrepreneurs get better relationships. Then it's absolutely fundamental to ask why it's so that people who are in well paid jobs, who have 100 pst. sickness pay schemes, which have leave arrangements, which have many welfare benefits, do not start an enterprise to realise its ideas. There is no doubt that in a country like ours there are many schemes that counteract and reverse incentives for starting up own businesses. I definitely believe that there's too little obvious gain by starting to be self-employed rather than employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1013	I want to give the Minister of Industry three challenges. The first one goes on this with broadband. When you travel around Norway, you meet a lot of dubious business people as well as others who say that broadband technology does not reach them. Even though you have two, three, and four networks that are parallel, when it's not up to those who need it. We experience that different departments work with their plans, and we also have our own companies that build up. My Challenge No. One is: what does the Minister of Industry do to coordinate broadband policy in Norway, so that we achieve the goals set by the Storting? My second challenge is on this district billion. We in SV are very pleased that we have got to this district billion together with the Government. We see cooperation in this area as promising. But I have a challenge: when we get to the facilities in the new year, will the Minister of Industry then make sure that we get a device that is so that we really reach the economically weak areas in a targeted way, which makes them get the help they need? Will the Minister of Economic Affairs help to listen to people who have experience in areas where there is a lack of nutrition, so that arrangements are actually made that are good? My third challenge is what the representative Hedstrom was about, namely industry. We often wonder if you have a strategy in the Minister of Industry's office or in the Government. Do you have a strategy to reduce Norwegian industry, as some members of the government have claimed, that we should not have so much industry in Norway? Is that a strategy? Do you have a strategy to build up or preserve Norwegian industry, if any? We who grew up with the Olsen band, knew that always when they went bad as bad, Egon Olsen had a plan. Does the Council of State Gabrielsen have a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1022	I don't think we're joining that comparison with other people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1025	I think it's natural to take the last one first. What was typical of the Olsen plans is comparable to many political plans. It was very different from what you had in mind in the plans. I think that will also apply in this area, because at the moment you're done putting such a plan, reality has changed, and the plan may not be worth the paper it's written on. But back to the questions in order — broadband first: Many in the districts and also in many places in the central districts point this out with broadband and the possibility of connection. Now it's like approx. 60 pst. Norwegian people have access to broadband. By the end of 2003, around 80 pst. of the Norwegian people and businesses have the opportunity to connect to broadband. Then you have to ask the question, why is it so that it's just 11 pst. of those who have the opportunity to connect, who have done so? I think that has something to do with the content of this. The price, what you have to pay per. The month for this is not a deterrent. But a lot could suggest that you choose to give up anyway because the gain of it does not defend the price you put on this. We work along two lines, both to improve content and to continue increasing connectivity. To the district billion: we come in the context of the review of all the instruments we now have, also to mention this and make a device on the one that should appear to be sensible, given what it is going to help. The representative Ryan asked if we would listen to people. Well, we definitely do that, and we do that all the time. We travel around almost every day to hear what is the need for the means we're going to use. There is no doubt that the most important thing will always be the general framework conditions, but also the special one is to arrange so that we get the most employment out of each krona.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1039	The progress party wants a lower, simpler and more conservative tax system than what we have today. In our alternative state budget, we have taken seriously and highlighted the challenges that Norway is facing. Numbers from the United States, Asia and Europe are essentially moving in the same direction, i.e. the economic outlook is very uncertain in the future. It is obvious that such a weak international development can also affect Norway to a much greater extent than what we have seen now. Therefore, it makes sense to make some improvements to the framework conditions that will make us better equipped to meet such developments. The Norwegian state currently has a very good economy. At the same time, we have an unreasonably high tax level, which is among the highest in the world. A high level of taxation and a complex and poorly prudent tax system act in many ways as true in economic welfare development. It reduces productivity growth and thus also future value creation, while at the same time it costs unnecessary to manage both for taxpayers and for the public. An unnecessarily high level of taxation will also result in a greater flow of capital to the rest of the world, as well as a greater dependence on public transfers, with the negative consequences. Therefore, the Progress Party sees tax relief and a simpler and more prudent tax system as one of the most important provisions for a good and stable development of wealth. So in our alternative state budget, we have proposed taxes for almost $10 billion more than what the government has done. The biggest part of our tax package is that we increase the person deduction by a total of NOK 8400 in Class 1 and NOK 16800 in Class 2. In isolation, this tax will amount to NOK 2 352 in classes 1 and NOK 4 704 in class 2 and will of course mean the most for those with the lowest income. In our opinion, it is also those who need the most tax relief. We also found that it is directly wrong to use administrative resources to tax them with the absolute lowest incomes. That is why we have proposed in our budget that the so-called free-card limit be set at NOK 50 000. Adjustment of the special levy for the elderly and disabled from NOK 17 640 to NOK 25 000 has also been proposed to strengthen the economic situation of these groups. We have also suggested setting the peak tax entry point to NOK 360 000 in Class 1 and NOK 413,000 in Class 2. This will involve a tax relief of up to 2,605 class 1 and 6,615 class 2. Tax equality should also be an important principle for more than the Progress Party. That's why we're in favour of Norwegian seafarers having the same framework conditions as in those countries it's natural to compare us with. The untimely tax tightening introduced into the 2002 budget for company carers is also removed in our alternative budget. According to our arrangement, everyone with a fortune of less than 850 000 kroner in Class 1 and 880000 in Class 2 is to be exempt from State property taxes. This proposal will also facilitate a reduction in tax-motivated arrangements in order to avoid taxes on wealth. The Progress Party's alternative state budget is a well-thought-out, well-worked and holistic budget that will benefit most people in terms of better purchasing power and in terms of greater value creation for the future. We are also confident that our alternative government budget would provide a better basis for lower price rise, higher productivity growth, better labour supply and thus lower interest rates than the government's government budget will provide. Now, however, we are in the situation that our alternative state budget, despite its good qualities, will unfortunately not have multiples. That is why we will, in a subsidiary way, join the improved budget of the Government Party. After the rounds of negotiations with the Progress Party, this is a budget which, after all, goes in the right direction, from the Progress Party's point of view. And as we evaluate it this time, it's better with a small step in the right direction than with a socialist government with extra taxes and more bureaucracy and thus a long step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1071	The government's proposal for a government budget was a bad message to those who had hoped for a fairer distribution of our country's rich resources. As we went behind the words in the budget for health and social affairs, it revealed surprising and unsocial cuts, although many would understand that money to continue to be taxed to those with high incomes had to be financed. As the government's policy appeared in the draft budget, those who had the least, those who were most vulnerable in a unstable labour market, the sick and the disabled, would pay the bill for more prosperity for the wealthy. This should be done by removing the possibility of free medicine for the elderly and the disabled, a historical increase in the excess of sickness, the taxation of fixed-term unpaid pay, lower unpaid pay, the possibility for the disabled to have income in addition to social security of up to one basic amount, i.e. approximately. DKr 54 000, without having to pay their pension, cut into various facilities for the disabled, such as support for work and education trips, cut into tombs, etc. Some of these show a value profile that can contribute to further isolation and loss of self-respect in both disabled persons, pensioners and others who are entitled to receive their share of welfare cake. I'm upset when the government's poverty profile is actually tightening up the benefits of the disabled and other social-securityed. The same type of curtailment takes place in the day-to-day allowance scheme for the unemployed. Such proposals strengthen poverty among the unemployed and the unemployed. Such proposals are based on a suspicion to social security recipients that they will not work, and low benefits are used to get people to work. The government ignores the fact that we have a labour market that excites workers, especially those who do not have full performance, and also ignores the fact that most people will work. The Labour Party has proposed to eliminate as far as possible such unsocial proposals both in its alternative budget and in budgetary negotiations. The economic situation of hospitals is worrying, requiring measures far beyond what the Government has foreseen. The closure of offers and hospital services may be the result, which the Government has probably foreseen as no money has been put into hospital budgets to capture a very costly wage settlement and severe exceptional pension costs. For me, it is totally incomprehensible that the government only takes a retired position in a situation that requires action. The Labour Party is promoting proposals of 530 million. kr more for health enterprises, and perhaps even more important is the proposal for a government loan or fund scheme to enable municipalities and health enterprises to cover pension obligations. The purpose of such a scheme is to enable municipalities, county councils and health enterprises to borrow funds from the State, i.e.: draw on the fund when the pension costs are above the average, while they are to be reimbursed when the pension costs are below the average. This means that, among other things: the level of patient treatment should not be affected by the fluctuations on the stock exchange, which, if this is the case, is directly unethical. The working party does not want it to be more expensive to be ill. That is why we have proposed to keep self-interest at the current level, while we believe that the new Roof 2 scheme is positive and needs to be further developed, so that it captures the difficult realities that many chroniclers and disabled people will still have. The Labour Party has also followed up in its draft budget what we adopted at our national meeting a short time ago, namely to reduce the reduction in the pension for married and cohabiting persons, so that these receive an increase in the basic pension from 1.5 G to 1.6 G. Then we have to put an end to the underregulation of the basic amount. That is why we have clearly stated that the basic amount and pensions should be regulated at least in line with wage developments, and we also propose that the reduction from settlement in 2002 should be resumed before a settler settles in spring 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1093	The financial debate so far has sometimes contributed to drawing new patterns of cooperation in Norwegian policy, and then it is important for me to stress that the Left is a social-liberal party and a bourgeois centre party. The draft budget presented by the Co-operation Government on 3 October is just a central civil budget, not a so-called right-wing budget, such as the parties on the left-hand side of the boring attempt to create an impression of it. The government’s budget takes social responsibility and prioritises small businesses and environmental policies – issues that are important for the Left and that are important for the Government as a whole. The draft budget is adapted to a difficult economic situation, and it is an important contribution to reducing the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates to ensure Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. The proposal of the Workers' Party to introduce double taxation on dividends and new restraints in the divisional model leads to the opposite of what the Party claims, namely to ensure business and employment. These proposals are not ‘a policy for creating and sharing’, as the parliamentary leader, Jens Stoltenberg, said in his main speech earlier today. The proposals of the Labour Party discourage the establishment of, and investment in, new enterprises in Norway and contribute to a massive shift of labour from private to public sector. Such a development does not want the Left. Politics is about prioritizing. That's exactly what the government is doing. We give priority to the poorest both in Norway and in a global perspective. Despite a tight budget where painful cuts have been made, there is a historical investment in public transport in and around the big cities – with 590 million. kr in increase. The left said before the budget was presented that our main demand was an increased commitment to public transport. That's what we've done. And it's vital that we get a good living environment in our biggest cities. There is no single factor that distributes more unfairly between those who have much, and those who have little, than high interest rates. Therefore, it has always been crucial for the Government to keep a tight budget to dampen the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. The order of the economy is priority No. 1 for the left. A tight budget is also the main measure to ensure a strong and competitive business life throughout Norway and to secure jobs, not least in District Norway. The government budget has a strong social profile. Combating poverty at home and abroad, tackling drug use, combating domestic violence, tackling trafficking in women and children and strong growth in psychiatry are among the main measures. For small businesses, the Left's victory in the fight against the complicated investment tax, which has now finally been removed, and the removal of a number of meaningless customs rates will bring great relief both in money and in form work. Here we deliver a targeted commitment to those who want something, to innovation and future optimization. We make an important contribution to the businesses and jobs we will live on in the future. There is reason to recognise the Progress Party for constructive willingness to reach a budgetary agreement that the Party provides its subsidiary support. In contrast to other lots, the Party of Advances has allowed its own party interests to take second place. It says respect. As in most negotiations, there are not all the elements of a final agreement we are just as pleased with. But as a whole, the government's adjusted arrangement, to which the Progress Party gives its subsidiary support, in my and the Left's eyes, will provide the country with a good budget. It is correct and positive that the agreement has increased the minimum deduction from 23 pst. until 24 pst. This implies that approx. one million taxpayers receive a reduced tax, and that is a step towards a flat tax, as the Left wishes. It is good for industry and agriculture that depreciation rates for machinery increase from 15 pst. until 20 pst. And it is good that the local economy is strengthened, and that the Husbank's loan framework is increased as part of the agreement with the Progress Party. If this is what some people call the horrific ‘Right-dominated policy’, it is OK for me. Never have the complainants from the opposition been higher than this autumn. But behind the powerful use of words, there has been little political substance. Never have we spent more money than we do now, and rarely has there been more targeted use of the funds that politicians have at our disposal. I believe that the Norwegian policy and climate in the social debate are served with a somewhat greater degree of soberness at the next crossroads, as the Prime Minister was also at present. It should be a common objective for all of us to contribute to realistic expectations of what it is actually possible to achieve within the framework of a responsible budget, and it should be a common objective to avoid unnecessary black-painting of the society in which we live. That game we've seen in the fall, makes political parties lose credibility. This is primarily a problem for Norwegian democracy. On behalf of the Left, I am pleased to have been involved in taking responsibility and being part of a majority of a budget that leads to a better and more modern environmental policy, which provides a better framework for entrepreneurs and small businesses, and takes social responsibility for those who fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1119	I note that the leader of the Left, on behalf of the Left, is very pleased with the draft budget that is in place. But Sponheim is also Minister of Agriculture, and in this way he is perhaps one of the state councils that have the greatest responsibility for regional development, development and rural life – it is through agricultural policy. That's exactly why we spend 12-13 billion dollars a year on an active agricultural policy – not only to produce safe and sufficient food, but also to take care of our districts. There is now an agricultural policy that leads to a large degree to structuralisation and fewer jobs, but in addition, this government is putting forward a budget that is fairly tight on all that is involved in regional development. There has been a lot of cutbacks in SND in recent years and everything that has to do with regional development. It is not reversed, and then through budgetary agreements with the Progress Party it will cut an additional 100 million. on what is going to happen in regional development, precisely within the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, simply to see to it that we have living settlements and housing and jobs around us. Some cuts I'll almost call petty play. This applies, for example: the cut in the conversion aid to help offset the costs incurred by the slaughterhouse for meat inspection. The cut was actually $3 million. kr, but this will nevertheless lead to major consequences for the small slaughterhouses. The next point I'm wondering, at least when there's an agricultural minister from the Left, who claims to be pursuing a very good environmental policy, is that a cutter in favour of forest culture, for the care and planting of forests, when one knows that the forest has enormous value in environmental terms and for long-term value creation out in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1130	There were many issues, and many of them we'll probably come back to when the trade union budgets are going to be discussed. Let me grab the main lines. Firstly, it is clear that in many of these areas of rural policy, which are based on agricultural policy, and which are part of the economic aspects of rural policy, the Government stands for a different – and I would say a more modern – line. This means breaking some of the long-term trends and, as we know, leading to a sharp decline in many of these industries. For example, I want to do this. Remembering that we had not provided a tight budget, it would mean a few hundred million for agriculture alone. And if we put the municipalities in the districts on top of this, we're talking about hundreds of millions if we were to get an interest rate increase. And it's important sizes to take care of for the districts as well. In addition, through the agreement, we have been able to strengthen the local economy, which is an important part of regional development. I'll stop at the last part of the line. I think it's important to answer that thoroughly, because it's also illustrative for a little bit of this conversion. There has been a lot of screaming around it in the direct appropriations for the state budget, except for the agricultural agreement, which goes to forest culture – there are some tens of millions now gone. At the same time, we have made a dramatic improvement in the so-called forest tax system, which means that the forest owner who hedges the forest will get a very strong tax advantage by using parts of the value one then takes out of the forest, to plant again. It will stimulate maximum, income and value creation to obtain the state contribution through the tax benefits. If there is something Norwegian forestry and districts need now, it is that it is cut, and that forestry again becomes a profitable industry. It's not today. Depreciation rates and reduced investment charges reduce the real cost of forestry, and forest culture is a consequence of cutting. It's a modern and new way of thinking about forest policy, which I think more people will appreciate when someone understands what's happening now in conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1139	I would also like to address the main area of responsibility of the Council of State, agricultural policy. What we are experiencing today is that the space within which the Norwegian farmer has to move is getting narrower because food imports are increasing, traditional exports are out, regulation exports are being reduced and borderline leakage is increasing. And in the middle of this, we read in the newspaper in the daytime that the Food Agency detects one food scandal after another, and that the Customs Agency seizes large batches of smugglers and uncontrolled food. All of this reduces confidence in the supply of food products we have in Norway. Then we have a through-regulated system with a trading law. Cooperation on markets and prices is permitted in Norway and it contributes to a much higher price level of Norwegian agricultural products than they would otherwise have been. Not enough: you can't guarantee in these Christmas seasons, despite all the regulations, Norwegian pig ribs for Christmas! I read in an Eastern newspaper today that the Agricultural Control now has to poke holes on the sky-high customs protection and import pig ribs into Norway. So in spite of these 12-14 billion dollars, we grant every year over the state budget: why can't we cope with this negative development for Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1146	Let me start by sharing the reality description that Hedstrom's representative gives, that the space for action is getting smaller and smaller. If we do not succeed in creating new initiatives, new successes, new production areas and new income opportunities for farmers as entrepreneurs, it may seem quite dark to many communities. That's what it's all about, with boldness to get the farmers to understand that being a businessman, owning a lot of resources, gives many more opportunities than many have thought of. It is possible to do something more than that father and grandfather did. It's a lot of the business policy in agriculture. These include: to find product areas with different price elasticity from that of food and traditional agricultural production in order to achieve a good economy. That is what we are doing in agricultural policy now. I also think the representative Hedstrøm has seen that there is a change of pace in some of these areas. Then I clearly share the opinion that what we now experience from food scandals is something we would like to be in addition to, and that tells us very clearly that selling food is also about selling trust. It is important to stress that, as far as it is now discovered, this shows that there are errors and omissions that have been made at the store and not at the manufacturer’s premises, which have in due course delivered good and correct raw materials. Here, I think it's important to separate these things. There is no other job to do now than to restore trust and make sure that the kind of slendrian that we have seen does not take place. But I would like to remind you that in the long term it is about contributing to a diversity of Norwegian foods based on increased competition. Increased competition is the main contribution to increased diversity. Then I also register that it seems to be missing both Norwegian pig ribs and eggs for Christmas. It is not possible for the Minister of Agriculture to do anything in the very short term, but at least we have sent out to the hearing increased concession limits in those production areas, which means that next Christmas we can be sure that we have enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1155	By next Christmas it will be better!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1158	The left has played an important role in Norwegian policy by being a green party. I'm worried about what's going on right now, because with the subscription they've now given to the Progress Party on the future, you can wonder what you're going to get out of it. For there are miles between the Progress Party and the Left in environmental policy. I want to take some of what Sponheim said in the previous reply. We need to find new success factors for agriculture, which is Sponheim's responsibility. Then I'll challenge on two things. One is environmentally friendly energy – bioenergy. Can Sponheim explain the sense of what happened in the budget agreement now, where one cut at Enova? There can be many environmentally friendly jobs in the districts. These are the niches that have to be used by those who have the opportunity to do it, so that you can produce something that is more environmentally friendly than what you use now. But with the line that the government is putting on now, we can shoot a white stick after this. The other applies to organic farming. In this area, it's sneaking to the goal we've set, at ten pst., which we've been doing over the five years that I've been on the Stortinget. It's not a bet. People are about to give up finding organic food in the shops. My soul will soon find it nowhere. This is a very important niche that Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers should be given the opportunity to implement. But when the government chooses to cooperate with the Progress Party, you will have no chance at all of fulfilling any of this. So in what way and in what areas does the Minister of Agriculture see that agriculture and the countryside should be allowed to develop anything? Is it by dividing the properties only into cabin and leisure facilities, and in some way being allowed to be a holiday colony for city people? Or are they allowed to use the resources they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1167	Representatives should use the Council of State title when addressing the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1170	I believe that the representative Karin Andersen is very right that there is a milestone between the Progress Party and the Left in environmental policy. I believe that both the Progress Party and the Left recognize that and can stand by. But that also means that we're able to make budgetary settlements, and both parties can live with it. For the Left, it is never relevant to go on chords with what we stand for in environmental policy. Then the representative travels a very interesting theme – bioenergy. Now the representative says that the important thing about bioenergy is cut off at Enova. I understand that there is uncertainty about whether it should be restored or not – it is now. But what is it important to get more bioenergy? It must be to give framework conditions that make the propulsion of bioenergy profitable. What have we experienced this winter? Well, there's pure clondy to get by and other bioenergy. What's the reason for that? That's actually the price of other energy. The most important means of achieving bioenergy and making it profitable is that the alternatives, namely electricity and oil, and what they may be, are more expensive alternatives. Today, in fact, producing bioenergy for a forest owner is one of the most profitable things you can do, with a high hourly rate. We see that the market is growing. Then I'm talking not only about, but also about more processed versions, like pellets and other things that we're now seeing evolve – very interesting areas. It also made us a record investment in this year's agricultural agreement in the case of bioenergy, with 15 new SEK million, which means that we have a significant amount to invest in bioenergy and make business concepts in which the forest owner not only sells the raw materials out of the forest, but delivers finished heat all the way to housing, business buildings, municipal construction or whatever it might be. So organic food, which is an important bet area. I think everyone working on this admits that the state arrangements are very good. It's just about getting many enough to dry and would do this. And the development is actually quite positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1179	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1183	In the 2003 budget proposal, the Government has already committed to the largest investment in kindergartens. We have three clear objectives for the sector: full needs coverage, lower parental and economic equality of all kindergartens. These objectives are the broad political consensus. There is also broad political agreement – and will – to ensure that the objectives are achieved during the current ageing period. On 11 June of this year, the opposition parties at Stortinget entered into an agreement on a significant bet on kindergartens. Government parties have always agreed to this need. In the 2003 draft budget, the Government gives clear signals that we want to follow up the agreement. We believe, however, that it is not appropriate already to commit ourselves to introducing all the major changes that the agreement makes until we know more about the consequences. I have noticed that the parties to the agreement also realize that the pace and level of ambition for important parts of the kindergarten agreement are too high. It is therefore gratifying that on several points they are now proposing adjustments in line with what the Government has proposed. This applies inter alia to the introduction of the maximum price and discretionary spot for the county. In addition, I note that there is no longer any mention of one government grant, but that there should still be both municipal and state funding. This will give us a challenge by introducing a maximum price by losing a significant instrument to balance differences between municipalities. Of course, it is important that we ensure good and equivalent operating conditions for all kindergartens. Today’s municipal discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens needs to be addressed and addressed. It is also important that measures ensure that parents significantly reduce parental pay compared to what they pay today. But there must be no doubt that the Government's objective No. 1 is full needs coverage. There are still thousands of children in line for kindergarten today. The opposition parties assume in their agreement that 32 000 new kindergartens will be established over the next three years. It's a growth rate we haven't had since the early 1990s. This means that government instruments must motivate municipalities and private developers to invest in kindergartens much more than we have in recent years. Nevertheless, I am pleased to note much greater construction activity this year than last year. We need to get better knowledge about the impact on the sector as a whole. The government has therefore launched extensive investigations to identify the economic conditions of the sector. I see with some concern that the bulk of the population is now pressing for the investigation work for the kindergarten reform. The majority ask the Government to return to Stortinget as early as mid-March with proposals for the implementation of the kindergarten agreement. In view of the progress made in the investigations currently under way, it is unlikely that the size would be of sufficient quality on the basis of decision-making. It is important that the proposals that are now coming out of the investigation are well-worked and quality assured, so as to prevent new problems or delays in the reform. In line with the grubbing-up agreement, it has been suggested that the Government will present its proposals in the revised national budget. We should use the time needed to arrive at the best means for the sector as a whole, while building trust in parents who want clear results. I hope that it is possible to discuss this further with the opposition. In order to support the freedom of choice, the Government proposes to increase the cash support by NOK 657 per year. month from 1 August 2003. This corresponds to the infant supplement in the child’s back. From the same date, the infant supplement is proposed for closure. The early childhood allowance, cash support and the state grant to kindergartens are all transfer schemes that reach the same target group — parents with children aged between 1 and 3 years. Most 1- and 2-year-olds will benefit from either cheaper kindergartens or increased cash support with the Government's arrangements. The conversion will result in someone at first getting a little worse out than today. Gradually, though, the families of children will see that they receive a better offer that at the same time eases the financial burden of care. I want targeted cooperation for the benefit of the children. Finally, I would like to emphasise the desire to obtain benefits and comprehensive solutions for the development of kindergartens, and the Government will, in this context, present proposals that contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1207	State Council Davøy is in many ways in the sitting government a state council in special class; she is in a situation that perhaps very many state councils would wish they were in. For she has a clear majority in the Stortinget for her main fields of activity. It's not bad. It really means that most of the big fights between the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Minister for Finance are far off. So the Council of State has had an opportunity that no Minister of Children and Family has actually had before. She has been given the opportunity to get to the Stortinget with a government budget of $2 billion to invest in the kindergarten sector, to get new places and to get the parental pay down. Actually, quite a few of the government's representatives today have made some number of this gigantic effort in the government budget for next year. There might be different reasons for that. I have noticed that right-wing councils and other right-wing representatives who are concerned that there will not be enough tax relief have problems accepting that companies that provide nursery facilities to their employees will receive a tax advantage from it. But there's another bowl. I understood the Council of State Deaf so that she based her nursery contract. It must then be understood that the Council of State and the Government are taking inwards that the lots which have concluded this agreement will implement it, even in such a way that the maximum rate will be the result, as is now apparent from the financial position. So the Council of State is asking in a way for more time. Until mid-March, the department has had three quarters of a year to investigate, and it should actually be a good time. I didn't intend to ask any questions. I just took the floor to wish the Council of State luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1220	Councillor Laila Davøy is nevertheless given the opportunity to respond to the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1223	I agree with the representative that I, as the Council of State, may be in a special class, and I am very pleased that there is such broad consensus in the Grand Duchy about such an important reform as the reform of kindergarten. At the same time, I am very concerned that we are going to do this in a good way, and I am very pleased with the invitation that the Stortinge has also given, that we want to cooperate with the Government on the implementation of the reform. Of course, we're going to apply the majority that's in the Biggest. However, I would like to point out that the nursery sector is complicated. We're actually going to be responsible for no less than 434 municipalities, 3,000 private kindergarten owners and 200,000 children. I want to do this in the fastest possible way and in the best possible way. We've already carried out four investigations. We have launched three new investigations. These include a survey on child care, a full monitoring of parental payments in all kindergartens and a greater monitoring of costs in municipal and private kindergartens. These studies will involve some post-employment in the Department, not only in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, but also in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, some aspects of the Government should be clarified and then also sought to fit them into the revised national budget. Once again, I would urge the opposition to give me the opportunity to come back to the revised national budget as planned, so that it is done in the best possible and quality-assured way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1232	I can also rely on and wish the Council of State happiness in completing the nursery arrangement. I find it strange, however, that the Council of State now feels a pressure to complete it. It might be interesting to hear how long the Council of State really needs to get this reconciliation in place — if she is talking about 2004 or 2005 to complete all its investigations. I have a challenge for the Council of State. Next year, new rules on child contributions are to be introduced. When the case was dealt with, it became an intermediate solution, because the contributor now loses the right to deduct from tax. So the state wants to take in 320 million. kr more on an annual basis in tax because of the loss of this deductibility. That was what the Progress Party warned against when we dealt with this grant scheme – that it was going to happen. The situation is now more documented, and I fully understand that the Council of State is aware that this will have a very large impact on some contributors, either through their being sabotaged in relation to their children’s association, or for other reasons simply cannot take that part of the relationship with their children, which is the starting point of the new contribution scheme. Some contributors may experience tripled and quadrupled contributions because the tax advantage is eliminated in a way. That is why, on this occasion, the Progress Party has put forward a proposal in the vote that the Government should at least look at the outcome. I'd like to challenge the Council of State on that. Is it possible that the Council of State can now look at that kind of thing with other eyes, when we are documented what kind of outcome this will have for some contributors, who are primarily getting very high taxes, larger contributions and simply losing the possibility of having a relationship with their children because of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1246	Thank you for the congratulations also from this representative. So the question of how long do I need? What's the point, is that I don't need more time than what's in the nursery contract from the opposition. But since we're going to get back to Stortinget, we've actually started some investigations that will be completed at the end of February/beginning of March next year after the plan we've made. And after that, we're going to have a lot of postwork to sew this together into a good order. If we're going to file a separate case for the Stortinget already in mid-March, it feels something scarce. We have to go back and ask for faster investigations, and to what extent it can go beyond quality, I dare not answer for it. But I think it is my duty to inform the Storting that we have made a plan. This will have to change if the population wants a case already in mid-March. But that does not mean that the reform as such is being subjected to what the majority wants. With regard to the new rules on child support, this is a major issue that has been dealt with in the Storting before my time, where different calculations have been made. The background for this has been to make the scheme more – let's say – fair, perhaps just towards contributors who pay a certain proportion of their income under current rules. It is now time to set up a set of standards for child care. In many cases, they will actually be lower than the one percentage that has existed today. In addition, it is correct that the representative says about the deductibility. But as I've seen it now, there's actually going to be a lot of contributors that get better. It depends a little on income and what you have paid in the past. But what I can promise the representative is that we're going to follow. I see it as having to implement the scheme as the Storting has adopted it in detail, with a heavy odelsting proposition with a lot of calculations. We're going to follow up, and we're going to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1257	The best thing about the budget that will be adopted later this evening is the use of kindergartens. It's initially NOK 1.7 billion that the government let in, and in addition almost SEK 290 million. kr which the opposition has negotiated and which has naturally been loyally followed up by the party that made a settlement with the Government. This money had also come if the Workers' Party or SV had made a compromise with the Government. That means that until next year, it's almost $2 billion that the opposition has made sure to continue what's in the kindergarten agreement from before the summer, which means that we now stand in front and can once again confirm that the kindergarten agreement will become a reality. I'm glad that this time the Council of State chooses a slightly milder and more conciliatory form in the Storting. I interpret that as the Government now realizes that this will be, and that they are just as happy to cooperate as to continue fighting against it. And I'm glad. On the other hand, I am concerned when the Council of State says that you do not want to commit to the maximum rate and other principles that you do not agree with in the agreement. I think the government now has to realize, as soon as possible, that the bulk of the population is fixed by what we intend to do, whether the government is in favour of or against. The will of the majority of the population in this case must be followed. Then I register that the Council of State says she needs more time. I am amazed at this. Governments have had a very long time. That the department has set a timetable that is not in line with the Stortinget's wishes is the department's problem more than the Stortingets. That means that the only wise and reasonable way to get out of this is to start a dialogue with the parties on the Storting that are actually behind the agreement. In the period up to the New Year, when the Council of State has got a better overview of this, the only wise thing she can do is to engage in dialogue with the Stortinge to ensure that these pieces are put in place. This is the opposition agreement, which the government has been fighting with beaks and clothes all the time. Even if you agree later on, you have voted against all important crossroads. My very clear call to the Council of State is that she goes in dialogue with the settlement parties at Stortinget, and you'll probably find a sensible solution. In conclusion – since the time has come – I, like the previous speaker from the opposition, wish the Council of State good luck. But this is the best in the budget that will be adopted later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1268	I guess it's rare that a government council gets three consecutive congratulations, and I accept them with great joy. I agree with the representative that it is a very great effort we have at kindergartens. I am also very pleased with the majority and the pressure behind it, and I hope and believe that I will be able to become the Council of State that manages to implement full needs coverage with lower parental and financial equal treatment of private and public kindergartens. It's going to be a great pleasure. I am very pleased with the latest comments from the representative of Djupedal. Although the representative is amazed that the Council of State needs more time, the representative nevertheless opens up for us to have a dialogue. I think that is positive, and I will accept that. And once I have an overview of the calculations and see how the road is going to be as we go, I'm of course going to be happy to come back to the Storting and seek advice and cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1277	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1281	The Workers' Party and SV have claimed throughout the harvest that the Government is not doing anything for the competitive industry. It won't be right even if you repeat it often enough. The best thing to do is to provide a tight budget and stable or improved framework conditions. That's what the Co-operation Administration is doing. We get a tight budget that limits demand in the economy and provides the basis for lower interest rates and weaker exchange rates and thereby safer jobs. We get a budget that helps to create new jobs through forward-looking education, research and innovation, while at the same time providing room for targeted efforts to combat poverty at home and abroad. To the right, it was important that a budgetary agreement should not change that. The fact that the Progress Party operates with economic laws other than the majority in this Chamber has fortunately not kept them from concluding an agreement with the government parties. We are pleased with that. The comments from industry have also been consistently positive. The NHO has even gone so far as to say that a good budget has improved for business, and that consideration of the competitive sector has a bearing on reconciliation. The Norwegian business community can be pleased with the Bondevik government. Business saves taxes and taxes for about 13 billion dollars next year, compared to two years ago. It is noted that the air passenger charge, the investment tax and the double taxation of dividends on shares have been removed, that the option tax has been improved, that tax deductions have been introduced for the research costs of companies and that depreciation rates have increased both years. I read in the media that one of the points for repatriation of the Workers' Party is to secure businesses in general and industry in particular good conditions. However, although tightness is in place, there is no reason for business to rejoice over the Workers' Party's alternative budget. Words are not always associated with action. The working party increases the tax burden by about $4 billion, compared to the deal. Their new offensive against Norwegian private ownership reduces investment capacity and prevents innovation and necessary business conversion. And they raise understandable concerns in business by constantly changing positions on important framework conditions. Double taxation of dividends on shares is one example, where they were opposed in 1997 but remained three years later. Another example is that the Workers' Party in the decision on access for savings banks to transform into a limited liability company agreed that the certificates of basic funds should be strengthened, so that the value of assets was reduced. Just now, half a year later, they're going away from it and want to set up the valuation. It happens that I realize that business can be a little overrepresented by us politicians. The Labour Party leader, Jens Stoltenberg, has as one of his slogans – or things he often says – that the Workers' Party wants to create and share. With the Workers' Party's alternative budget, most people feel that there may be more and more sharing and less and less creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1298	The Prime Minister said in his speech earlier today that he was proud of the budget and – I understood it as well – of the conciliation with the Progress Party. He showed, among other things: to the poverty plan, which has been affected by several. I feel the need to say that it helps very little with a plan when you have a policy and proposal that will hit those who are at the worst – and several of the speakers from the Workers' Party have been involved. In the case of the unemployed, the child care systems for lone dependants were cut, the SFO, which is just important to get some of the vulnerable children to be there, will be more expensive, the municipalities are in big trouble, and of course there will also be some of the weakest among us, not least children with child protection. In other words, there will be many unsocial cuts that will be adopted here tonight, which will hit the worst in the world. Then I have to say that it helps very little to refer to a poverty plan. So to one thing that very few of the government parties' spokesmen and women and the Progress Party have touched on today, namely environmental policy. That the Progress Party does not talk about it is nothing new. The new thing is that the members of the government parties are not talking about this in particular, especially in view of the fact that the government has an environmental protection minister who speaks in very large letters, especially when he is criticising other countries' environmental policies, but also here at home. Then it's quite interesting that the government has chosen to cooperate with a party like, among other things. asking major questions about whether we really have some very big climate challenges in the world, which leads to less money for environmental efforts than it would have been if the government had chosen to cooperate with us. It's actually a difference of about 80 million. kr between the budgets of the Workers' Party and that which will be adopted here tonight. In other budgets there is not so much money, but in the environmental budget and in the environmental policy there is a lot of money. We are again shown to be inconsistency between words and actions of the Minister for the Environment and the Government. Let me take two examples: it's not long since the Norwegian Government, Børge Burnde, on behalf of the Norwegian Government, was in Johannesburg and made tough demands on countries around the world to make renewable energy and renewable energy plans. We haven't seen the same plan here in Norway, despite the fact that we've called it many times. What will happen in the budget now tonight is that there will be less money for Enova and for renewable energy than it would have been if the Government had cooperated with us. I heard that the government council Sponheim said instead: ‘For the Left, it is never relevant to go on chords with what we stand for in environmental policy.’ No, but then we have to note that the Left too is very well placed on the party with the Advance Party in relation to environmental policy. But it means less money for bioenergy, for which Lars Sponheim and others speak so warmly, than they could get by cooperating with us. Another example is the reduction in environmental research, for example: on gas power plants with CO2 handling. With the history of this matter, and with the promises contained in the Sem Declaration, which are not followed up, this is particularly interesting. Our environment requires more than beautiful words and celebrations. The environmental challenges require us to be willing to do something active and also spend money on it. What is now happening also in relation to environmental policy this evening is very regrettable. We must note that when the Government faces such elections, it chooses the Progress Party at the expense of more money to solve our major environmental challenges, both here in the country and not least in the world. That's actually what one does, that counts, and not what's being said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1320	I don't want to hide that the proposed government budget in the health and social field had a particularly unsocial profile that I haven't seen in my 14 years at Stortinget: cut in various grant schemes and increased indebtedness of more than NOK 2 billion, which would hit the weakest groups among us, such as chronically ill, disabled and disabled. This draft budget was so absolutely not in line with the assurance this government has given us with its values, that it would be investing in combating poverty and, in particular, taking care of the weakest among us. However, in negotiations with the government parties, the Progress Party has succeeded in significantly changing the social profile of the budget, in line with the values and human views of the Progress Party. Unfortunately, however, we were unable to get the social profile of the budget that we wanted, and as it emerges from the party's alternative draft budget. I am very dissatisfied with and really also upset that we were unable to bring back the general tomb support – otherwise a petty and immoral proposal that affects the poorest of the poorest by stigmatizing them, by forcing them to seek help from the social office, the former poor house, in the event of death in the immediate family. But we have not given up this matter. We'll get it back to you on a later occasion. Similarly, I am very dissatisfied with the fact that we were unable to bring back the prescription system completely. But we had to make a choice between the full and the entire blue recipe or cut the formidable increase of the self-interest that it was put up to. The removal of the increase in the roof will benefit everyone, including the chronically ill, the minimum pensioners and the disabled. However, we were able to negotiate important health and social policy issues, e.g. cut public theft by retirement couples for 2003, 8 000 for 2004, and a total of 11 000 for 2005. We maintained the system of deductions from the tax for large costs of sickness, and we removed the increase in self-interest, a reduction from NOK 1800 to NOK 1350. Unemployed pensioners may still have income of 1 G in the basic amount, and several patients may receive treatment abroad because we have been able to increase the amount for this purpose by a total of 25 million. kr. I have registered that the Labour Party in particular has criticised the Advance Party for the budgetary settlement. They believe that we have not taken enough account of the weak health and care groups. I admit that we haven't come far enough, but I have to ask a counter question. What has the Workers' Party done in this context? Absolutely nothing! They had the opportunity, but they didn't use it. It does not keep waving an alternative state budget where funds have been invested in the health and social sector. This has also been done by the Progress Party in its alternative proposal – much more than what the Labour Party has done in relation to this area of society. But if you don't get a majority for anything, there's little help in proposing. The tax increases and cuts in transfers in health and social contributions made in the government budget of Bondevik amounted to over 2 billion kroner. In negotiations with the government parties, the Progress Party managed to reduce this cut by DKK 1.6 billion on Framework 15 and 16. I do not think this is a bad result when we first have to negotiate the budget. And even if we're not satisfied, I think a lot of people out there are satisfied with the deal that's been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1331	Then, too, this budget harvest has ended well. We get a good budget – a good budget for jobs and value creation, a budget with a good social profile, with a lot of new investments, a budget that has DKK 213 billion above the population's level. It says there's a lot of money spent on the social field. The government will continue its reform policy to change Norway. In my own field, in the field of foreign affairs, where it is not primarily the money that expresses policy, however, this budget will provide very good support for the political objectives that we are trying to achieve. I think the peace negotiations that are taking place in Oslo these days in the case of Sri Lanka are a good example. We're using funds to make sure there's a peace dividend for the people of Sri Lanka. It is well supported by a peace process, and this budget provides opportunities to support it in this way. We have a very high aid budget. We continue our assistance in the Balkans. We have good help, not least to the environment in Eastern Europe. These are areas where you get a good payoff, also because of the high Norwegian krone price. The propulsion party shall have its part of the flowers so that this ended well, that it was possible to bridge different political-economic thinking, and also that it was negotiated in such a way that no one was humiliated, but with an understanding of each other's pain points. Everyone knows that the Progress Party is not particularly enthusiastic about aid policy, but they would nevertheless have to press this point, just to reach agreement. I think this shows a willingness to cooperate that the Workers' Party has enough to learn from. But there is also a tight budget, as was the demand from business, and as was the demand from the districts – just to preserve jobs and make it easier to create value. But this is not our only contribution. The tax policy gives jobs additional impetus, and research and knowledge policy also focuses on innovation. In the tax field, we see some of the interesting lines of conflict between the Government and the Workers' Party. The Labour Party believes that they can create more value and secure jobs by adding an additional tax burden on businesses. It's been tried before, with bad results. We've finally been told what the Workers' Party means by the rich in society, the ones who have to pay more taxes. Well, the rich in society are the teachers and the nurses. It's the quarter of a million people who have income early in the 300,000 dollar class. We believe it is right to push the entry point for the top tax upwards, while the Workers' Party does not want to follow us in that area, with the result that 250,000 more people would have to pay the top tax if the Workers' Party had been able to benefit. Yes, that's what they mean by the rich. This is one of the most important tax policy battlefields in this collapse. But we also have a knowledge policy that takes on board the fact that a good knowledge policy can only be measured in part over a level of funding, because there are so many other things to do. In some important areas, you get a lot of money. One of the fights of the Right, namely the teacher's wages, is an example of that. Research appropriations are another example. The quality reform, which is also included in the budget, is a third example of this. But if you think that this is primarily a question of budgeting, you won't be able to improve Norwegian school. It is not surprising that a debate between Kristin Halvorsen and me in the position in the NRK ended in a debate on swimming pools. It's very nice with swimming pools, but it's not the core of the Norwegian knowledge society. Therefore, it has been important for us to provide quality reforms that improve learning outcomes. That's why new teacher training was important to us, so it's important to try, so greater local freedom is important, and that's why the challenges of the free schools are important, and examples from Sweden show that we get a better school. In relation to the two important things Right laid on the table in the election campaign last year, better school and lower tax, we are now well on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1353	Of course, the Foreign Minister is right to say that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. It is likely also right that money does not say everything in foreign policy, but sometimes it is good to have. It is not so often that the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister are congratulated by day, so I have to congratulate both the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party for having got the Right to talk as if they have for years advocated a dramatic increase in the budget for development aid. Today, there are very beautiful words that are being said about this, and there is a huge gain that the great coalition that has gone into this rapid increase in the development budget has now increased with one more party. What happens if the Progress Party is going to mess up in the Government, I don't know, but maybe they're going to join this great coalition. So also in that area, we just see that there's also a big deal now, larger than ever. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that there are many new investments in this budget. One of those initiatives is not aimed at cooperation with Russia. It has been so for several years that the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have gone in to increase the budget for the developing countries – and so the Right normally – except for a year when they negotiated with the previous Bondevik government, when they got off the path to Russia, but it was little – went in to increase the budget when it comes to cooperating with Russia and investing in the neighbourhood. It's not like that right now. I'm in agreement with what Jan Petersen said about Sri Lanka, but before, Jan Petersen talked more about cooperation with Russia than about Sri Lanka. What, then, is the reason why the government's draft budget goes down first when it comes to Russia's cooperation, they negotiate with the Progress Party, and then the budget goes down further? Is it just this that money isn't everything in foreign policy? Or do we see a signal that a now less emphasis is placed on cooperation with Russia, as the Government is now putting up its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1364	I think it's true to say that my remark about many new areas of activity fell primarily into the mention of the social part of the budget. I have to say that one of the most hopeless objections to the budget has just been that it has been attacked for the social profile. There is so much in this budget that in this area is good and very good, that it is absolutely possible to stand up and defend it. That's the one. With regard to foreign policy, there are also important new areas of activity, such as: the appropriations related to peace-making are now greater than in the past, giving us greater freedom of action in this area. There's also something we need, because there's a lot of effort in this area. When it comes to aid money, I don't put a moment to hide that this, as part of the Sem declaration and agreement with the Christian People's Party, was one of the most important things of the Christian People's Party, and we agreed that this was a sensible way to do it. It is an open secret to some and an open information to others that in our alternative opposition budgets we have not been so high in the aid budget, but this was one of the demands of the Christian People's Party we accepted. True, it was not one of the heaviest demands to accept either. There are many important purposes that are covered in this way. We must be aware that in the field of foreign affairs there is a very sharp distinction between what money you have, whether it is the so-called 03 area that goes to aid, or whether it is the 02 area that goes for other purposes. Eastern Europe falls within the last area. One can discuss the rationale of this borderline approach, but it is now there as an important established political phenomenon. For this reason, it has not been possible to do as much of the work of Eastern Europe as one might wish to do. Nevertheless, there are still considerable resources, important means. And so we're, as I mentioned, in the lucky situation that this year's crown price helps us get even better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1375	I don't have as many questions for the foreign minister as for the party leader. As the post was presented, it opened because it was the party leader who spoke for a substantial part of the time. I want to raise, I think for the fourth time, a question that has to do with shipping. It has long been claimed from the Right that selective measures against individual industries are dissenting, and it is argued for this in the financial committee's settings, despite the fact that Parliamentary leader Oddvard Nilsen said that it was only because of the tightness of the budget that it had to be proposed to remove the reimbursement of some seafarers and the net pay system for ferry companies. However, it is not these two things that concern me, but the fact that the EU, which normally has rules prohibiting State aid, has opened up and has actually recommended its countries to introduce a more offensive shipping policy based on favourable tax regimes for shipping companies and net pay arrangements for seafarers. This has not been implemented in all countries, but it has been introduced in Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom, and in several countries it is under planning. This means that we are gradually becoming less competitive in Norway. It's already approx. 18,000 Norwegian seafarers compared with 50,000 non-residents, and there is a decrease in Norwegians. This is an important issue for the maritime sector, and I'm talking about the whole sector. Both the organisations of the seafarers, the shipping companies, the brokerage business, the financing business and the insurance business talk about the need for this cluster. Can we expect the Government to take at some point what is going on about the flagging and decommissioning of shipping companies, more seriously and will be involved in the Progress Party proposed at the Innst. O. No 19 and Innst. O. No 27, to introduce the same framework conditions for shipping in Norway as in the EU, so that we stop flagging out? It is not certain, if you repent two to three years later, that the same shipping companies will fly home. There is a lack of predictability in Norwegian shipping policy. Can we expect that the Right will soon begin to change its policy in this area in accordance with this important sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1384	Hagen is quite right that it is the fourth time this question is asked today. I don't know if I'll be able to satisfy him, since he's obviously not quite satisfied with the answers that have come. These are questions that, if I understood him correctly, consist of different components. Norway has been out early, just as has been said, in introducing a tonnage tax scheme, where now there are also 30 pst. down. That means that in this area, we have had a favourable tax for a long time. So it's true, as Hagen says, that with regard to the other problem complex, the EU has opened up the way he said it. It is also true, as he says, that there is no common EU policy in this area, but some countries have taken advantage of the opportunity to take advantage of the space created here. When we did not have the elements mentioned here in our draft budget, it is correct, as Oddvard Nilsen says, that there has been a tight budget. It has been very important for us to be able to deliver in relation to the requirements set out by industry and Norwegian districts around Baut in a tight budget. Therefore, it has not been possible to address the requirement set here. Otherwise, it would not be right for me to go into areas that are not mine in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1393	The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the SV are often in the throes of each other in matters that are quite far away. I thought I'd leave it here today. I perceived, like Carl I. Hagen, Jan Petersen's posts as a little, burning desire to be allowed to discuss some domestic policy. It has been claimed by the Right's representatives and from many other government representatives that in Norway we have a disproportionately expensive school that we only get medium-sized results out of, and it's said that there can't be any more money that's the recipe for getting a good education. Now I would like to know what the Right believes it's reasonable to cut in this expensive school. There is no extremely expensive school in Norway compared to other Nordic countries. On the contrary, we are about on the level of other Nordic countries. If you go in and try to find some explanation why it might be a little bit higher, it's very much because we have a school structure there 40 pst. of the schools are primary schools or a few schools. Another reason is that we have many integrated children, e.g. in relation to Finland, which has very few minority language children. The last is that Norwegian teachers have less reading duties than other teachers. But it is, as you know, a question of negotiation. Can I know what of this Right believes it should be made less of, and where the death list to the Right of Norwegian cross-border schools exists, in which drawer, for if not, you must almost stop talking about it. I don't think any of those who now turn to us in despair over cut in the frame hours, over cut in many areas of school, share the Right's view that a high-quality school has nothing to do with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1400	Kristin Halvorsen is quite right in saying that it is good to discuss domestic politics also in the Stortinget for me, and I just have to compliment Kristin Halvorsen that this time our school discussion did not end in a discussion about swimming pools, but about something more fundamental. I have never formulated myself so that we have a disproportionately expensive school. I've pointed out what's actually a relationship, that we're among the world's highest in terms of resource input in school, but we're in the middle of the tree in terms of what we get out of it. It tells an important thing, that appropriations are not the only goal of a good school. Appropriations are important in many contexts, and I mentioned in my article three areas where it is important. It can probably multiply, some of this. But the problem with Kristin Halvorsen's approach angle is that she's so concerned about this funding issue that she forgets many of the important factors that are of a non-economic nature and that are perhaps more important than the actual appropriations to get a quality school. I also mentioned those points in my article in relation to what you will be going into, and which we are now putting into light, and which this government's reforms are helping to improve. And the good thing about now passing this budgetary procedure is that this government is going to continue its necessary reforms in the school sector to improve quality. I'm very aware of what I promised before the election, I said better school. This budget, not least after Mr. Hagen, also has something about school buildings. We're doing it, but we're not doing it because I promised it, because it wasn't part of my promises, I had focus on other areas than this. The school structure wasn't one of the things that I was in there promising, so I was in there promising the parts that we're now focusing on, what's about improving the teaching itself. And there are so many areas here that if Kristin Halvorsen can now get out of the one-sided focus on allocations, she can probably also participate well here in the debate on these multi-challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1408	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1411	The President-in-Office of the Council, Jan Tore Sanner, said in the debate this morning that the government parties and the Progress Party agreed on a budget represent important steps in the process of changing Norway. That's right. The budget involves important steps away from a fair distribution, away from maintaining a high level of good general social arrangements for the elderly, disabled, single-parents and families with young children. Because these are the ones that are affected by the social cuts that the budget still has, although some of these cuts have been reduced by the budgetary agreement. Therefore, it was not possible to reach an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's parties on next year's budget. The working party cannot or will not share responsibility for such development. It is a breach of important values that we have stood for and gained through in this room – in cooperation with the centre parties – and that has shaped the development of the Norwegian welfare society. But when the Right parliamentary leader, Oddvard Nilsen, claimed that the negotiations with the Workers' Party were a game, it must be the Right's position he talked about. We went into these negotiations seriously, and Oddvard Nilsen knows we were moving. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, also praised these negotiations in a reply to the Labour Party. Negotiations are giving and taking. But Oddvard Nilsen can't have expected us to give, and only him to take? The Minister of Finance used parts of his contribution to point out the issues that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre disagree on, and thought it would be interesting to attend what he called'seminar' a closer cooperation between these parties would be. The finance minister should perhaps be more concerned about the distance between the government parties and the Progress Party, upon which the existence of the government depends. For that matter, economic policy is characterised neither by its proximity to content nor by its warmth in form. Firstly, there is a gap in the distance between the Government and the Advance Party in the view of the use of oil money. In the additional opinion of the Financial Committee, the Progress Party notes that ‘contracting parties are fundamentally different from each other in terms of demand management and offer side-stimulation’. And the party goes on to say about the budget they're going to take co-responsibility for later tonight, that it 'in no way is an optimal solution for most people'. In his contribution, the Siv Jensen Progress Party used quite strong words. She said that the government “does not have a recipe” for the challenges facing it; it only has “probations” to come along. And she characterised the economic development in Norway as ‘stabilising side rentals’. It seems that the tone and content of the cooperation between the Government and the supporting party should be more than enough to satisfy the Minister of Finance's seminar needs. In a series of exchanges with the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, the Minister of Finance said that the public sector needs to reduce the demand for labour in order to reduce the pressure on the labour market. More clearly, it can hardly be said that this government is taking the brakes through the municipal sector. It means less to school and less to care for the elderly to accommodate one promise in the Sem statement that is more important than all the others: the tax relief of NOK 31 billion. People will notice that this is going to hit the school and the care of the elderly. Right Jan Tore Sanner asserted in his statement that the Workers' Party ‘applies to’ with tax increases. The budget of the Workers' Party means 7 billion DKK lower tax levels next year than this year. And before the Progress Party was forced to charge a couple of hundred million dollars in the budget agreement, the Workers' Party actually had almost 100 million dollars. kr lower tax chapters than those proposed by the Government and the Government Parties in the first position of the Financial Committee. Finally, there was a further reduction in the tax on the strongest beverages. It must be a poor comfort to the Christian People's Party that there was also 11 million. kr to customs when they had to accept 100 million. kr till – I had almost said – the sinners. It is necessary to look at many of our excise duties, because in some areas they are generated by the development around us and thus get results that are unfortunate also for Norwegian jobs. However, it is not true that the overall level of taxation in Norway is so high. It is in line with the average in EU countries and significantly lower than in our nearest neighbouring country. But it's different in the relationship between taxes and taxes. Nor must we forget that in the future, as in the past, it is our work on which we must live and build our well-being. Oil and gas revenues can never replace work and value creation as a basis for well-being, either for individuals or for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1447	It could be tempting to replicate until the last talk that the hundreds of millions probably didn't go to all the sinners. Because there are some of us who don't intend to use them, and we're probably belonging to that category that we also belong to. The Christian People's Party is a clear family and care party. We're going to know these areas. We'll do that through the budget that's now agreed. Everyone said the same thing before the budget was presented. There must be a tight budget. We need to secure industry and jobs. We need to reduce the pressure on interest rates. We did that, we delivered it. In retrospect, most opposition parties had forgotten that that was what they said in advance. To want is not to say that one will, but it is to act. For this we have also been closed in having a tight budget, but at the same time few spaces for important priorities of the Christian People's Party: We are increasing support for the weakest in Norway and on a world-wide basis.We give priority to family, health and care.We are investing in the freedom of choice for families with children.We are investing in higher education and research. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party run A4 format on family. We see the shortage. Human beings don't have simple, but their own needs. They're different, not the same. There is a great ideological difference between the parties mentioned here. I can also promise to be both a target and a means in the family message that comes to spring. As our family policy is important, we will also be aware of care. From cradle to grave, care shall be taken. Our belief in an inviolable human dignity obliges us. That's why we believe that we need life help and not death help. The Christian People's Party's policy is based on the following outline: The nation that does not care for the weakest among us and internationally is a poor nation. Norway is not poor, but some people in Norway are. We take this seriously: For this reason, as the first government, we have a plan of action against poverty, which is why we have created a ceiling of 2 for those with the highest expenditure, thereby increasing our efforts in mental health and in the field of drugs. Everyone can see that general action against poverty has not been an absolute success. Then we must dare to think again. We need to catch up. Why should the country lubricate $4,000 for all those who want to have digging, when many of us do not need support? When the government makes suggestions to increase support almost three times as much to those who need it, we are almost kicked. For some, it has the self-esteem of life. Are we so terrified that people have to give up on some obtained dishes that we don't dare to be unpopular? Being in position involves some flowering times, but closing over the flowers quickly stops when it comes to the cactus in both verbal and physical sense. No, it's not always a road covered with roses to take responsibility. And that's not why we're sitting there doing what we're doing. The Christian People's Party takes responsibility in an exacting situation. Hopefully, we'll have multiples for a good budget on which to dampen the pressure on interest rates and interest rates. It will secure jobs and benefit industry, municipalities and families. Here no one should sit in the gallery and give responsibility to others. No, when human fear of their own livelihood, all responsible politicians should choose the game. Here we must take the lead and secure the jobs and the basis of people's lives. I said we have to secure the workplaces. It's important, but not enough, we have to create and secure jobs. Conversion of Research Council gives more room for innovation. The basic research shall also be strengthened. Deductions from the R & D tax in industry – a so-called full Hervik – are also important here. The research fund has increased by $3 billion to $30 billion. We're going through the toolkit. We need more to give out Reodor Felgen prizes for creativity. We need more like Thor Heyerdahl. He cried out: I found, I found! – and showed us the value and potential of healthy curiosity. We can and should not be a tax policy differentiating country. On the contrary, we have to make ourselves sought-after and attractive to those who want to invest in innovation and investment. The relationship between well-being and tax/tax is also not an either- or, as some have claimed. No, to ensure the basis of well-being, we need a strong industry and a high-growth business. Things often hang in jump. Well done is better than well said. I believe, President, that the state budget is lukewarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1500	The President does not hand out grades. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1505	Now we're on the edge of the dot, now it's about to take a long step. In many ways, I feel that the Government and Government Party are taking this long step now, and especially when it concerns the areas of local economy, district policy and also the situation of the unemployed. It is easy to understand that the Christian People's Party feels disappointed and does not know the Christian People's Party in the overall picture. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party are some at one important point, simply keeping a tight budget to bring down the interest rate and the crown price. But in addition, it is important to be offensive about labour and industrial policy, and here the Christian People's Party fails. The Labour Party will make an offensive effort to strengthen the local economy, in Aetat and in several action areas at a time when unemployment is growing sharply. Nor will the Labour Party participate in large social cuts in the day-to-day arrangement, which will make life more difficult for the unemployed, as the Christian People's Party wants. My question to the representative Lilletun will be: Are tax and tax incentives more important than strengthening these areas? I just want to remind the representative Lilletun that if the Christian People's Party had reached an agreement with the Labour Party, his own municipality, Kristiansand, would have strengthened its economy by 15 million. kr. Finally, is the representative happy that the Progress Party forms a parliamentary basis for the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1516	In any case, I am pleased that the Progress Party has been involved in taking responsibility for a responsible budget for the country. They should be commended for that. And then we're left with the right lesson on tax relief versus municipal economy and social cuts. Now our country today says that the Labour Party and the Progress Party are some of the most important things in the state budget, and they are going through the demands they expect the alternative budgets had. It's actually interesting reading. When it comes to non-social measures, today's industry on Friday had quite a big look at the nursery agreement, and that the Progress Party has done a scoop, I must congratulate you on that. But the Labour Party and SV are involved in giving DnB 25 000 kroner to the chief researcher, who has calculated that he saves on the kindergarten agreement because he thinks so much! The tax base that we've given, which is essentially the minimum deduction and the top tax from approx. 350,000, is for little to count compared to what the Labour Party has been doing here. I shall nevertheless make an admission to the representative Uppebøen Hansen. There are many municipalities that are tired. Hence, they are also strengthened by DKK 1 billion. It would definitely be inconceivable with even more here. But when you look at how the Labour Party has funded its strengthening, by creating even more uncertainty for small and medium-sized enterprises, I'm not sure if we've seen any of it coming out better anyway. So the government's budget is still up to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1529	It is very positive that the representative Lilletun is busy with jobs and business. In the political basis of the Government, the Sem Declaration, there was a strong commitment to road investment, and they have stated that they would invest 600 million. kr more per. years after the Workers' Party Government submitted proposals in the national transport plan. This promise has not been fulfilled, and the reason a user, as far as I understand, is that this is not because it will create too much pressure in the Norwegian economy. Fortunately, the Progress Party made it to 150 million. kr more for road racing than what the government suggested, and we are very pleased about that. Placing results in a series of positive results. It reduces travel time, reduces transport costs for business and reduces traffic accidents. Today, we also have 1 000 job vacancies in the civil engineering sector. Prognosis indicates that the number will increase to 2,500 in a short time. In addition to this, we have many idle plant machines. When one takes note of the fear of the pressure in the Norwegian economy that prevails here, I would have appreciated it if the representative Lilletun could explain to me what pressure it creates to move unemployed workers into productive work to make roads so that business gets lower transport costs. If he could explain how this creates pressure in the Norwegian economy, I would have appreciated it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1536	Now it could in itself be tempting to talk about the narrow road, but I shouldn't. I will answer the question. It is quite right that in the transport sector we get a big boost – the biggest in history before public transport. It's important for the environment, and it's important for them. When it comes to roads, I have had to weigh two things against each other. The one is actually dealing with a tight budget and preventing us from getting a dollar price and an interest rate out of control. Then you can probably find a sector by sector where there are tiny niches where there are unemployed, but the labour market is a whole. At the same time as it may look as if there are road workers without work, it has our lack of people in the building industry otherwise. So if we're going to run macro-economics and take industry and parts of industries, I think we're going to have a big problem getting it up. We just have to admit that the Progress Party and the Government – including the Christian People's Party – disagree on how it is to spend more of the money we have and put it into the economy. I remind you that we have – against advice – done it once before, and there came a good deal of interest letters! I want to believe that the representative Hagesetter was one of those who also got it. I assume that he was no better off than many at his age, and that he had some debt. We thought it was the worst thing we could do to families. We hope that we will eventually be able to take up more of what we have said in the Sem statement, because we have not, as the representative Hageseter quite rightly said, reached the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1554	A few days ago, my daughter came home from school and had learned about the ten commandments, including the commandment ‘You shall not steal’. She is very concerned about this offer. And if there's one thing children are concerned about, then it's justice, and it should all be. The government has increased the grant to private schools by nearly 35 pst. in the year's budget, an increase of 465 million. kr. In reality, it means an increase of approximately NOK 20 000 per person. students in private schools. At the same time, the Christian People's Party government has not found room to improve the economic situation of the public schools, there over 98 p.m. by our children go. 1.8 pst. children get more money, while the remaining ones experience cut, cut and cut. Realities are intercepts of about 10 pst. in municipal budgets, which go beyond schools. Schools are laid down in rafts, pools are closed, libraries are laid down, teachers are told up and half of our schools do not have a good enough indoor climate. The Christian People's Party is involved in changing the entire Norwegian school structure. What is needed is a bet at public school, where children with different backgrounds come together. That is what will create tolerance and fellowship in a society that is becoming increasingly fragmented and diverse. The government, on the other hand, is going to halve the funds for the SFO, a cut this year of 217 million. kr, which gives an increase in the parental payment of several hundred kroner per year. month(s) per month a child. The Nord-Norway instrument scheme has been removed with a pen stroke, which is important for recruiting teachers where this is needed. This is necessary to ensure an equal right to education throughout Norway. The public school race is a political priority. This budget steals from public schools and gives to private schools. This is simply unfair. Does Lilletun feel comfortable with this rotation, along with the Advance Party? My question to Lilletun is whether the following calculation is correct: If you had given the same amount of money to increase to the public school per. If you were a private school student, would that have meant an increase to the public school of $20 billion? Or how many billions in increase would that mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1569	First, I want to take what I'm in agreement with Lena Jensen, and that's that the ten bodas are very important, and that we're all going to make an absolute effort to live by them. Then I would also like to thank the representative Lena Jensen for mentioning the Government as the Christian People's Party government! We're talking a little too often about the Right-Registration or the Right-Registration. I also see reason to thank her for seeing the facts, even though I might not have said it high! I am not comfortable with many schools having little money, that there is not enough equipment, osb. The local economy is tight. I respect and accept that the representative Lena Jensen criticises both the Government and the Christian People's Party in relation to this. But I'm asking that one not in this way connects private schools with it, because what's happened this year is that one follows the law. And what's the promise? Yes, she says that the private schools should have 85 pst. the average public school price. Then the cost of rent, the cost of capital, is not included, so in practice it will be between 65 and 75 pst. So when you say that this increase in private schools goes out on the public school, it's wrong. And when one says they get more, it's also wrong. There might be some municipalities that actually have one cost per. Students who are so low that it becomes equal, or even the private school comes out a little better. In the review we're going to have now, I think it's one of the things we absolutely have to look at. But the mean is no doubt, it shows KOSTRA, which has gone through this now. What is permitted is exactly according to the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1579	The increased appropriations for private schools are dubious under the law. The problem is that this shows a deliberate investment in private schools, a build-up, an increase in the number of students in private school and an increase in the funding of the private school that will ultimately go at the expense of public school. If there is an alternative offer, more and more parents will apply to the private school at a time when the public school is subjected to a reduction in the number of teaching positions, classes are filled to the maximum, and where the Minister of Education, at the top of the whole, proposes to remove the maximum student number limit, schools are laid down, there is a longer distance between home and school — at all a reduction in the public school that should be impossible to defend. My question to Jon Lilletun's representative will therefore be as follows: What are the consequences of Jon Lilletun's view that the situation in which the municipalities are now, with cuts in school offerings, is going to have in the long term? It is said that there may be 2 500 teaching positions disappearing, and that there will be as much as 2 billion dollars cut in the school sector in the coming year. What consequences does the former Minister of Education see that this will have for public schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1588	I am pleased that the representative Enoch says that this is certainly in accordance with the law. So I repeat that the law is to ensure private schools 85 pst. of the operating costs less the capital costs. How it can be in a way that a private school is distributed over the public school is absolutely impossible for me to understand. I belong to those who are happy in the public school. I have sent my own children there. I have advised parents of my grandchildren to use the public school, and it will be my advice in the future as well. At the same time, there are some parents who want something else, and then I thought we should be proud that in Norway we actually have a law that says that parents who want an alternative offer should actually be able to use it, even with a regular income – not like in England, that one has to right to the upper class and pay it itself. I thought that the Norwegian mindset here is fundamentally democratic, and I thought it was completely wrong when a debt of these 2 psts. by students who attend private schools, and their parents, to be the problem for the public school. I totally agree that we have a job to do, and it's important to follow the developments in the public school ahead, but I think we never solve the challenges in the public school by releasing them up to 2 pst. We have to solve this by going to the content and how we organize and finance the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1593	We are amazed that the representative Lilletun can be so pleased with the budget when there are so many unhappy municipal politicians from the Christian People's Party. This year's financial debate was naturally opened by the representative, Siv Jensen, the leading political spokeswoman of the Government's supporting party. I will allow myself a few small quotations from the representative Jensen. She said, "The government doesn't have a recipe at all," and that, "then the Christian People's Party's representatives and government members can't run around and try to imagine people that they really wanted things different." Then there was something with tongues: ‘Speaking in tongues may be well known to the Christian People’s Party, but speaking with two tongues is something quite different.’ That's what the representative Siv Jensen says about the Christian People's Party – they speak with two tongues. With great satisfaction, the same representative highlights the positive effect with reduced taxes on alcohol, caravans and motorcycles. My question is: Does the representative Lilletun feel comfortable with – and does he think – that the values and heart issues of the Christian People's Party disappear in the great letters of the Advance Party, as many local politicians from the Christian People's Party think they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1606	I think Gunn Olsen's representative has a point. It has been a good deal of unfortunate municipal politicians from the Christian People's Party in relation to the government's budget. They want to provide good welfare, and the budget is tight. But I hope that Gunn Olsen both as a former municipal politician and here at Stortinget has registered for a good few years that this unfortunate situation is not a new date for municipal politicians. I'm going to be able to find clips in my deletion, not arrange archives, but in my bunkers, where a lot of workers' spokesmen tell me something about how the Workers' Party stands with the municipalities. It's not a new situation, but the inconclusive situation is just as real, it's quite obvious. After the conciliation, there was probably not anything ludicrous, but it helped a little with this billion coming. It was important for the Christian People's Party in the negotiations that one led. Then ask Gunn Olsen how I feel about a tax collector. It is clear that the representative Lilletun and the Christian People's Party are not happy with cheaper spirits, even though there is about one percent of what is being charged in such fees, as one has cut, and it is largely in line with the advice of the National People's Party. So some dimensions: $4.4 billion was moved on. One hundred million. Brilliant alcohol levies and 80 million. NOK other fees, i.e. SEK 180 million. NOK 4,4 billion. That's what almost had to happen to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1617	The chord shift has been completed. Before we go back to the ordinary list of speakers, Jan Tore Sanner gets the word to make a suggestion, so that we get everything in proper form here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1622	On behalf of myself, Siv Jensen, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and May Britt Vihovde, I would like to propose an adjustment to the proposal for a levy on HFC and PFC gases. The proposal will be distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1627	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1630	For a long time, there has been a strong focus on the Norwegian business environment and on the prospects for traditional Norwegian competitive industry. The demand from industry has been a tight budget in the autumn. The government has delivered that. But the concept of value creation has also been introduced into the public debate with renewed force. Value creation as a basis for our welfare society seems to have gained new topicality, and fortunately new and increased attention. Reductions in taxes and duties are important for business. In today's debate, it has always been claimed from the left that reductions in taxes give more to those who already have enough. This is particularly evident in the desire to reintroduce double taxation. There is therefore good reason to repeat that a high level of taxation weakens the competitiveness of businesses, reduces the efficiency of the economy and slows down access to capital for investment and innovation. The government's draft budget and the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party are an important choice for the future of Norwegian industry and have shown both owners, employees and investors that a clear political majority on the Stortinget have Norwegian business and competitive industry as first priority. The budget that will be adopted for 2003 provides a good basis for future value creation and thus continues to provide a basis for well-being. It has been claimed, not least from the left, that well-being costs, and that it is therefore not possible to maintain the welfare society we want, while at the same time providing incentives through facilitation of personal and business taxation. Not least we heard it during the campaign last year. It should therefore be a law of nature which requires that we cannot change our record tax and tax levels without simultaneously attacking the foundation of the welfare society. Through its two provisional budgets, the co-operation administration and the majority of the population have shown that this is not the case. The government has shown that it is possible in economic policy, in total economic priorities, to have not only two but up to several thoughts in your head – in fact at the same time. We have implemented tax reductions of DKK 19 billion up to now – well on the way to the 31 billion Sem Declaration objective, which was described as an estimate of the welfare society during the election campaign one year ago. At the same time, a tight budget is being presented with a expenditure increase that allows us to dampen the pressure on interest rates and hence on the Norwegian krona, which is currently one of the main problems for Norwegian competitive industries, perhaps together with the over-liberal wage developments we have seen in the later wage settlements. In isolation, the Norwegian interest rate level is also an extra burden for Norwegian companies, individuals and not least municipalities. 1 pst. interest rate decline means an improvement in the local economy of DKK 1.2 billion. Norwegian households will save NOK 10 billion on a similar decrease in loans for dwellings, cars and other necessities. For Norwegian companies, this will amount to NOK 6 billion, which is the same thing as the removal of the investment fee. Reduced interest rates and lower exchange rates will also help accurately and accurately with the companies, individuals and municipalities that are in the most difficult situation. In any case, in the years to come, Norwegian business will be in a transition phase, and strong investment in research and development is needed as a basis for future industry and jobs. The year’s budget therefore includes a significant focus on content and quality in higher education, large increases in research appropriations and tax reliefs for research and development at company level. This will provide the basis for future business in Norway, for a changed Norway, where the best from our original is maintained, and where new business based on technology and education can grow. At the same time as the budget lines for Norwegian business and value creation, we, as the first government in modern times, have achieved, through significant measures in the budget for those who have the most difficulty, a lifting for the poorest in our society. The government's fight against poverty is primarily aimed at helping people to find a job. Individuals should be able to come into a situation where they can help themselves further without being involved in any lifelong clientisation. It is the responsibility of the public to provide good living conditions, and the government has taken responsibility for it. In the interface between individual responsibilities and the commitment of the welfare society to help, the ability of each individual to gain financial autonomy through work must be a priority. The government has done that. This is a long-term investment in human capital and resources that we are not allowed to take. As you can see, this matter is perhaps one of the most important issues in the budget that we are adopting tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1656	The budget is policy. That is why budgetary negotiations are a little more than moving billions between different budget lines. Therefore, if the Labour Party were to be part of a budgetary agreement with the Government Party, the agreements must also have set out a course that we, at least on the road, could be in. It didn't happen, maybe natural enough. The government party and the Progress Party went to the elections to get another political course to replace the Stoltenberg government. So in the country in which the United Nations headed for the best country to live, it was imperative to have a different social governance. The new policy direction is also reflected in both the Government's budgetary proposals and in the budgetary agreements between the Government Party and the Progress Party. Taxes that give the most to the richest are prioritised. Public schooling, health care, care for the elderly, the unemployed, the sick and the infirm become the losers. It is a good picture of the policy course when the annual fee for caravans and motorcycles was lower than that for school and health when the government party and the Progress Party prioritised within the budget changes of DKK 4.4 billion. Throughout the election campaign, the battle was fought to the Right tax and school. Some of us tried to point out that this was not going on. Now we see the result. Taxes are prioritised, and the public school together with the care of the elderly, the school-time arrangements and other municipal services must suffer. Now the claim from the Government – we have heard that today – is that the quality of the school must be improved in another way. Yes, the quality of the school must always be sought to improve through organisation and educational development. But then we have to know what kind of school we want. If we want an integrated school for everyone, where everyone can come with their different intentions and exploit their individual professional and social potential, we will still have a resource-requiring school with a frame-hour that allows for flexible solutions. One is at least certain: one does not increase the quality of the school by strangling the local economy. Nor does suffocating the municipal economy increase parental care. Measurements show that many older people say they will vote in the Progress Party because care for the elderly will be so much better. Yes, it can be true when John Alvheim, with his fist and his heart pounding voice, rages against municipalities that can't solve all the problems well enough. But the true picture is that the Progress Party in its own budget proposal reduces the transfers by DKK 3 billion to municipalities, which may have the task of caring for the elderly. The one billion that municipalities receive under budget agreements is no more than the failure of the tax input to municipalities this year. The local government sector is now in such a situation that the provision of welfare needs to be reduced in order to balance the budget and the accounts. There is widespread frustration among spokespersons and local politicians who are serious enough for the motivation to pursue local policies. But the most serious thing is that there are older, sick, children and others who depend on these supplies, it goes beyond. That's why it's bad when the government party and the big crowd don't see the will to do anything about this situation. The Labour Party proposes to strengthen the local government sector by DKK 3 billion in addition to its proposals. Of these, 1.9 billion are free revenues. In addition, we will increase the ear-marked appeals to kindergarten, to free clay schools, to the lending scheme for school books in secondary schools, to cultural buildings and to local environmental work. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party, a point has been made to indicate that the addition to the clay ball is to be earmarked. That's what we agreed on. There's been a lot of uncertainty about clay balls. The working party believes that the base ball should be free, as with a clay ball. The government will also end up with this. But when enlargement and government express such a will, a system must also finance these costs, not leave part of the costs to municipalities that are already under financial pressure. That's what the Government Party and the Advance Party do. We have raised 41 million in the Labour Party's draft budget. kr extra to complete the financing of travel and subsistence free of charge. The local economy has become dramatically worse this year because of exceptional pension costs. Here, too, the Government does not show its will to do anything. For the Working Party, this is not acceptable. We therefore repeat our proposal from the treatment of the municipal bill and the revision of the national budget on a fund scheme for the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1673	The 2003 budget is the first budget prepared and presented by the Cooperation Government on its own. I therefore think it is very gratifying that this budget is being adopted today, with the amendments agreed with the Progress Party. Securing competitive jobs is important in today’s situation. The notification of closure or relocation of enterprises has been taken seriously. Security of the economy and work is essential for well-being. This is why the Government has taken active action to meet the challenges, and these steps have actually been reinforced in the Budget Agreement with the Progress Party. In the debate today, several have suggested that the high level of interest rates and the strong exchange rate are almost the fault of the Bank of Norway and that rapid changes in the instructions of the central bank can solve the problems. To believe that fundamental press problems in the Norwegian economy can be solved with monetary policy rewording is, in my view, somewhat naive, and I think it is a weakness that such positions are promoted by central actors in the labour market and here at the Stortinget. On the contrary, this signals a lack of understanding and willingness to take responsibility for the fundamental challenges we face in the Norwegian economy. The 2003 government budget is tight, the growth in the public sector is only 0.5 pst. versus 2.5 pst. in 2002. Thus, the underlying expenditure growth over the two years of the governance of cooperation is lower than the growth of GDP for mainland Norway over the same period. The budget represents a marked change in the price of growth in public expenditure, and it is an important contribution to securing jobs in the private sector. On this basis, the Government provides lower interest rates and less pressure on Norwegian exchange rates. The government’s aim is to contribute to innovation and to provide a basis for future jobs. This is why there is a strong focus on higher education, tax relief and public and private research. The focus on public research has never been greater. The research fund will be allocated DKK 3 billion and the funding for quality reform will be increased, and the increase in student scholarships will be 40 pst. is now financed on an annual basis. In addition, research in industry is stimulated by the fact that the tax credit for own and external research is now to cover all enterprises. In total, the budget is a force for innovation and the jobs of the future. The co-operation administration has announced a strong change in tax policy and promised 31 billion in relief during the period. After two years, we're 19 billion on the way. This provides a better framework for business and gives voters a good record of their clear signals in the 2001 elections. I have registered that the Workers' Party refers to this state budget as a poor budget for industry. It is with all due respect a crude claim from a party that will increase the tax on labour and on value creation by over NOK 4 billion in next year's budget. On the contrary, industry feedback has been spectacularly positive. The Budget Agreement with the Progress Party has received almost unreserved support from the NHO, the Land Association of the Process Industry, Abelia, the Land Association of the Construction Industry – almost the entire list of business organisations can be listed. The fact is that the Government has complied with almost all of the industry's wishes in advance of the presentation of the budget. The co-operation government is the first post-war government to launch a targeted effort to combat poverty in Norway. In addition, aid to the world's poorest is increased by 856 million. kr. Psychiatry comes out well, with an increase of 670 million. kr, the biggest increase psychiatry has ever had. Psychiatry is an area where the need is very great, but where political attention has been low. This state budget is a good and social budget, where the Cooperative Government demonstrates that a social budget can be combined with a good value creation policy. The Progress Party and the Government Parties have agreed on the budget. The Progress Party has strengthened the profile of taxation, pensions, road budgets and education. The increase in transfers to municipalities of DKK 1 billion included in the contract is also an important contribution to increasing well-being. Despite the fact that the gap between the government parties and the Progress Party is high in economic policy, the party has acted responsibly and supported a budget for 2003 to ensure that developments continue in the right direction. Otherwise, I will refer to the option to Document No. 8:4, amending the mandate of the Bank of Norway in monetary policy. The Committee concludes that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol. This is probably an example of the fact that the parties want to adapt their monetary policy in order to spend more money in the Norwegian economy than is proper. The State budget is forward-looking and puts value creation and jobs first and maintains the change in course on which the Cooperative Government is based. It is therefore very gratifying that the budget, with the amendments contained in the agreement with the Progress Party, is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1699	In the evening, most things have been said. I am left with the impression that the two-parts are re-created in Norwegian politics. Obviously, it doesn't like the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party. He and his party are trying to hide that they are pursuing right-wing policies in a government that is dominated by just the Right, with the Progress Party on the draw. He should probably go to his payroll room and decide if that's where he belongs at home. in a party that goes in order for the shareholders to get more and the unemployed minority in a party that will strengthen the efforts of private schools for 2 pst. by the students and at the same time give the public common ground poorer corps a party that wants to build housing for the elderly in the south, while making it harder for Norwegian young people to establish themselves here at home a party that facilitates the taxes on caravans and motorcycles, while reducing the benefit of child care for single carers The list is long – quite heartbreaking, you ask me, and no one dances on roses, to replicate to the representative Lilletun, at least not the Labour Party's roses. The Labour Party's parliamentary leader has in several contexts today called for the country to need a government with a fixed plurality behind it – either in government or with a multiplicity here on the Stortinget. It's a wise goal, a goal that can make it a little more stable to bow in this country. It may be that we need a Christian People's Party on team to do it. The politics would do that, even if the party might have an explanation problem over a transitional period. I understand that the government party argues that the country needs a tight budget to explain why they are going against good measures. The Labour Party also believes that the country needs a tight budget, in fact our budget is tighter than what is agreed tonight. However, the need for a tight budget cannot explain why they take from unemployed, young children’s parents, the school-free arrangements and sole supporters to give more to those who have the most in their life. Oddvard Nilsen argued in a reply to me earlier this evening with the need for a tight budget in order to defend that he and Right have not in any way followed up what they have promised on the road map in general and on the road map in particular. There was no such remainder last spring, when he hit the big room in connection with the handling of the national transport plan. There was no such remainder in the Sem statements either. I think the representative Nilsen knows very well that the pressure in the economy was not less last fall. Rather, it is likely that there is much to suggest that the economic cycle is turning around. The working party has added 200 million. kr extra for transportation in our alternative budget. They want us to use them like this: Forty million. kr to a scheme designed to stimulate large cities to expand public services. Here the government part only has 2 million. DKK for the planning of the measure80 million. kr for railway applications, including 5 mill. kr to plan the Railway and Freight Terminal on Ganddal as a OPS project. Such a permission will make it possible to get started quickly, making it possible to build the freight terminal first, which is the only sensible thing. Opposite Order - The Railway First, as suggested by the Government, will cost 10-20 pst. more, leading to 40000–60000 new trailers on the road between Stavanger and Kristiansand for up to two years. The Labour Party hopes to get support for this within its final framework. We're going to spend 10 million. kr for further – and finally – planning of the Eidanger tunnel and 65 million. kr for the construction of new crossing tracks in Hedmark and in Nordland80 mill. kr for various road projects The rationale is: We will stimulate increased collective efforts to make the most of the use of collective means of transport. It's a good thing in itself, and it'll make it more accessible on the Norwegian road. It is important for business and for others who depend on how to use the road to get there.We want to increase investment in the railways, so that more goods can be moved from road to road. This is also a good thing in itself, as it is a more environmentally friendly transport. In addition, it will make it more visible to those who are still on the road. We will increase investment in the way, so that one takes the most interest in making them more accessible, not least for the business community. Hence, this is part of the Workers' Party's enterprise initiative. I mentioned earlier this evening Jens Petter Ekorenes, who has spoken hot for increased sales investment. Many farm owners and employees throughout the country are asking for the same thing. Jon Lilletun said there was a huge investment in public transport. Well, I'll say. There are many small and large clusters here, and at least there is a very ‘small-scale’ investment in the rest of the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1757	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1760	For several years, families with children have been deprived of an annual price adjustment in terms of family allowances. In the Action Plan against Poverty, the Government points out that child welfare is an important source of income for the low income group. It is unfair, and it is hardest for the poorest, when the 2003 government proposes to remove the infant supplement. Parents receiving cash support for their child will be fully compensated for the loss of the early childhood allowance by a corresponding increase in cash support. On the other hand, it does not do to young children’s parents who use kindergarten for their child. No, they lose $675 per person. months. The government allows to finance small children’s parents with kindergarten facilities reduced parental pay in kindergarten, even if they are not guaranteed reduced kindergarten price from 1 August. How can the Government defend such a priority? It allows some young children’s parents to finance other young children’s parents and prioritizes the parents who opt for cash support. This is done despite the fact that the intention of the cash support has not been achieved. Figures for the first half of 2002 show no significant change in the use of cash support compared to previous years. The support for cash has led to a negative trend in equality between young children’s parents, the participation of young children’s parents in work and the use of kindergarten. Furthermore, the cash support has led to more part-time work for low-paid women. This is an undesirable development that enumerates women who were low-paid with poor employment relationships and poorer chances of earning equivalent male pensions. SV liquidates the cash support in its alternative budget, adjusts child benefit, reintroduces the child allowance and believes that the maximum price in kindergarten, the legal right to babysitting, the improvement of the economy of young children’s parents, and attempts at the six-hour day give both mother and father greater freedom of choice and more time with children. This is more targeted economic help for the families of young children than tax havens, which hit completely arbitrarily. Finally, the most serious for me in relation to this draft budget: we have a negative development in our child and youth settings, which are increasingly characterised by drug use, gang violence, girl violence, bullying and child abuse. The 2003 government budget proposal does not take this seriously. Prevention efforts against children and young people are being lowered, and it is despite the fact that the Government is claiming the opposite. SV is adding 100 million to its alternative budget. to strengthen different projects and prevention activities for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1771	I am pleased that the government within a tight budget has found room for strong commitment to public transport. It is joyous, but it is also necessary to invest in this in the major urban areas, and it is particularly positive that it is made available to the T-Bahn in Oslo. In addition, the contribution is continued to other collective actions in Oslopakak 2. Investing in public transport is a prerequisite for getting environmentally friendly cities and for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. Oslo Municipality follows up the government's efforts and prioritises this highly. The municipal council now spends twice as much money on public transport as the Workers' Party and SV did when they had the power in Oslo. It's the distances in Norway that create edges. Therefore, good communication is important. We should listen to industry leaders in the districts who point out that a four-field road between Oslo and Gothenburg means as much to enterprises in Måløy as in Oslo. For the export-oriented fishing industry, which is constantly costing up to markets, it is equally important to remove the bottlenecks in the Gudbrand valley and Eastfold as in the Sogn and Fjordane. Much of the traffic from all over the country goes through Oslo and imposes heavy environmental pressures on the capital that cost business and health care large sums. One of the major problems related to car traffic is air pollution. The health effects associated with this are billions of money only for Oslo. Prosperity and speed are two important elements of this issue. In addition to a good road and public budget from the Government, the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party involves 150 million. Extra kroner and 30 million kroner. kr for public transport. That's good. I am pleased that the government has made use of the funds to start planning the Bjørvika tunnel, so that the project can proceed as planned. Bjørvika is today the country’s most heavily burdened crossroads, with almost 150 000 cars per day. The area is heavily noisy, with high concentrations of air pollution. The road system is complicated and difficult to read. Should the opera be finished before the lower tunnel, it will not have full functionality – with a location in the middle of a junction. In addition, it will be a challenge for the opera visitors to provide the current traffic machinery. Finally, the budget to be adopted by the Grand Duchy today is a good budget for the transport sector and transport users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1790	Of course, the party has different political priorities. For the Labour Party, there will be security for jobs, security for those who become unemployed, and security for important welfare services that are important. Therefore, the Labour Party has been strongly critical of the submission to the State budget and the agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party. This appointment does not correct the non-social cuts provided by the Government. The Labour Party is also disappointed that the Government and especially the Christian People's Party will not give more dollars to the schools. Right even argues that the schools don't need more money. I have not heard that the Christian People's Party has said. Everyone has to blame the parties for telling us what they mean. I am therefore very surprised when the Prime Minister says that the opposition is black-painting, and let himself be interviewed in the newspaper that he and his wife have had a heavy fall. Would that prevent us from saying what we mean, that it's petty to cut in the social welfare of single fronters? No, even though the Prime Minister has felt heavy, I am more concerned about those who don't get their everyday life to jump because the Government, for example. Cuts in pieces on blue prescription. Right-wing parliamentary leader said that in the debates in the autumn the Labour Party was running a game. It was parliamentary leader Nilsen who handed out the cards that we had. I actually thought I was in serious negotiations. If it was a game, there was a game from the Right side. Fortunately, today's Christian People's Party has said that they saw it so that the Labour Party did a serious job, so what kind of game Right has been running, that right must explain itself. Right-wing leader still says this evening that in negotiations one must also think of the counterparty, of the counterparty's pain limit, and of his apathy, and he referred to the demands of the Labour Party in the negotiations. I was in all the negotiations. I would like to know what it was in the claim of the Labour Party that was softening for the counterparty, and especially for the Right. Then it is not useful to refer to the Workers' Party's alternative budget. We went into the negotiations with serious faith that we could get something done. We didn't get that. For this reason, it is still important to point out that the social cuts must be corrected, that we need more money for the municipalities, and that the schools should be able to take care of all those students who need better education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1801	There has been a lot of talk about municipal economics here today. As an alternate, I may experience the municipal poverty closer to the body than many of you who have a firm hold here in the house. In two-and-a-half weeks' time, I'm going to be in and I'm going to adopt a new municipal budget marked by public poverty. Once again, we have to explain why we can't afford to give our inhabitants the people they want. We have to explain that the majority at Stortinget did not mean what they said in the election campaign this time either. We have to explain why five schools have to lie down only in our municipality, and why six-year-olds have to be sent out on a racial road in a school bus. We need to explain to parents why teachers do not have the ability to ‘look’ online their guts or girls, or give them the services they need to develop their abilities and resources. We have to explain to the relatives why the waiting lists to the sick home place increase, and why they have to tire out before the municipality manages to give an old mother or an old father an offer. We have to explain to them that they are added to the municipality, because it cannot be rented in temporary workers when someone is ill, so that the work accumulates, and colleagues have to do a double job. Does this create an inclusive working life? We have to explain why we can't afford to keep up with the same municipal buildings and roads before the crisis is there, the houses fall and the roads break down. And last, but not least, we have to explain why it is almost impossible to find money for the important prevention measures within culture and growth. There's a little bit of comfort, as many people have said today, that this has built up over time. Realities are just as hopelessly the same who is in debt. And to the main argument against increasing transfers to the municipalities: there is a difference between the consequences of using fresh funds and sharing or redistributing when it comes to warming up the economy. I am happy to represent a party that will increase the total allowability of municipalities by $8.5 billion. If there isn't a sub tonight, SV doesn't seem to get multiples for this this year either. However, I believe that the majority of the population is making fun of what is now happening in the country: the various local and district uprisings, the Right and Christian People's Party politicians in Ålesund who refuse to adopt a balanced budget because it is simply not possible to cut any more, the parents in Tromsø who will make their list at the next election in protest against cuts in the school supply. People are not stupid. They see the context or lack of coherence between words and actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1810	The representative Jens Stoltenberg claims that it is bad with the industry when the Right is in government – in the 1980s and now. Then it is worth reminding the representative Stoltenberg that it was actually the Right who took responsibility and made sure to reverse this negative development after the Labour Party's policy in the 1970s had led to record price increases, increasing unemployment and a free fall industry. It was actually the government Willoch who managed to reverse the negative development so that industry experienced several years of growth in the mid-1980s. When the government had to leave, the industry was still on its way up. So there's no evidence for such a statement. The Labour Party has recently spent a lot of time and effort painting the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party. But they do not want to show the back of the medal when it comes to their own alternative draft budget. The fact is that the Workers' Party, with its alternative budget proposal, would have created more pressure in the economy, which would threaten the jobs. The fact is that in its alternative budget proposal, the Labour Party has increased taxes by around DKK 4.3 billion, affecting individuals by a sharp increase in top taxes, an increase in housing taxes and a marked reduction in the tax deduction on gifts to non-governmental organisations. This is probably not consistent with the alleged social profile of the Workers' Party. The taxation burden on industry is increased by the reintroduction of double taxation on shares, the increase in taxes on unlisted shares and shares in the SME list, the tightening of the sharing model, the removal of employment options and the removal of tax deductions on health care and insurance paid by employers. This hard hit private ownership in business and helps to reduce the growth of the new jobs. You can't just say that the Workers' Party's alternative budget is an outstretched hand to a depressed business. I'd say it's rather a swing against business, the workplaces and people most. Unlike the Workers' Party's alternative draft budget, the budgetary agreement between the Cooperation Parties and the Progress Party is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. It provides a basis for continuing strong and competitive business and, in particular, it helps to secure jobs and to dampen the pressure on interest rates and the exchange rate. I am pleased that today we are getting through a budget that helps to change Norway, and to secure jobs, and that gives the individual more well-being and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1821	Every day there are serious signals from the Norwegian industry that you wear out. There's a lot of people who've been into this today. The enterprise after the enterprise cancels or cancels employees. Unemployment is increasing, and it comes in all types of enterprises. Long-term unemployment is still close by attaching the grip. So what happened in the 1980s during the Willoch government? The exact same thing that is happening today. Then you can talk about both the 1970s and more, but there's no doubt that we're inside the exact same spiral that we were inside in the 1980s. Unemployment increased, and the impact of the Right Policy was also seen at that time. The same thing repeats. You could say that history repeats itself. What is it that you do when unemployment increases? Well, you cut into the day-to-day pay system, so that the situation for those who become unemployed gets worse. Industrial workplaces disappear without any new build-up. In the 1990s, after all, 50 000 new jobs were created. Today it has disappeared approx. 2,000 every month, and it has to itself be a cross of thought. I fear, unfortunately, that our biggest challenge with this government will not be to reduce today's number of unemployed, but to prevent us from doubling the number. I hope I'm wrong. Time will show it. With the government budget adopted this evening, in my opinion, everyday life is going to make the average Northman worse. We now depend on getting a new alternative of solidarity. That's what happened in the 1990s, and that's what was saved, both for Norwegian industry and for business. It was the LO and the Workers' Party that took a great responsibility, so that it was implemented. Now we have to come back with a new solidarity option, so that Norwegian industry and Norwegian economy are saved. Otherwise I think it'll go pretty wrong. It worked in the 1990s, and that kind of medicine, I think, also has to do now. Nor does it strengthen the development of districts and industries with constant cuts. So finally, it seems to me, after hearing the debate today, that the Progress Party has not been involved in this budgetary agreement. It is believed that you have been involved in the agreement, but you do not want to admit that you have been involved in the Bondevik II administration. You can't ignore these relationships. Finally, we will see the effects of the Bondevik II government policy with the full support of the Progress Party. That's what Norwegian people should notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1834	I did not finish my main post. That is why I have asked for a three-minute post. We don't use the labour force we have. Nevertheless, the government is talking about the pressure in the economy and the tight labour market. Should long-term high unemployment create international competitiveness? In which fields are we to compete when Norwegian framework conditions have pushed the industry out of Norway and by means of SND placed it in Poland or in the Baltic region, when the right to use the coastal zone has been sold out of the country, and numerous Spanish fishermen – or fishermen from the Baltic region or China – have taken over from Norwegian fishermen? It is not obvious that we are allowed to work on Norwegian fishing boats when we are done here at Stortinget. We can sit on the quaikant and dangle with our legs, because we don't get any work. The MAI agreement is not dead. It is part of the WTO and today it is called investment agreement, where those who have the most money and invest in Norway or in other countries, for example. in developing countries, shall be exempt from national rules and shall be secured by investment. When an integrated power market has priced out the Norwegian competitive advantage of clean industrial power and reasonable electricity prices to the people most, we are left with high unemployment, are praised for the value of other countries and are more oil dependent than ever before. Norway has the best starting point for economic growth in Europe, provided that we own and control the resources and have sufficient knowledge to enable it to be exploited in an environmentally sound way. Then we need to define the tightness of the budget in terms of the costs of modernising and developing a large country with widespread settlement, the need for increased research and equivalence in the provision of services across the country. Then we have to take back the national right of self-determination and base our relationship with Europe on bilateral agreements, not subjugated by an EEA agreement that eats in areas where we were initially sovereigns. The government's complicity in these matters may be fatal to our ability to value when oil revenue falls. New growth for Norway based on its own forces and resources is the vision that characterises the Coastal Party and the draft budget we present tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1852	The representatives from the Right – Fleet and Hansen – said in their speeches here tonight that the government we now have is the first one after the war with a plan for targeted action against poverty. I have to say, after such a long debate, I think it's important that the words don't go in our head. I think that both a Gerhardsen, a Hambro, a Lyng and a Leirfall would disagree with such a description. Governments after the war have just been concerned about efforts to combat poverty. I dare unscathed enough say that the Workers' Party should have the credit of a good part of it. The Joint School was part of such a plan against poverty and still is. The home bank was and is part of such a plan. Our social security systems were and are part of such a plan. The fight against and prevention of crime is also part of such a plan. And the Workers' Party has been there all along. More well-being results in less crime, and more crime results in less well-being. So how people have it, social living conditions and the possibility of self-development are related to the amount and type of crime in a society. Therefore, the financial debate is also the place to point out the consequences of what is now happening in Norwegian policy, and point to some lines. It is important to respond to crime. The reaction must be rapid and tactile. Several types of offences require severe responses. Someone is obviously too mild today. We cannot, however, stare blindly at the criminal reaction alone. An effective criminal policy means having several thoughts in your head at once. It is while recreational clubs are being laid down because of poor municipal economy, for example at Furuset in Oslo, that the response to the problem of drug use in Norwegian prisons is being weakened and the measures in criminal care are only getting worse and worse for the growing number of prisoners, and the queue for our prisons is increasing. This is in total an animal and inappropriate policy that does not contribute to reducing crime. We know that the communities that have unilaterally thought more police, more severe punishments and more prisons are, in fact, the countries that are currently struggling with the highest crime rate. It is the same country that has invested in deregulation, tax relief and extensive privatisation, which is struggling with increasing social wear and tear. A little popularly said, the market rarely takes advice to a leisure club. There's a need for a settlement with this idea. It is the poor community economy, cut into the school leisure system, cut into the cultural budget and downgrade public schools that are serious estimates in the fight against increased crime. There is therefore little help with more severe punishments and police when prisoners carry only the troubles out of prison and have neither housing, school nor work. It is therefore sad that the government parties do not follow up the proposals made by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left on, among other things, a significant increase in investment. Criminal services, when they have such faith in putting criminals in prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1865	I have followed my first financial debate from my place here in the Chamber with great interest for almost half a day. I have heard many wise women and men speaking well-chosen words in the best of intentions. I also have great faith that everyone will do the very best for Norway as a nation and for those who live here. But then it's once that there's a pretty big disagreement about what's really best for the country and for the inhabitants. With my background, I record in particular that the majority of the population sit still and watch the school offer weakening in most municipalities, the provision to those in need of care, the weakening of the cultural offer, and the cessation of the development of individual communities. Of course, I could frame a wide range of important areas where the offer is getting worse for most people. In addition, charges, user payments and rents are increased around municipalities – all in order to adapt to new framework conditions, and all this is contrary to advice from local politicians from all parties. This has built up over several years, said the Prime Minister from this pulpit earlier this evening. Yeah, it's probably got it. But the gap has never, definitely never, at least in my 15 years as a local politician, been bigger between the number of dollars needed to maintain the well-being of the people most around the country, and the number of dollars the municipalities receive through tax and framework. The fact should worry the Prime Minister. The Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Labour and Administration would probably have replied slightly differently than the Prime Minister. The message from the Right Councils is more efficient, and a representative from one of these departments explained to us at a meeting in Molde earlier this fall what this really means. Indeed, in central and urban communities this is to be read as a competitive outsourcing and privatisation, while in the smaller urban areas the country is to be read as a municipal pool. Finally, it is also with great amazement that I am recording the reduction in regional policy instruments. The government itself has appointed the county councils as regional development actors, and not least the representatives of the two smallest government parties have more than suggested filling the municipal food funds through this budget, albeit in a slightly new way. Therefore, it is worth noting that the Government, in its agreement with the Progress Party, has reduced the regional policy instruments by over 100 million. kr. These two relationships, local economy and regional policy instruments, are examples of and show priorities that show what I started with: there is a different perception of what is actually best for the country, and what is best for us who live here. Other examples that could, of course, also have been used are the allocation policy and the need for a targeted industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1879	The municipal economy is miserable in many municipalities, and it's even worse next year. It was cut at school, in the care of the elderly, in the school leisure system, in the leisure clubs and in the cultural offer. Parents, young people and older people stand up in protest all over the country. The Prime Minister calls this black paint. It was especially when representatives from the Christian People's Party on the Stortinget – from Eastfold and other counties – were active lobbying in order for the Workers' Party to accept a Right-Budget, a Right-Budget with DKK 3 billion for the municipalities. Of course, the Workers' Party could not accept that. Ashim Municipality is a municipality in economic crisis. The municipality must save many tens of millions to next year. This particularly affects the elderly. They're moving around. Some people have already moved twice this year, and now they're going to move again. The older ones rage and say that this is simply rotting. They feel disqualified. The employees have received a mouth basket. The relatives say that the elderly no longer have the quality of life. If the Right-Rapporteur could get a few more dollars, he wouldn't have had to do this to the elderly. Because he has plans to be elected again for next year. That's not what worries the Workers' Party and me; it's the bad treatment the older ones get, which is worrying. The party leadership was horrified when Bondevik and his government presented the state budget and proposed to remove it. the gravitational assistance. Such unsocial hesitation would have Carl I. Hagen asked himself! And never in the world would the Progress Party on behalf of the Norwegian people accept props on the blue recipe for retired and disabled people. Think to expose the elderly and the poor to such! This was a proposal for which the Progress Party had fought for many years. No, they would never accept this! However, as is well known, such objections disappear easily in the Advance Party under the influence of lower alcohol charges, lower charges for caravans and mopeds. Today, this proposal is quite right. Finally, I have listened to the debate today, where very many speakers from the government parties have boasted that this is a budget for the poor. Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said in the speech debate: ‘I am proud to lead a government that fights for those who suffer the most, for the poor and for the persecuted.’ Yes, it is strange that the budget adopted here this evening affects the most vulnerable refugees in the world, namely the quota refugees. From next year, the ratio will be halved. It is shameful for a country as rich as Norway, and it is shameful that we take these 30 million to find money for tax relief for those who already have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1899	Several have pointed out in the debate the strong words used by the opposition parties in the presentation of the budget. I am not going to repeat any of them today, but I am pleased to note that the use of words has become much more muffled now. But the wording back then put its mark on the public debate, and the opposition succeeded in creating a general negativeism and sour mood in the people. The criticism of the opposition is particularly directed at the Christian People's Party, and it is in itself a paradox when the same opposition parties on their knees are asking the Christian People's Party for support. It says that the one you love, you discipline, but I'm not so sure that it's a love that's behind the sinks of the past few weeks. After experience in the last days of the Committee on Transport, this is probably much more an expression of frustration over the loss of influence for its own batch. Now, luckily, the media debate has taken a new turn lately, and more people are asking the question: why don't we feel better when we're doing so well? Perhaps we have more than enough to live by in Norway, but we need something to live for! Garborg has expressed itself as follows: 'The scale of all things can be a few for money. But not the kernel...' We are therefore proud in the Christian People's Party that the Government has prioritised the close things: family, growth and the community. It is the close relationships in an early life phase that form the basis for a meaningful youth and adult life. It must be strong back to carry good times, it is called, and the back exercises must be taught in early growth. Christian People's Party will therefore protect the family. We think that parents have the best conditions for raising their children. Therefore, cash support for small children’s families is increased in the budget, and parents are given greater freedom to choose what they think is best for their children. Increased support for voluntary children’s and youth organisations has also been provided, and the tax-free amount for voluntary donations has increased to NOK 6000. In addition, there is a record investment in more and cheaper kindergartens. Voluntary child and youth work has a triple function in the community. It provides meaningful content to adult leaders, good recreational activities for children and young people and, not least, support to parents in the mission business. The Christian People's Party is committed to supporting parents in exposed positions. Therefore, the Government is moving in to increase support for family protection and to strengthen marriage and lasting commitment. The Christian People's Party will build a warmer society with Christian values. That's why the government has taken the consequences of this. It wants to secure the religious training through the Church and is already adding 5 million this year. kr to the measure. In the long term, you're going to spend 250 million. DKK for such valuable cultural and religious training work. This is good Christian People's Party policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1921	One should not be a great wizard to see that the situation on the labour market next year becomes difficult. Already in the current year, we have seen that unemployment has increased sharply. Aetat track forecasts in 2003 a total of 87 000 unemployed on average. In other words, one is fast approaching 100,000 unemployed. In the case of long-term unemployed, the number was 22,200 at the end of October this year. This is 43 pst. more than one year ago. Causes are less demand for labour and reduced opportunities to participate in ordinary labour market measures. In this context, the Labour Party believes that it is right to have a tight budget for lower interest rates and a weaker exchange rate. In addition, it is important to focus offensively on labour and industrial policies, as the Labour Party does in its alternative budget, by spending 2.3 billion dollars to secure and create jobs. The working party proposes 1 700 new action places and a strengthening of Aetat, so that the unemployed can be more quickly disseminated and the waiting time reduced. Exportright industries and other competitive enterprises are in a serious crisis. Only in the last six months have 2000 industrial jobs lost every month. This marks a good in many parts of the country, and not least in my own region, Grenland, where large industrial giants reduce their activity. The government is passive here and watching, even if this leads to increasing unemployment and, at the same time, weakening our basis for value creation and well-being. In addition, the Government Party and the Advance Party are seriously weakening the day-to-day arrangements, and this is both unsocial and unsound. A narrowing in this area will make those who are unemployed thin and roll over the bill to the social budget of the municipalities, without the unemployed getting to work more quickly. And with the economic framework of the municipal sector that the majority set up, it will not be so that the municipalities take on this expenditure with joy. It's not that only one press and thins the unemployed hard enough, they'll find new jobs. It's failed. On the contrary, it turns out that poor performance results in the unemployed becoming poorer jobseekers. The result of this reduction may be that older unemployed people are forced to seek disability benefits or early retirement. I have great understanding that the Christian People's Party sees its local politicians around the country in the dark of the future. Some smular to the Christian People's Party here and there do not choose for that party to tolerate right-wing politics. I can understand the Christian People's Party spokespersons who are now questioning the poverty profile of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1934	It's sad to see how bad the cultural field has come out on next year's government budget. But they should, the government writes it clearly: ‘The budget does not reflect the level of ambition of the government in the cultural and church sphere.’ And the consequence of this also describes: ‘As a consequence, the moderate nominal increase in the budget framework implies in practice a lower level of activity in most cultural institutions.’ It also says equally clearly that the Ministry of Culture and the Church does not have: ‘found it possible to follow up the Storting's assumption that the new funds for free funds and local and regional cultural buildings should not be at the expense of similar appropriations in the State budget’. These are priorities that have not had a majority in Stortinget, and we would have expected that in an agreement with one of the parties that was behind the agreement to change the key, this money would come back to its proper place in the budget. A little surprised, we see that the agreement with the Progress Party does not contain any such grip. «More culture-seire for FrP» is one of the headlines on the website of the Progress Party today. They refer to some items for which they have been passed, including: Three million. in increased appropriations for Freefonds. According to the agreement The Progress Party did with the Workers' Party and SV, it should have been added 12,2 million. kr. They're getting into place less than a quarter of what they were into a few months ago just at this post. Another part of the agreement is the entry ‘Local and regional cultural buildings’. There's more than 40 million missing. kr – according to the department enough money to start setting up 8 regional and 124 local cultural buildings. ‘Sieer’, the Party of Advancement calls it when they get back the change in settlement with the Government. With the agreement that is now on the table, the party of progress shows that agreements with them must be treated as fresh. The next time I'm going to negotiate with the Advance Party, I'm going to be more careful to look at the date marking. The agreement with the Progress Party on the modification of the key has clearly been marked: limited durability, best before 1 December 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1960	As an old local politician, there's one thing that makes me oxygen, or hurt, to speak rich language. That's the way we're dealing with the municipal sector now. The municipal sector is the main provider of welfare services in Norway. Here we have the care of the elderly, here we have the cultural services, here we have the school, here we have the kindergartens. And it's in this sector that we're growing up now actually tightening up so that they get trouble doing the job that we all think is so important. We read that old people get bathed only once a week, that they don't get cake for coffee, etc. I don't think it's worth the Norwegian society that we're going to keep on like that. However, had it been in need in the country, or if we had had a significant problem, so that we had to tighten everything up, yes, then I would have had an understanding that the municipal sector also had to take part. But that's not the situation. Now that Christmas is approaching, many of us are wondering what we're going to think about buying Christmas presents this year. What are we going to buy for the kids? What are we going to buy for the relatives – because they already have everything? But yet we are increasingly granting ourselves in private wealth. More and more will be used for private consumption when we have more than enough material things from before – while the swimming pools will be empty and old people will have to stand over the bath. And there are a number of other things that we can't afford in the public sector, or in the municipal sector, to be more precise. I think we're making a mistake – not in a year, but if we keep strangling the municipalities as strongly as we've done in recent years, thus building up the most important welfare producer. Then I think Norway is making a mistake. We can't go on like that. I think in the years to come, we have a collective responsibility to work for the local government sector to once again get the framework and conditions so that it can really provide services to the population – services that all of them, regardless of background, regardless of income, benefit from. We have to take that inwards. We cannot continue to grant ourselves severe increases in private wealth while the public sector, or local government, must bleed as it does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1971	The husband of jam and black paint! That is what has constantly shaped the debate throughout the day. If it's so dark and black, it might be time for someone to turn on the light. I noticed that all the representatives from the SV and the Workers' Party have spent most of their time blackmailing the situation in Norway. Spreading such pessimism around the country will at least not make it easier to develop. That's my claim. The representative Schjött-Pedersen from the Workers' Party used 50 pst. of its contribution to the Progress Party. Kristin Halvorsen spent two thirds of his post on the Progress Party. In addition, Schjøtt-Pedersen performed in a reply to Kristin Halvorsen to ask her to consider the budgetary agreement. Isn't it time for these parties to talk about their own policies? Then we'll see what happens next year in relation to this black paint that has emerged today. I'm not going to talk so much about the local economy now, because we're going to take that debate to the trade committee later. It's interesting to note that the differences between municipalities are increasing, but that's because the transfers and the income system to the municipalities are set up as such by the parties that have been most critical today. There are an incredible number of municipalities that have given feedback that things are going well. There are 100 municipalities that have made a deficit in 2001, the remaining municipalities have been in balance or surplus. So the general picture of Kommune-Norge is not as dramatic as this one says. In relation to the budget of the Progress Party, municipalities will have NOK 203 billion in income. The progress party cuts $3 billion, 1.48 p.m., and that is the death of the municipalities. But nothing is said about what the Progress Party is doing on the other side in relation to the municipalities. We're actually transferring a few billion dollars as well, while we see that there is an efficiency potential. It is not the Progress Party that says that, but some investigations – among other things. also from Jens Stoltenberg’s time – shows that there is potential for efficiency improvement. And just to take an example of it: Hellerud City in Oslo, with 16,000 inhabitants, has actually found $10 million more, which they return to care, school, etc. It's because they've streamlined and found opportunities to do it. Of course, municipalities can also find such opportunities. So finally some words about unemployment. Yes, there have been changes here. But see, for example, to Sweden and Denmark, who have made these arrests and got people out of work. In Sweden, unemployment benefits cannot exceed 14 months until you are forced into another system. I'm a little surprised when the representative Oppebøen Hansen and others from the Workers' Party say we need to have faster communication – faster communication to what? We first need to have some jobs that we can distribute to these unemployed people. When the Workers' Party gets rid of jobs and then they're going to send people to the same jobs they've laid down, I'm going to be like a big question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1982	The Prime Minister, in his speech today, stressed that the Government had presented a poverty plan and that it was important. As if it were to mean something in itself, when the content of the poverty plan is only smoldering in relation to the huge redistribution that takes place elsewhere in society between the poor and the rich, for the benefit of the rich. A year ago, we all agreed that it was a shame that there was poverty in a rich country, and in particular that there were children living under such conditions – and that they continue to live like this for many years. Now the government has spent a whole year trying to define itself away from who's poor. And when the government has now found someone that it thinks is poor, it makes them even poorer. The right has won with its entire ideology in the distribution debate. The poor will only work if they become poor enough, while the rich will only work if they become richer. There is an understanding in the government that it is important that the poor get little enough, because then they get together and start working. There is an understanding that the poor and the rich must be treated in a completely different way. It's completely different from what was the starting point of the Equalization message, as the Bondevik I government presented to the Stortinget. I want to take special note of what this is like for children. Children in poor families are hit twice, because they depend entirely on the local economy being good. They lose when the SFO is laid down or becomes too expensive, because then they can't be allowed to be in the arena that other children are in. They lose when the school is not good enough to break the social heritage – which makes it possible for the school to go to the theater, to afford to visit the old home, to afford to visit businesses, to afford to offer adapted training, and not to be absolutely impossible to get special education and an offer that is good enough. What is almost the worst – and I think that the Prime Minister should notice – is what is happening in housing policy. For this Government shall be the government of the family, and the protection of the family. But what is the starting point? Well, it's that you have a place to live. There are still families with children in Norway who do not have a place to live. Is there anyone who can figure out what it feels like to be a young child when it realizes that parents don't know where to live in a month? You know Mom and Dad don't have money. You also know, because you've seen that many times when your parents have been to the social office and asked for help, that there's no help to get. I could imagine asking the Prime Minister: How long does he think it is reasonable that some children should live in such great uncertainty, when we are so rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1993	The representative Per Sandberg has asked for the floor to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e1996	It was scarcely time in place, but on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left I am promoting proposal No. 31, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2001	It was not the time that was short, it was the representative who had too much to say!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2004	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. That's the way it is for most of us. It should be easier to create so that all the inhabitants of this country could recognize themselves in such a description. When the Central Party used strong words about the Government's budget proposal, it was because some strange and unacceptable priorities clearly opposed us. The Centre Party shall give priority to 2003 in particular:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t measures for competitive business and beyond a link between the freehands with work done in the transport sector, a strengthened community economy to secure the community and to give local communities the opportunity for a more dignified care and a good public school, and a fairer distribution of the obligations of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre together, and we will work for better public services, a more finmasked social security network, a more social housing policy, a softer working line and a more equitable tax system The Prime Minister spoke of the reactions to the State budget with wonder, and almost with a hint of contempt. It must be legitimate to respond to the Government’s emphasis on business neutrality rather than safeguarding today’s outsourced jobs. The Prime Minister is not surprised that we are responding to a lack of resources for the local government sector. The Christian People's Party had the Prime Minister when the consultation arrangement with KS was established. The aim was a common understanding of the numerical basis of the municipalities. Then there is no lack of common understanding. However, the government will not follow up with the necessary resources. No one can owe Right for missing follow-up. It is right-wing policy to reduce transfers to municipalities. But by the Christian People's Party both the Center Party and many of the Christian People's Party had expected their own better. Most notably, the reactions of the Central Party were on the missing bias profile in the budget, a profile which, unfortunately, has not been corrected in the budget agreement with the Progress Party. Cut off until scarce funds to the districts and ugly and unsocial cuts to the sick and the unemployed remained standing. Honor the Christian People's Party for standing firm when it comes to the aid budget. The greater was the surprise of a poverty package in which the inclusion is to be taken by the poor themselves, and tax reliefs to us who have more than DKK 320,000 in income are to be referred to as tax reliefs for people with normal incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2030	I would like to touch on some of the social and health policy issues related to the State budget. That's the most important thing about our welfare. The government’s budget did not give any very good signals in this regard. It was based on self-proprietion, on a reversal of the blue prescription system that came into force three days before the state budget was presented now in October, and at all a collection of things that went the wrong way. Last fall, before this government joined, the government made an agreement with the NHO and LO on sick leave, and this agreement was intended to lower sick leave and create a more inclusive working life. We know that we still have a lot in health queues. It's like 250,000 in this line. Every Northman is away from work on average one month a year because of illness. This represents more than 220000 annual works. It is a very large cost factor for the country and for the state budget. More than 7,000 annual works were lost last year due to waiting in hospital queues. In this context, the sickness funds amount to approx. 2 billion kroner, and the production losses in the companies and for our production life are intended to rise in about the same amount. This means that we have a job to do here. A more inclusive working life is also a matter for the public. But not least, it's a matter for the state, at the Government and the Storting, to get to a health service that can treat people for their diseases and rehabilitate them, so that they get back to work. We see little sign of will in this state budget. We believe that healthcare companies and our specialist health services need more resources, as well as the rehabilitation sector. Not least our training institutions need to get a better economy in order to put people back into work. This government is talking about volunteering. The volunteer centres are an exciting project, which turns out to bear good fruit in a cooperation between the state, the municipality and the private. Nor is there any willingness to invest to make it go further and to get more volunteer centres in. Mr Bondevik has said that there have been humiliating demands in budgetary negotiations. Such a requirement must be true in the case of the alcohol duty reduction. However, it seems that there are good excuses for this. Among other things, the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, in a row this evening, made this tax cut on alcohol in the budget agreement with the Progress Party a pro-million-dollar issue about the transfer of money on the state budget. There is something quite different that is the consequence of such a proposal that the Christian People's Party is now involved in this state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2043	The school is an important matter, and I have a great understanding of the involvement and care of the Norwegian school by both the opposition parties and the government parties. There is one thing about the three opposition parties, which refers to itself as the beginning of a future majority government, which amazes me in that context. In its alternative draft budget, the Central Party will cut 100 million. the appropriations for private schools. The working party is going to cut 400, and SV is just as good as 1 billion. They will certainly be able to agree on how much they will collect to cut if the time comes. But none of them say a divisive word about what they intend to do with the law of private schools, which makes it a right for these schools to receive grants at specified rates. It's amazingly easy. The other thing that surprises me is that it is presented as if resource problems in public school could be solved in that way. After all, there will be no more or fewer students in the Norwegian primary school in total by perhaps squeezing students who are currently attending private schools back to the public school. On the contrary, each of the students will cost approx. 30 pst. more per cent years than today's society pays in grants to these students when they go to private schools. So it's really going to increase the resource gap in public school. What is most surprising, however, from a political point of view, is that the same three parties regard this as an invitation to the Christian People's Party to join a future government constellation. It's a mildly private invitation. Because if there is any party that has been involved – along with the Right – in foreshadowing the fundamental democratic right of parents to choose a school alternative if they have reason for it, then so is the Christian People's Party. The three parties that intend to frustrate the provision of private schools in this country – because that is really what you want – either want Norway to cancel the international conventions we are bound to respect parental rights, or they will introduce a truly complete economic class distinction into Norwegian school. Because if you take away the grant to private schools, you're guaranteed one result, which is that it's only the parents who have unusually good advice, who can make use of the freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2058	During the debate, two proposals were distributed in the Chamber, No. 31 and No Thirty-two. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that these proposals will replace the corresponding proposals in the vote. This is because agreement has been reached during the day, both in the Municipal Committee and in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which has implications for the decisions to be taken in the Chamber today. Therefore, the proposals have now been distributed and will be replaced by those already in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2065	Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2073	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2080	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Finance on the 2003 State and National Budget be annexed to the minutes of the Grand Duchy meeting on 3 October 2002. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2089	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. In Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox A total of 18 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's: proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 2, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 3, by Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 4-11, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 12-14, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Left-wing Socialist Group, 15, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 16 and 17, by Mr Lund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party In the votes that follow, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward by increasing size. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2325	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2537	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a change in the rules of action for the use of oil money to allow for increased use of oil money where this can help reduce the pressure on the economy by removing the available labour force, costly bottlenecks for industry, the use of available capacity in some areas of society or reducing large public expenditure items in the long term.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2550	Proposals Nos. 12–14, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 12 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e2771	Proposals Nos. 4-11, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3189	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to clarify Norway’s Bank’s monetary policy mandate so that the inflation target is balanced against the objective of a stable krone price and production and employment considerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3204	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3411	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coast Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The Regulation of the Swedish Social Security Fund is amended as follows:§ 5 shall be replaced by the following:The Board shall be responsible for placing the funds of the Fund for the best possible return, taking into account the security and liquidity requirements. The Management Board shall ensure that a safe risk management system is in place for the management of the Fund. The funds of the Fund may be placed in Norwegian bearer bonds and certificates, such as bank accounts and deposits in commercial or savings banks. Within a frame of 20 pst. the management capital of the fund may be placed in shares listed on the Norwegian stock exchange or on the stock exchange in Denmark, Finland or Sweden, and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance of shares in Norwegian companies, where the shares are subject to regular and organised trading, listed basic funds certificates in Norwegian savings banks, credit associations and mutual insurance companies, and listed convertible bonds and quoted bonds with warrants for shares in Norwegian companies. The total placement in shares listed on the stock exchange in Denmark, Finland or Sweden shall not exceed 20 pst. of the public funds framework for share placements. Within the framework of share placements, the fund may participate in issues in unlisted shares of Norwegian companies. The placement in such shares may not exceed 2,5 pst. The second paragraph shall not preclude the Folketrück Foundation from retaining shares in Norwegian companies which, in connection with the purchase of shares, are merging or otherwise. changes the status of a foreign company.The fund may also, within the overall framework of 20 pst. of the fund's capital, enter equity deposits in the form of unlisted papers, in the event that the fund is at risk of suffering significant losses on exposures to debt securities. In that case, this must be part of a coordinated action, involving a dominant group of creditors and where the sole objective of the fund is to safeguard the interests of the fund. The Social Security Fund may hold shares for up to 15 pst. of total share capital or unit trust capital of a single company in Norway. The Social Security Fund may hold shares for up to 3 pst. of the total capital of a single company in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. The Board of Directors may issue short-term loans if appropriate.The Fund may, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance, conclude sale and repurchase agreements relating to equity instruments and interest-bearing instruments in which the transferee of the instruments is under the contractual obligation to return them to the seller.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3452	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3747	This Roman numeral is a transmission decision in its form, and the President proposes that it be transmitted to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Then we come to a series of Roman numerals, where we have different majority constellations. The President shall refer to the position of the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3762	Here the government parties, the Progress Party and the Center Party will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3782	Here, the Government Parties, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3803	Here the government parties, the Progress Party and the Center Party will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3823	Here the government parties, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3826	President! The centre party is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3872	Here, as the President understands, the Government Parties and the Advance Party will vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3893	The Government Parties, the Advance Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3906	The president understands that there were many who voted wrong. Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3925	Here the Government Parties and the Advance Party will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3945	The Government Parties, the Advance Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e3966	Here the Government Parties and the Advance Party will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4001	Here the Central Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4045	The Committee's suspension is supported by the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the rest being opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4086	The Committee's suspension is supported by the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the rest being opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4106	The Government Parties, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have announced that they will support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4139	It was supposed to be all the voting on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4146	Case No. 3 applies to budget revenue. S. No 1 Appendix No 1st@item: inlistbox A total of 32 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1, 6, 11 and 18, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 2, 7, 12, 26 and 27, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 16, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 20-25, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 3, 8, 13, 17 and 28, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 19 from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 4, 9, 14 and 30, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 29, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 5, 10 and 15, by Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of Coastal Party proposal No. 31, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 32, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left The proposals are included in the vote, with the exception of proposals Nos. 31 and 32, which are distributed in the seats of the representatives. In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such decisions were taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the minority proposals put forward in this case will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1–17 in the setting that will now be voted over. Proposals Nos. 18-30 are independent of the framework, so these will be over. Proposals Nos. 31 and 32 the President will come back later. The President then first refers to voting on the framework-independent minority proposals. There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and submit proposals for exemptions from the inheritance tax on the property of business by generation change in family-owned enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4203	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a scheme in which non-governmental organisations are subject to the VAT law at zero exit rate from 1 January 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4216	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision asks the Government to submit a proposal for the repeal of the special rules for shipping companies in the tax law § 8-10 flg. with effect from the year 2002, and propose appropriate transitional rules.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4231	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 27, from the Party of Advancement: Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to continue tax deductions on child contributions by contributors.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals in the Revised National Budget for 2003 that the annual fee be paid only for the part of the year in which the vehicle is registered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4253	Proposals Nos. 20-25, from the Party of Advancement and the Coastal Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy on the levy on the State Treasury on inheritance and gifts for the 2002 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows:§ 4 shall be replaced by the following: Of inheritance and gifts to the child of the heir/donor, the foster child — including the stepchild who has been raised by the heir/donor — and parents, the following shall be replied: Of the first NOK 290,000 of the next NOK 300,000, Pst 6.50. Of the excess amount18.50 pst. Section 5 is replaced by the following: Of inheritances and gifts not covered by Section 4, the following answers: Of the first 200,000 kronerIndeed of the next 300,000 kroner 9,00 pst. of excess amount28.75 pst.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to wind up the environmentally-differentiated annual tax scheme for diesel vehicles.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose, in the context of the revised national budget, to wind up the system of weighted annual fee based on two suspension systems.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission by the Government of proposals for tax rates to convert the final treatment tax system for waste into non-returnable waste.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote a plan for the closure of the levy on chocolate and sugar products by the end of the 2004 budget.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a plan for the closure of the basic charge for drinking packaging as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2004 State budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4344	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to return to the Revised National Budget for 2003 with a model for a differentiated consumption tax on electricity for households. Such a model must contain incentives for power saving when low consumption is introduced and increase the burden of higher consumption. Recreational buildings shall have the highest rates.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4359	Proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party, as far as the President understands, is converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government arrange for the conclusion of an agreement with the industries concerned on a fee/pension scheme which includes a reimbursement scheme for HFC/PFC gas collected.’; The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 19. The President notes that there are minority proposals from the Workers' Party, from the Progress Party, from the Socialist Left Party, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. One, two, three, four, five. As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of section 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4583	The President assumes that those who have proposals wish to vote against, with the exception of those parties which have guaranteed majority voting, i.e. The Government Parties and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4597	For Framework Area 20 there are proposals from the Workers' Party, from the Progress Party, from the Socialist Left Party and from the Coastal Party. That is the proposal No. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, which are now going to cancel out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4741	The President assumes that the vote will be the same as in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e4754	We have now reached Framework Area 23, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and revenues for the next year. There are proposals from the Labour Party, from the Progress Party, from the Socialist Left Party, from the Centre Party and from the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15. These proposals also lapse. There is a proposal here which is an alternative to III on page 53, and it will be raised to voting after the rest of the framework area 23 has been voted on. That is proposal No. 31. Similarly, there is a proposal to replace point IX(10) on page 71. Both proposals are submitted after the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the Stortinget vote on these proposals tonight. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Only the Committee's position on Framework Section 23 will be contested, with the exception of point III and point IX.10.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e9998	The President expects us to have the same vote as during the last vote of the respective parties present in the Chamber tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e10011	We shall then vote on proposal No. 31, from Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left, to III under Framework Area 23. The proposal reads as follows: «IIIDetermination of the municipal and county income taxor for the 2003 income yearBased on by Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e10038	After this vote, the motion for a resolution under III on page 53 of the vote lapses. Then there is to be a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Right, the Party of Advances, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to point 10 of IX under the Framework Area 23. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e10277	When it is voted separately, SV will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e10294	After this vote, the motion for a resolution under item IX, paragraph 10, on page 71 of the vote, lapses. Then there is still to be a vote over the frame area 24. There are minority proposals from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party and the Socialist Left Party – these are the proposals No. 16 and 17. These proposals are also obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-02-2.ana.ud1292e10762	The President assumes that it is the traditional vote in this framework area.
