ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e118	From 16 December to 18 December, the representative, André Kvakkestad, will apply for leave to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Budapest. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e136	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e139	On behalf of the representative Karin Andersen and myself, I will be presented with proposals for legislative changes to ensure that religious and life-vision minorities receive equal treatment in relation to services and seremony in relation to graveyards and cemeteries, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e144	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e161	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two, so as to deal first with the 3 Culture Framework, and then with the 1 Government Framework, and 2 Family and Consumer. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In doing so, the President will draw attention to the need for all those who are to make proposals to make these proposals during the first debate. At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate on Framework Area 3 be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate on Framework Areas 1 and 2 be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 15 minutes each and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes after each of the debates. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e182	Norway needs a cultural policy. As important as the visions of what we're going to live on, the visions of what we're going to live for. In a society that becomes richer and richer in material goods, we need the non-material values, experiences, enrichments, new recognitions, thoughtfulness and depression. After all, when material needs are met, this is what makes life rich — experiences with others, art that blows new borders, the experience of beauty, provocations and surprises, and not least the possibility of self-expression in cultural activities. We have a rich cultural life in Norway. We have skilled artists, we have institutions and free groups at a high international level, and not least we have a great cultural activity among people most around the country: choirs, orchestras, theater groups, folk dance and lots of other things. It's a result of a years of conscious policy of increasingly investing more in art and culture, of giving our artists ever better opportunities to create, of giving the culture of the people even richer job opportunities. It's all the fires that are engaged in all this, that create the rich cultural life. Our task as cultural politicians is to make the best possible use of art and culture, to build out the arenas where one can unfold and meet, to ensure that artists can live on their art, and to ensure that volunteers can use their forces on culture and not on money collection and tombs. Our task is also to set new, ambitious goals for Norway as a cultural nation and to help us all reach even further, that we should lift ourselves up after the hairs. Last year, Minister of Culture Ellen Horn was able to present the cultural budget of the Stoltenberg government, a proposition which began as follows: ‘The government’s objective for cultural policy is to raise, renew and revitalise Norwegian cultural life. A step-up in culture towards Norway’s 100-year celebration as an independent nation is envisaged in 2005. The action plan covers both cultural institutions and professional art, as well as the public, voluntary, local cultural and media spheres. Like all smaller cultures and linguistic areas in the world, the identity, language and cultural heritage of Norway is challenged by globalisation. When we want to shape the future, the government wants an increased focus and focus on culture." Ellen Horn provided a budget that increased by 330 million. kr, near 9 pst., one of the biggest increases ever. This year's contrast could hardly have been greater. On the first page of the budget proposal, the Minister of Culture writes that, taking into account VAT reform, pension expenditure and salary settlements, ‘the moderate nominal increase in the budget framework implies in practice a lower level of activity of most cultural institutions’. Clearly, it cannot be said that the ambition for stepping up, the ambition for bet, is replaced by cutting. The reason is the need for tightness. The Minister for Culture further writes: ‘The budget does not reflect the level of ambition of the government in the cultural and church sphere, but is inter alia: the consequence of the need to pursue a fiscal policy that is not too expansive.’.» But also in a tight budget it is possible to bet on something. The government boasts that they have now received 17 billion kroner in tax bills since they took over. One hundred percent of that sum had done wonders on the cultural budget, there are so little funds that we spend on culture in Norway. The truth is that culture was not among the areas where it was worth investing in for this government. In reality, this implies a reduced level of activity in most cultural institutions, in order to use the own words of the Council of State. Reactions have been harsh: theatre cut and orchestral cut, activity plans cut, libraries that lose broadband support – and not least the reactions to the full stop in cultural construction. Hålogaland Theatre is probably the most ghastly example. No one had any hope that the agreement with the Progress Party would give a big boost to the cultural budget. That did not happen. There was room for additions in some areas, but there was also a new deal in important areas: cut in the Film Fund of 5 million. kr, cut in the Culture Fund of 3 million. kr, cut in Rikstheater of 3 million. kr and cut in the nationwide music organisations of 3 million. kr. Now the majority have got cold feet in the last area and will try to remedy the damage by a decision here later today. What film has made the government parties and the Progress Party is a question you can ask. First, you cut the Film Fund by five million. kr in the revised budget in spring, you cut 5 million. kr in the financial committee, and then a further 5 million was cut. kr in the agreement of the Culture Committee. That means that half of the strong increase that Ellen Horn and the Stoltenberg government made room for in their budget, is now removed. The result of the budget adopted today is that, until 2005, Ellen Horn and the Stoltenberg Government's escalating plan have been implemented. It would not have happened if the Workers' Party's alternative budget had been adopted. We have a different device. In a budget that is actually tighter than the government parties and the Progress Party add up to, and which also contains $7 billion in tax bills, we have room for a real commitment to culture, a raise of nearly $100 million. kr. The working party wants to bet on Norwegian festivals. We're proposing five million. This means that many, many fires and activists, professional artists and cultural workers across the country can get a well-deserved boost. Festival support has remained silent for a long time. We also need a better balance between different festivals. The Labour Party wants to bet in Norwegian. We strengthen the purchasing system for literature by 5 million. kr. This means that four out of the six ‘Action Expanding the Purchasing Scheme’ points can be implemented. We can get more fictional books, we can strengthen the scientific system for children, we can set up a project pot for valuable scientific literature, and we can strengthen support for publications in neuroscience. The working party wants to give the free groups a boost. We're proposing to raise the Cultural Fund pot to free performing arts by $3 million. NOK, and we also propose to increase the Fund for Sound and Video by 3 million. kr. The Workers' Party wants to invest in national cultural buildings. We make sure, of course, to fulfill the promise we have made to Tromsø and North Norway by giving a start-up grant to the Hålogaland Theatre. The working party wants to give Norwegian film a boost. We're proposing $10 million. kr more for the short film bet. We want to give all the good short film producers and directors and actors, all those who make films in Norway, an opportunity to try out in a larger format, without having to go directly into the long film singer. We also want to strengthen the regional film funds West Norwegian Film Centres by 1 million. kr, Nordnorsk Filmszentrum with 1 million and cinematic characters in Bergen and Trondheim with 0.5 million. kr more. The working party wants to give Norwegian music a boost. We strengthen the purchasing system for music by 3 million. kr, we strengthen Music Export Norway, to launch Norwegian mu-sik abroad, by 1 million. kr, and we strengthen a number of other actions like the Norwegian show archives, folk music, dance teams, Momentum, Avant Garden, the Bjørnson Festival, the Sverresborg Museum to provide a deaf museum, the Open Channel, and a number of other actions. It would have been a lift. It would have given Norwegian artists and cultural workers a handshake. Unfortunately, there won't be anything of it. The only point of light remaining in the 2003 budget is that the majority of the population have voted against the votes of the government parties, namely changes in the distribution of funds, which provide a boost for the cultural school system, for free funds and for cultural buildings. Maybe that's the thing we get the most feedback on when we're traveling – the joy over the cultural school bag. But the assumption from the bulk of the population when the distribution of funds was changed was that the ordinary budget appropriations for the same purposes should not be weakened. It's broken. The appropriations for the cultural school bag are weakened. But the worst is on the Minister of Culture's own budget – cut in 34.2 million cultural buildings. kr and cut into free funds of 22,2 million. kr. One would think that when the majority of people got the Minister of Culture a lot of money to bet on directly from the tippers, the minimum was that at least in the fight with the Ministry of Finance was able to hold the few crowns you already had. In the debate last year, the Council of State, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, criticised the majority to cut the subsidy for local cultural buildings by 5.4 million. kr. This year, she's cutting 34.2 million. kr. But this is how it goes when cheap caravans and spirits are more important than culture. I'm discussing our proposals and the proposals we have with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e239	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e244	It must be delicious to be in opposition and have so much money to distribute. Of course, it's hard for the government parties to compete on that arena in relation to who should be able to give the most. It's one thing that's interesting when you see such a sandwich list, and that's how the priorities are done. There's one field that surprises me a little bit that the Workers' Party doesn't have a little more money to spend, once you have so much to travel with, and it's about the library and archive area. The archives are in a wretched constitution around our country. We need a lot of effort to get these things in place properly. The treatment of the ABM reform fully showed that this was an important area of concern for the preservation of what, after all, is our national memory. This year, this work has been started by the Government through a solid investment in the museum area. I can guarantee that if we had any more money to go with, we would also have followed up on the archive and library area. I'm assuming that this is something that we're going to put great emphasis on in the time that's coming. My question to the representative Giske is whether it is that archives and libraries are so low in priority in the cultural policy of the Workers' Party that we may not be able to wait for any support in this area in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e257	First, it's not like the Workers' Party has more money for culture when we're in opposition than when we're in position. I just showed Ellen Horn, who posted a state budget last year where the appropriations for culture increased by 330.5 million. kr. We raised the film bet by 59 million. kr. We just raised the museums, libraries and archives by 75 million. kr, and we also invested in the media sector with nearly 88 million. kr. It was a huge lift we performed in position. I have to say that I would like Ellen Horn to continue to be Minister of Culture, so that we could still have that promised in position and carried out the ambitions of the ABM message about additions, but also in other sectors. If this is the case that the Right is very concerned with the library and archive sectors, I would recommend that they vote in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have about a digital national knowledge base, where we can now take the entire library and archive sector into a new age, so that it becomes available, free of charge, for everyone across the country. In both schools and universities and in private, you can enter and directly access the knowledge base that Norway has. I am concerned about the cultural effort, not just the cultural effort that we are adopting here in the cultural budget, but not least about what the Right and Government parties, together with the Progress Party, have done in terms of the local economy. Too much of the cultural effort in Norway is funded and supported by Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities. Now we hear about cuttings all over the country. After all, the tasks imposed by law must go ahead, and thus the cultural field must be hit even harder. The cultural schools, where thousands of children are in line, local theatre groups, local music groups, get cut-offs in support from their municipalities, and this results in the cultural sector being hit twice as badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e266	The representative Gisk is very concerned about future efforts in the cultural sector. He wants increases in some areas. The representative shall express, inter alia: that he will give more money to artists, institutions, festivals, folk culture, free groups, etc., and he refers to the Workers' Party's escalation plans in this area – plans I think are airlocks. It's actually an opportunity for us to go the opposite of what the representative wants. There is an economic bomb in the cultural budget that will in future consume billions of investment crowns and hundreds of millions of operating costs. This bomb has the representative Geske himself been involved in positioning, and he himself has been involved in igniting the fuse. The bomb is called a new opera. In the coming years, it will cost us over DKK 3 billion just for the construction – probably more. In addition, there are road solutions. What they will cost, nobody knows yet, but the estimates vary from 2.8 to 10 billion kroner. One thing is investment, another is operating costs. The opera is being subsidized today by 150 million. kr. The construction of new operas will lead to significant increases in these costs. In the past, the increase has been estimated at 45–50 million. kr. But there is a great deal of uncertainty in this estimate. The progressing party will predict that with regard to the operation, we will have large exceedances. This money has to be taken from somewhere, and it is obvious that this will have to lead to cuts on other parts of the cultural budget. So the question is not what should be strengthened, but what the representative in the future will cut to cover the sky-high cost of opera.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e279	It's said that the Opera to be built in Oslo is a national monument, that it's the construction we're now going to put as a stamp in our age, as a reminder of those who come after us, and of course it's a utility building for Norwegian culture. But the truth is that it's actually not the Opera that's the largest national building – at least not the most expensive. Among other things, we need to: build five or six new frigates for the defense. Each frigate costs as much as the opera building. One might then have demanded that a minimum should have been that a theatre hall was built in each of them, but at least it is so fundamentally different dimensions of money use in areas other than culture that it is saying that if we are going to build a cultural building, then we are going to cut down on Norwegian music, then we are going to cut down on Norwegian theaters, then we are going to cut down on the children's and youth organisations, is completely meaningless. We're talking about maybe 100 million. which could really have been the difference between a budget with cuts and a budget with at least a certain amount of effort. Together with the government parties, the party of progress is to ensure that it gets through DKK 30 billion in tax bills – per year. It's going to be $30 billion in tax bills every year. Three days of tax relief provides an amount that could give rise to a rise in the cultural budget. Then we could have postponed the taxes until 4 January instead of 1 January. Then we had more than enough to implement the Workers' Party's cultural budget. It's kind of the choices we're facing, and I just have to say that the Progress Party is on the wrong side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e286	The representative Trond Giske started his speech by saying that Norway needs a cultural policy, and that man needs not only something to live off, but also something to live for. And the Christian People's Party has no problem joining that message. I think in a commercialized reality like the one we live today, this is more important than ever. In truth, it is also true that if we look at Norwegian cultural policy and the cultural policy of the various parties together, with some exceptions, it is largely the money that separates the various proposals, as the representative Thommess correctly pointed out. And when the representative Giske makes a very large number of the huge increase that former Minister of Culture Horn was able to create a year ago, it was a very good cultural budget, I think we can agree on that, but only a year later the Workers' Party put forward a cultural budget that was not very good at all, and where the central parties in a compromise with the Workers' Party contributed to raising that budget by 75 million. kr. I think it's right that we see it all in perspective over a little longer, because the economy of society is also swinging. Finally, a slightly smaller matter, which is nevertheless important: it goes on with this with a library, which also Thommess was involved. The working party contributed greatly to the removal of the earmarking of support for library buildings and mobile library services a few years ago. This led, among other things, to: The number of busses in this country crashed. The Workers' Party, together with SV and the Center Party, now joins in a comment and says that ‘the branch service and the bookbus service need to be developed in line with societal developments’. It is not very good in this area. What does this mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e295	I think we're going to see in our eyes that the cut in support of the mailboxes, an eartaged system, accidentally struck out, that it led to a deterioration, and that then we have to fix it. I think, quite frankly, that we have to look into the fact that some earmarked schemes – some of the legislative obligations in the municipalities in relation to perhaps the library sector in particular, since there is a current discussion – actually have to be debated, because otherwise the cultural sector loses to all other heavy sectors, which are much more legally imposed or earmarked. In the case of the ABM message, which the representative Lånke did a great job with as case rapporteur when it was dropped through in Stortinget, and on which the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party had a good cooperation, the result was that Ellen Horn presented a solid escalation in this area last year. The plan was that there would be an escalating of 40 million. kr every one year. In its draft budget, the parties to the government have come no more than 37 million. NOK, and then you have even taken into that escalating 10 million. kr from the money to the cultural school bag, and that was probably never meant to be. I think it is absolutely right, as the representative Lånke says, that in cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, we have achieved a huge increase in the cultural budget, not just in the cultural budget for 2001, but every year from 1986 until today the Labour Party has always, when we are in government, been given a budget with the Christian People's Party, and we have achieved a good development in the cultural field in Norway. It tells me that the Christian People's Party might have been able to see through to more of its cultural policy, got a different arrangement on politics, perhaps not the huge growth in private materialism that it is now being added to, but perhaps a greater boost in areas that I am absolutely convinced that Ola T. Lånke had been more satisfied with having been given a boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e306	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e310	The cultural budget must also be seen in the context of the need for a tight state budget. The good economy of households gives people space for cultural experiences and activity, and a good industrial policy is important for the increasingly large sections of cultural life that are also industrial. Publishers, film producers, media companies and independent professional artists depend on good framework conditions as do other parts of business. A good economic policy is therefore also a good cultural policy. This is also true in the perspective that the Workers' Party likes to promote, namely tax policy. In view of the tight frameworks we have, the government has done a good job with the budget through hard priorities. Specially exposed areas are maintained, while important initiatives continue to signal the road. Of the bet areas, it is particularly gratifying to note that the Government is following up on the museum reform. The consolidation process of the country's museums is now in a vulnerable phase, and the government's efforts in this field are necessary to ensure implementation as foreseen. Extra appropriations for the district museums are of great importance here. Many of these smaller museums are based on significant voluntary efforts and local involvement. They now have to adapt to new organisational frameworks, integrate professional strengthening and network their activities with other institutions. This is a demanding process, and the economic hand bill proposed by the Government is a wise move that gives breathing space and makes the positive opportunities offered by the reform visible. The main objective of the museum reform is to strengthen the museums as intermediaries in cultural history. Making a bet in relation to schoolchildren's use of the museums is therefore logical and correct. The government is taking control of this and is showing a 10-million-dollar allocation. How to strengthen an area through the cultural school system through a clear national approach. But the preservation of our collective memory is not just about museums. The archive and library areas are also central. It must be a target for next year's budget that we can then also follow up this field further. This year’s increased funding for the National Library is an important signal here. The appropriations follow up the National Library's building programme and continue the work on the technical and physical installations to enable the institution to fulfil its role as the national focal point in this area. By making our cultural heritage and national memory available to everyone, we strengthen the foundation on which we will stand when we turn towards the future. As important as holding the platform in claim, it is also important to pursue a cultural policy that points forward. In tomorrow's society, our ability to transform, internationalise and further develop our welfare society will be closely linked to a living, quality-aware cultural life. A small nation like ours is facing special challenges that require a safe cultural policy course and proper strategic action in the years to come. Our creativity is best triggered when we work in contexts where we really feel at home. If we use the language as an example, I think everyone will agree that we express ourselves best and feel most at home in the native language. But this also applies in other contexts. Our framework for expansion also consists of all the other small, almost undetectable building blocks that together form our cultural community. Here we find the sense of humor, the subtitles of advertising, our associations between the lines in literature, our use of symbols, the use of color, etc. – all the little unwritten rules that we may not even be aware of, but that most of us intuitively comply with. All of this, as we call culture, is increasingly being challenged and brought to change the outside impression. This is a positive challenge if we are able to meet it with our own strength and high integrity. We have to take the impressions, shape them, and make them ours. Culture is not static. Culture does not live if it is not renewed by being challenged. In short: culture is created when cultures meet. If we do not have the power to meet tomorrow with critical eyes and the ability to assess quality, as a cultural nation, we will easily be reduced to consumers in a cheap tab of the market, where clichés and banalities prevail. This will, in the Right's view, not only be negative for our self-image, our curiosity and our experience in life, but also directly reflect on the quality of our own creativity and thereby also give us a poorer starting point in economic sense. These perspectives are increasingly gaining ground in many of the areas of cultural policy. The most important thing is media policy. As suppliers of virtually all the information and entertainment we surround ourselves with, these companies characterize tomorrow's cultural everyday life. The adoption of Norwegian culture and thus the framework conditions for the creative power of the North will be closely linked to this development. Media policy cannot therefore rely solely on the condition of freedom of expression. We must also have cultural policy objectives in mind when, through a targeted policy, we contribute to building a sustainable, robust media industry, with high production capacity and high quality. For future cultural and media policies, it is important to strengthen our international relations. The government shows this, among other things. through support to the Office for Contemporary Art Norway and through the steps taken to strengthen the dissemination of Norwegian literature abroad, i.e. the bundling of MONIN and NORLA with the accompanying additional appropriations. Many of the cultural expressions of the future will spring out of the film as a nude start. The government is showing its way here this year when it establishes two new grant schemes, for fiction series and for the development of computer games, respectively. In the budgetary negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party, it was necessary to cut something at the Norwegian Film Fund. It is our hope that by later crossroads we will be able to help get back up to a level that allows for a feature film production of up to 20 films per year. By supporting the Film 3 project, we have given a clear signal from the majority that it is also important to try out new models of film funding. Experience from other countries shows that regionally based production environments have exciting opportunities that should also be tested in Norwegian context. One of the most important cultural and media policy actors in the future is, of course, the NRC. It is very positive that the Government has proposed charging schemes that strengthen the institution financially and that contribute to improving the procurement policy of the NRC. This will help to strengthen the NRK’s position as a cultural policy locomotive. However, it is important not to look blindly at the economic aspects of the major modernisation project in which the NRC is involved. As a media enterprise, the NRK is required to meet a turbulent market with very high requirements for conversion capacity. It is about major technological challenges, the development of new concepts and significant market adaptation. Should the NRK continue to be the cultural policy tool we want, the institution must be guaranteed a very effective governance as a means of rapid conversion. Otherwise, we're going to get a heavy NRK that is constantly being passed by by private, mostly foreign, actors. This year, the government parties have reached an agreement with the Progress Party. The party to the progress shall be in favour of the acceptance shown by the party through these budgetary negotiations. It is a shame that making a compromise with the Progress Party on a cultural budget means a breakdown of the budget. Well the framework was laid, but the Progress Party has a clear cultural policy that is the starting point for the party to have made it considerably more difficult for us to reach a whole. The result is that the Government's draft budget is largely met, which we think is very satisfactory. Finally, I would like to comment on the representative Giske's answer to my question about the national archives. He here referred to the establishment of the national knowledge base. The problem is that Norwegian archives are not in a condition that makes it possible to incorporate them into a digital base. Norwegian archives are unfortunately stored around the ceiling and in the cellars. They exist in all kinds of organisational storage contexts, and a great job must be done to make this available to Norwegian consumers. This is a job we have to tackle, and, as I said, it is one of the important challenges for future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e358	We must be able to say that the right-wing government has a great responsibility for the very bad cultural budget that has been presented. They have prioritised and then taken from culture in relation to tax laws. Earlier this year, the representative Thommess had an article at a conference on Toten, where he spoke warmly about the importance of purchasing systems for Norwegian Phonogram, and he thought that the framework is too small for us to get to good Norwegian music. I can't see that the representative from the Right has got anything into the budget about it. Another thing that worries me is the reduction that it looks like they're really fixing up now – a reduction in the funding of the music organisations. These organisations are grounded in Norwegian music, but there may not be this kind of bet Right is the most busy. So what happens to the recruitment of music? The right has stated that this poor cultural budget must be an exceptional year. Does that mean that the Right will make a big effort for 2004? And that means that with the proposal that is now on the table, among other things. The music organisations now have better times to meet, so that in the future organisations can work for a broad and good recruitment to music life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e367	The representative Pedersen takes up the thread from what we so often meet with, that investing in tax relief and making the necessary tax relief is a big problem for cultural life. It's completely wrong, of course. Cultural life depends on our having a good economic policy, and that we also have a strong and sustainable private sector. A dynamic tax policy, a tax policy that actually gives more money back both to those who are businessmen and to those who are consumers – you and I – is a good policy also for culture, because it gives greater consumption. But of course it is a problem, with the eyes of the Workers' Party, that the priorities of private people do not necessarily follow government wishes and a party program. We believe in a greater freedom in this picture. We believe that the mechanisms in a market are also important for the development of a cultural life. Here the volunteer organisations are a very important area. It is not that the voluntary organisations stand and fall with the public support they receive, even though it is very important – let me stress it! But voluntary organisations are driven forward by voluntary efforts and by significant efforts to do jobs in organisations, but also by raising money. This is an important foundation and an important driving force in voluntary work. We must do that at all costs. The right considers that the tax profile we have will strengthen the starting point for voluntary work. What we want is to have tax incentives, for example. this is now proposed through the possibility of deducting up to NOK 6000 from the tax on the proceeds of voluntary activities. It's the grip that makes us want to strengthen cultural life from within and from below, and that's the best way we can support Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e378	The representative, Olemic Thommess, is concerned with a forward-looking cultural policy. It is difficult to see in this budget. The Committee does not, I believe, take overall responsibility for allocating funds to different actions in municipalities and counties. I'll use Eastfold as an example. Eastfold is a state that has lost its cultural offerings, and the funds have been withdrawn from the state. The contemporary art festival Momentum and Animated Days in Fredrikstad are forward-looking and unique in their kind in Norway. These are important areas of activity in a state that tops many negative statistics and that receives little cultural funding from the state budget. How can the Right be more concerned with sending greetings home than taking overall responsibility for a forward-looking and holistic cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e385	The picture that the representative May Hansen describes is simply wrong. We have just taken responsibility by trying to see the whole thing. The issue of low priority areas geographically has been a central issue when we have worked on the budget in the Committee. We have strengthened 2-3 institutions in Akershus, an area that is perhaps one of the worst priority areas in Norway, if you look at it statistically and calculate how many cultural crowns and how many institutions are actually in that area. We see a significant urbanism, a population move, in the Gardermoen area, i.e. in the northern parts of Akershus. This is an area that will now also require a great deal of cultural infrastructure. We're trying to do something about that, with the modest means that you can move on through a negotiation like this. A future-oriented cultural policy – yes, it's about seeing a whole that's targeting the producer. I think the most important thing we can do in the future is to make sure that Norwegian cultural life has strong production environments that, through qualitative, professional and good work, can create the volume, the quantity, of cultural production that is necessary for them to have a solid Norwegian position. Here again, the media companies are at the centre, and I hope that SV can also contribute constructively to a work that will create better framework conditions for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e392	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e395	During the 17 years I have represented the Progress Party in the municipality, in the county and in the big crowd, I have had a lot of fun about the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party. The point of view and criticism that often comes is that when the Progress Party is not a member of large public funds on the cultural budget, the party is a cultural enemy. This is in itself something I've dressed in my head above, because I've been thinking about culture as something that doesn't depend on public funds. If you look at the lexicon definition of culture, I feel that it supports my view. Looking at culture in, for example, Caplex, it says that culture is processing, development, especially in relation to the material and spiritual development of the individual and of society – not a word that it must be done over large public budgets. The conclusion must be clear: the fact that one is not a member of huge public funds for culture is not the same as being an enemy of culture. I'm actually very happy with culture. I go with great pleasure at concerts, watch lots of movies, have been active in sports for many years, who both play and practice, go to museums, etc. etc. We in the Progress Party believe that, as a general rule, a large proportion of it should be per. Today, cultural appropriations from public budgets are returned to the individual, so that the cultural activities you want to use can be determined for yourself. We're for self-determined culture. Of course, we need to keep some large, important national institutions to take care of our common heritage as a nation. But as extensive appropriations and cultural bureaucracy as they have become are unnecessary. We use enormous resources to allocate the funds allocated over public cultural budgets – money that, if people could have kept them themselves, could have gone to practical cultural actions and experiences for the individual. So this is the fundamental view of the Advance Party in cultural policy. As you can understand, there is a very long way between the fundamental views of the Progress Party in cultural policy and those of the other parties in this Chamber. But the Progress Party is a party that has the ability and the will to take responsibility, and to compromise. We have shown this both in advance of the financial debate and in advance of this budget debate. We have reached budgetary agreements with the Government that are to live with, and have therefore decided that we can vote with the Government within the three frameworks we are to deal with today. This is a form of subsidiary aid, in some fields with little joy, in other fields with greater joy. It has been central to the Progress Party to get an overview of some clear and selected issues. We have made that clear. As I said, we prioritise some major and important national institutions to take care of our common heritage as a nation. The sailing ships «Southern», «Christian Radich» and «Statsraad Lehmkuhl» are some of them. Another part of our common heritage is architecture. We have prioritised the Art Nouveau Centre in Ålesund, which is to preserve this part of our national heritage. The Progress Party is pragmatic in cultural policy. If money is to be spent on culture, we believe that it must be used where it benefits as much as possible. For the Advancement Party, it is important for people's culture. Therefore, it is important for us to strengthen the voluntary organisations. We have this, among other things. made in connection with the changed key and in our primary draft budget, which is referred to in the position we are now dealing with. Sport is also important for the Progress Party. It is with great joy that we see that appropriations for Bislett Stadium have now been started. The representative Jan Koløy will elaborate on some of the positions of the Advance Party within the Ministry of Culture. I would like to end my speech by addressing the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the position under the Framework Areas 1, 2 and 3 and at the same time signaling that the Progress Party will support the proposals. 29 and 30, from SV, but not to proposals Nos. 31-33.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e426	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e431	The Progress Party is very concerned that the parties that conclude agreements with the Advance Party should keep them. But as far as the cultural budget is concerned, the Progress Party has actually broken an agreement. I recall the agreement on the typing agents that we entered into together, which included: the quotations are not from the contract but from the Innst.O. No 44 for 2001-2002 ‘The majority assumes that the allocation mechanism shall not be at the expense of corresponding appropriations in the State budget, but lead to a real increase for those purposes, at least equivalent to the increase in the input from the funds.’ And it says:* ‘This mechanism shall not be at the expense of corresponding budgetary appropriations, but shall result in a real increase for those purposes at least equivalent to the increase in the supply from the budget of the State.’;» It was in a deal. But then the Progress Party has entered into a budgetary settlement with the government parties, and a note in the vote says: ‘The majority indicates that this has not been followed up’ — we are talking about grants for local and regional cultural buildings —’ by the Ministry of Culture. The record for cultural construction is cut by 34.2 million. crowns when adjusting for the allocation of broadband bets for libraries. The majority consider it critical that the department does not follow up the leaders of the Stortinget.’ Does the representative Knudsen not consider it critical to break an agreement that has been concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e454	I must bend my head for some of the criticism from the representative of the Workers' Party. I do not feel that we have broken any agreement. We have tried, to the best of our ability, as will be demonstrated by our primary proposal, to enter into negotiations in order to comply with the intentions of the key issue. We have not made that clear, and we have not come to the figures that we should have come to, even though we have got something back and changed some of the damage that the Government's budget proposal would have done. However, I believe that if we had had a cooperation between the Labour Party, SV and the Progress Party on the Total Budget, the consequences would be far more negative both for Culture-Norway and for Norway in general for economic policy. This pressure, however, just underscores what I mentioned in my reply with the representative Giske, namely that there is a pressure on the cultural budget that is significant. The budget pressure will be even greater when the opera appropriations come, and there are appropriations where the Labour Party has been very central, and it is clear that there are 30 million missing. Now kr, it'll lack 100 more in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e463	As most people here have been involved, art and culture are important to us. It is essential for our personal development and for our quality of life. Cultural expansion gives us insight, it creates security in relation to ourselves and to others, and it breaks down prejudices and counters xenophobia. In other words, bets on art and culture are more important than ever. Therefore, everyone must be given the opportunity to experience good art and culture. In its submissions and in its comments, the party says ‘that what is a good culture for one is not at all a good culture for another’. For most of us, such an attitude would be seen as an expression of respect for diversity, for tolerance, and that we have different needs in the arts and culture. But this is not the case with the Progress Party. In their alternative budget, they cut by 600 million. kr in the cultural sector. They cut at all institutional culture, such as museums, theater, opera, film production, etc. At all, it's a rather penitent reading. They believe that culture should not be the responsibility of the public. But let me stress that the art and cultural life depends on public efforts to preserve our cultural heritage, and to ensure diversity and quality offers. The Progress Party further states that ‘politicist cultural goods destroy the essence of culture and promote unity’. I would like to challenge the representative Knudsen to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e472	I think perhaps that the representative, Mr Sjeli, the chairman of the Committee, should leave to the Progress Party to interpret the intentions behind the policy of the Progress Party. A central part of my speech was also about what the Progress Party sees as the central, overall objectives of cultural policy, namely that we believe that, as a general rule, a large proportion of the cultural appropriations per person should be allocated. Today, public budgets are being reviewed, so that they can decide for themselves which cultural measures they want to use. We are, as I said, followers of a self-determined culture. We have faith in the individual. I must take note that the Right, which I thought had great faith in the choices of the individual and the individual, does not have this confidence. We also believe that in today's cultural system, there is a lot of the money that could have been spent on cultural actions for the individual, which goes away in distribution and bureaucracy. We believe that if people could have kept this money for themselves, they could have been used for practical cultural actions and experiences for the individual. The centre of the Progress Party is the free choice of individuals, and I have to record that it is no longer central in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e481	Olemic Thommessen gave honor to the Advancement Party. I believe that it is not parliamentary language to say that a person wants to give a bank to the representative of the Progress Party, but I would like that to be the case. The Progress Party took a commendable initiative in its Document No. 8 suggestions to change the key. We were invited to join in, and we participated in and carried it out. Then we have seen later that the Progress Party has been with and saved the budget along with the Government. This is perhaps an example of the so-called pragmatic view of culture and agreements we have here. On the website of the Progress Party last week there were several important cultural victories for the Progress Party. They refer to some items for which they have been passed, including: Three million. kr in increase to Freefonds. But Knudsen knows well that the agreement we had would amount to $12.2 million. kr to Frifond. The Knudsen knows it's gone 34 million. kr to local and regional cultural buildings, which the Ministry says would have provided opportunities for the start-up of eight regional and 124 local cultural buildings. None of those houses are back in place. As I see it, we must then deal with the Progress Party and agreements as to fresh goods. It is clear that the agreement we had concluded on the budget was marked ‘best before 1 December’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e492	This may well be the first time I've been threatened with a bank from the Stortings pulpit. We're going to be more about it, Magnar, I'm a little bit bigger than you. This was also the basis for the reply from the Workers' Party, and I felt that I answered it in that context. This is a discussion that I believe belonged in the financial debate that we had. In this context, I would like to refer to our primary proposal, which was put forward there, where we relate to 100 pst. to this Agreement. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and in the negotiations we have had with the Government, we have tried to comply with the agreement to the best of our ability. We have been corrected a little by the damage done by the Government, but unfortunately we have not made everything clear. So some criticism we have to take. But we have tried as best we could, and as I said, we had put this into our primary proposal, which, of course, both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party were free to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e504	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e507	I might as well use the chance to bring what I didn't get in the line to Knudsen. In fact, the Progress Party has spent a lot of millions in this context. You boast that you have done a lot. Why, then, do you use the millions to send Christmas cards home all over Norway, instead of keeping the agreement you have actually signed with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party in the past? You have a choice, and you have done something else. In a policy of a more fair and solidarity society, a society rich in cohesion and good experiences for all, art and culture are an important element. The framework conditions of art and culture are essential for the quality of life of individuals and society as a whole. Prioritisation will therefore be a keyword. The culture does not lack praiseworthy mention and fine words. If a reader reads the main priorities and objectives of the batches in the budget setting, there is much in common with all the lots. Yes, even the Progress Party seems to take some false steps towards creating something that looks like a cultural policy programme. However, fine programme formulations are of little help if we do not mean serious – if the idea is not followed up in practice – as regards the priority of culture. And that's where it fails. In one of the world’s richest countries, we have a government that says very nicely about the importance of culture, but that seems that tax relief is more important — or that greater funding for defence, increased resources for oil extraction, more cash support or, for that matter, private schools are more important. The result of such priorities is what we can read about in the Government's proposals for the year's cultural budget: ‘The budget does not reflect the level of ambition of the government in the cultural and church sphere.’ And on the other hand, ‘As a consequence, the moderate nominal increase in the budget framework in practice implies a lower level of activity in most cultural institutions.’ Here the Government shows its priorities. The culture is the loser, it's just the fine words that remain. It doesn't give much activity and intrusive innovation. In SV we find little reason to change substantially what is in the budget. With the exception of the Progress Party, as Mr T. Lånke said earlier today, there is a large consensus on the main lines of the priorities of Norwegian cultural policy. In Norway, the cultural budget accounts for approx. 1/2 pst. by the State budget. SV has a programmed objective that the cultural budget should be 1 pst. For the next year, our proposal for a cultural budget represents an increase of 400 million. kr. It would give Norway a real cultural promise, and not, as the Government suggests, lower levels of activity at most cultural institutions. Together with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, we have arranged for the change of the so-called key. We politicians are so lucky to travel a lot and meet many people. As a member of the Culture Committee, we meet many who are culturally interested around, and it has been a pleasure to record all the optimism and great expectations that this decision has created among people. The most important intervention is the realization of the cultural school bag for all children in Norway. However, it is also important to note the considerable investment in local and regional cultural buildings that this will entail, and the proper stepping up of the Free Fund scheme. But again, with reference to the tight budgetary situation, the Government has prioritised and ignored the clear decisions of the majority of the population and has not used the possibilities that this new, fresh money could provide for a new cultural promise. Even 400 million. kr extra is a lot on a small budget like the cultural budget, it doesn't mean that we can afford everything, although it's the slightly envious comment we get from culturally interested colleagues in other parties. No, SV must also be a priority. Now it is not possible in this context to frame up all the good things it is possible to do with, so I refer to SV's primary budget. It should be exciting reading for more than SV's own. What we want to prioritize with the 400 million. We have, among other things, cultural memory protection, the museum sector, the Riksantikvaren and the Cultural Memory Fund. Children and young people are central to SV. We want to upgrade the cultural schools and the conditions for voluntary music and amateur theatre activities. We have been working for several years, which we hope will soon bring together more, to establish a test scheme with cultural cards for young people in some counties, as well as the environmental card we have in terms of public transport. We want to improve the living conditions of the artists. We have recently been shown that it is possible to be a conductor and a writer and at the same time to be tuned to the Nordic Council Literature Prize. There's nothing wrong with that. But we know that there are many artists in Norway who don't have time and space and opportunities to evolve as artists because they don't have a financial framework that allows them to work on what they want to primarily do. Their limited ability to create will, in the next round, mean for all of us the limitation of our ability to experience just good art and culture. SV wants to increase the grant scheme, increase the amount of the contract for artists. We want to have more decoration of public space and strengthen free groups. I've mentioned cultural meeting places before. I said earlier that if the majority of the population had been followed up, next year there would have been opportunities to start 8-9 regional and 124 local meeting places for culture. Hålogaland Theatre, we've set aside 20 million. kr to – the spade could be set in the ground. The same applies to the plans of the Ája Sami Centre. There we've been able to figure out four million. kr. We also want to continue to strengthen the cultural housing network. The music is central to cultural life. We want to strengthen the purchasing system for Norwegian phonograms by 15 million. kr. It's a 7 million-dollar scheme. kr, and that means that just approx. 15 pst. Norwegian music is part of the scheme. We want to get this as soon as possible in approx. 50 pst., and that it could be a two to three years before an evaluation is made to see if we're going to go all the way up to the level of literature. The festivals are important. We've found 13 million. kr. The national concerts need to be upgraded to take care of the waiting lists. Here we've found 10 million. kr. There are great plans for a library and a blueshouse on the Notodden, which has the great name of Europe's Bluessenter. It's a good plan, and most of it's done. Ten million. kr would mean that this could have been started. These are our ambitions and our desire for cultural growth. Together with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, we have worked together – with different starting points and different amounts – on many proposals in the budgetary process of the year. I would believe that the Christian People's Party too would be well prepared with the vast majority of the comments we have made in this year's budget. 400 million. kr – how much is there in budgetary terms? That's 4 pst. by the Government in tax relief this year. That's 65 million. kr less than the supplement granted by the Government to private schools in the budget of the year. As a reason for the meagre cultural budget, the Government says: ‘The fiscal framework for 2003 is very tight. In this tight budgetary situation, the Ministry has found it necessary to reduce the budget appropriations for the State budget of the Free Fund and local and regional cultural buildings in relation to the budget adopted for 2002.’» They're doing this to a majority in the Biggest! And is this budget really so tight? In my opinion, it is not. But the priorities are wrong. I am pleased that I am part of a party that does not choose such priorities, but chooses to prioritise culture, not only in programmes and talks, but also in its budgets – in front of tax havens, in front of private schools and, for that matter, before we send fighter planes to Afghanistan. The media image is threatened by market forces. Unfortunately, the fact that we are getting more and more actors and more media does not mean that media pluralism is increasing. There are many enough signs in the media landscape that commercial pressure leads to an equalization, a similarity in form and content that more resembles simplicity than diversity. A media researcher has said: When the audience is considered to be consumers – as customers – something significant happens with the form of enquiry, the appeal becomes different. A consumer is not an equivalent partner in a conversation, but only an object of influence. I'm behind this observation. There is an increasingly clear consumer position in the media, where audiences such as readers, viewers and listeners are not regarded as citizens of society but as consumers. It is precisely at a time when the market forces have been released that we need some shelters without the purchase press 24 hours a day. So to the NRK. Now I am not going to spend too much time on an already heated debate in the conflict between Minister of Culture Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and Head of Broadcasting John G. Bernander in connection with the management of the NRK and the reorganisation, or – I would say – the dismantling of several NRK district offices. But I would like to comment on something anyway. We in SV have always opposed what we see as a weakening of the NRK that is going on at a fast pace. Even though the NRK was organized as a share company, it is we, the Stortinget, as owners who are to give the political signals and the management tools. The size must become a clearer and more concrete premiscuous supplier of the general guidelines to be followed by the NRC. The NRK must not move away from the basic principle of a non-commercial public broadcaster to ensure that the Norwegian people have the widest possible radio and television offer to have a strong anchor in Norwegian reality and to build belonging and identity through, among other things. good district broadcasts. As I see it, the NRK has a huge competitive advantage just as an advertising-free broadcaster. At the same time, they can create programs without just thinking about achieving large ratings and ratings. It's quite unique and especially media-related, where the world is characterized by purchasing pressure, advertising and commercial interests. Our aim in SV is to strengthen living and participating democracy. Here the papers play a very central role in creating identity, the recognition of events, experiences and culture. National newspapers, regional and local newspapers are crucial in Norway for this communication. The five nationwide, meaningful newspapers The daily newspaper, the class struggle, our country, the nations and the day have in common that they do not have the same advertising basis as the big national newspapers, nor do they get any part of the local advertising basis. In addition, there are significant distribution costs through postage costs, which the large unemployment newspapers and many of the small localities do not have either. These newspapers are an important aspect of media pluralism in the daily press in Norway. SV proposes in its alternative budget to increase production aid by 20 million. kr. SV will also strengthen freedom of expression and diversity within a culture of opinion by increasing support by 5 million. kr to various regular publications, they go to migrant publications, grants for information activities in political parties and grants to individual publications. SV opposes the proposal of the majority to amend the criteria for the award of grants to various publications. We believe that these publications are an important part of the diversity of the media, and we therefore want the Government to come to the Stortinget on its own, so that we can discuss how we can ensure the operation and publication of publications for the future. Finally, I would like to say that it is gratifying if today we can have a majority in Stortingen for the NRK to produce television programmes, which will help about 600 000 people with hearing impairments to be included in the social debate in a way that is a matter of course for all of us who are listening. I am promoting the proposals SV have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e605	Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e610	SV accuses the other parties that their cultural policy is largely about fine words and is an unrealistic policy. Yes, I would say that is to throw stones when you are sitting in a glass house. Save me well! Let me give you one example: SV wants e.g. That we're building a digital platform here in the country, either through broadband or on the ground. From the right, we're also concerned about this, but we realize that getting maybe 50 billion dollars, which would cost a unilateral state expansion, is unrealistic within the framework of the state budget. That is why we want to facilitate private operators and the market to be the driving force in such development. The main comments from the SV on the budget also describe such an extension based on a strong desire to do so. And there you've certainly put in both the one and the other assumption that potential builders will meet. Vertical integration shall be prohibited, there shall be a high capacity for open, i.e. unpaid, channels, and you have to e.g. start building up in the districts instead of building up in the cities – just to mention something. In this context, who does SV really think that a digital platform should be developed in Norway? Is it possible, as I think SV agrees, that with the premise SV adds, it is impossible to bring private actors into this picture? Is the state going to expand? And does SV maybe have 50 billion dollars to do such an expansion, or is it such that SV likes us to go through the whole expansion and take development as it might not come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e621	Thommessen refers to SV sitting in glasshouses. He probably didn't quite hear after, because I didn't disagree with the priorities of the government in the cultural budget. I said on the contrary that we support what is there, but we want to go beyond that. What we're criticising is the priority of, for example, tax relief, defence and private schools at the expense of what we perceive could give more money to the cultural budget. And I actually think that if we got that money, the right would probably also be involved in a lot of the priorities we're doing. I have good faith in that, although we may disagree on some of the issues of media policy, in terms of press support and development, not least, by the NRK. The Thommessen mentions the expansion of the digital network, we've been critical all along. We see, of course, that digitisation must come, and it should come as soon as possible. But we need enough time to pick the right solutions. In the light of the consultations held by the Committee, the Party of Advances and SV was very critical of the solution so far suggested, namely that NRK and TV2 through NTV are both content suppliers and distributors and that, in the next round, the price can be determined for others who may wish to enter the same network. It means a kind of monopoly of a state-owned AS and a commercial channel that we think is very unfortunate. We didn't say it would cost $50 billion. We haven't said that we're going to start broadband immediately. We've said that maybe it's wise now to wait two to three years because of technological developments and see if there are no other solutions that are both better and more sensible than the NTV we've seen today. As far as I have learned, the doubt is also great both in the Right Party and in the Christian People's Party – and in the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e633	Sir Winston Churchill must have said that success is to go from cascade to pheasant and yet retain enthusiasm. Now I don't know if it's SV's recipe for cultural policy, but the fact that this party, SV, has, over all years, turned us all out in terms of proposals for grants for culture, makes us feel a little ashamed on the one hand. On the other hand, we also have to ask how SV can stand this by constantly granting all kinds of good cultural actions, which we would like to have helped to support, without moving one penny. What does this do with SV? This isn't real money. And I have to ask the representative Lund Bergo: what does this do to all actors and groups and those who work within these measures, to whom so much money has been proposed, when they never see them? Now, there may be something going on as we hear that the Socialist Left Party will enter into closer cooperation with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party and perhaps also sit in government. If we start from today's cultural budget, it means that the Socialist Left Party must reduce its cultural budget at least towards the level of the Workers' Party, which is 300 million. DKr below. It's a formidable cut compared to the cuts that have been made in the budget deal that we've been talking about here today. I would like to ask the representative, Lund Bergo, how will it be with enthusiasm when you have to cut so much into the future cultural budget and take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e644	The representative Lånke says he feels ashamed. He has good reason for that. Then he says that the SV is operating on, not real money. But that's real money. It's just that they're being used for other things. It's real money that's now going to add up to 465 million. kr for private schools. It's real money going to frigates, each costing $3.5 billion. It's real money that gives $10 billion in tax bills on this year's budget. There could be a lot of culture for that money. The situation in Norway today is that private consumption is increasing at the expense of public supply – 7:1 is the ratio in the budget of the year. Feeling ashamed is a good reason!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e651	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e654	The very first sentence of the budget proposal from the Ministry of Culture and the Church for the following year states: ‘Art and culture have their own value and are essential for the development of the individual’s personality and quality of life.’ The first sentence of a document is always important. I don't think it's random that this very wording is used as an introduction to the budget, because it says everything about why we're going to spend public resources on art and culture. ‘Art and culture have a self-esteem’. That means that the value of art and culture is not primarily determined by its utility, but actually by its being for its own sake. There are sufficient grounds for public funding for culture alone. If that wasn't the case, we could have ended up in a discussion about what artistic expressions and what cultural measures had the greatest benefit, such as the "Culture of the World" and the "Culture of the World". has been the main contributor to a social account and therefore had to be given priority over other things. It's not like that, and it should never be like that. But then, when it's fixed, this introduction actually says a lot about what art and culture also mean. It says that it ‘is essential for the development of the individual’s personality and quality of life’. So important is this area for which we are now dealing with a budget. I don't think anyone has the full picture of the prevention impact of culture locally, nationally and not least internationally. Time doesn't allow much to say about this. But I think we who got to experience the Nobel Concerto on Wednesday night, could sense at least some of what art unfolding can mean when it comes to building bridges. It was a great moment when the bridge builder Jimmy Carter embraced his good friend Willie Nelson, and when in his thank-you speech he underlined «the ability of music to bring people together. United, not split. Create peace, not hate’. This was quoted in the Evening Post on December 12th this year. I started by quoting the first sentence of the budget proposal. After such an introduction, we might have expected that the budget would also significantly increase the appropriations for cultural life. Although it was proposed to increase in some areas, we must agree that it is a sober budget. As the entire state budget is marked by a necessary tightness, this also applies to culture. Some say that tightness is good enough, but culture is so important that it should have been kept out. Yes, we are many who would like it to be seen that it was so that cultural life could be protected against any narrowing. It's not like that -- not now and it hasn't been like that before either. In the harsh economic reality, culture is in line with the other budgetary areas. Yes, very often culture is the area that first gets hurt. With a side look at the municipal sector, we see that culture is largely turned into a balancing post. Taking this into account, we can be happy that the cultural budget proposed by the Government is to live with – and actually so. Then we can assume that the Minister of Culture will also say something today that she is satisfied with having had the impact of everything essential in the budget submitted. The Christian People's Party welcomes the cooperation shown by the Progress Party in reaching an agreement on the distribution within the budgetary framework. Some changes that also involve cuts in some items were not to be avoided. But the changes made by the majority are in no way dramatic and reflect nothing more than what can be expected in a democratic decision-making process like this. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I can safely say that in the cuts we've been on, whether it's Norwegian Film Foundation or the Riksteater, there's no sign of a future depriorization of these areas, some of which have been concerned about. That the majority should be out to punish someone, just as it has been made by someone, falls on their own unfairness. We see the greatest value of both investing money in the production of good Norwegian film and the need to ensure that the whole country experiences professional stage art. The definition of the future cultural policy in these and other areas should be addressed when we receive the new cultural message. I would therefore like to make it clear that there are no links between the forthcoming communication and the cuts made in the budget. On the other hand, I would like to take the opportunity to say that some of the additions that the limited cuts provided, at least give one signal I would like to highlight. It has long been recognised that the free field of art has been underestimated and neglected in the context of cultural policy priorities. In the context of the budgetary agreement, this time the majority has chosen to accommodate a few measures in the field of free performing arts. Although the funds are allocated to, among others: Networks of Scene Art and Circa Theatre, too small a drop to count, I am convinced that they will give many more and at least offset the possible damage caused by the reduction in other items. We should only have had much more resources both for these and for many more measures. I have no doubt that it is sometimes right to re-prioritize resources and allow new actors and groups to escape. It will greatly enrich the entire field of art. So a couple more signals that are not related to the transfer of money in this budget. It is not just the free field of art that is neglected in cultural policy priorities. It also applies to others, and not least to folk music and folk dance, and to church music that sings. That's why I'm very happy that an entire committee agrees to stress that both of these areas need to be given greater attention in the coming time. According to the view of the Christian People's Party, very good art is practiced, partly of very high quality, in both of these areas, and time must be too long to evaluate their cultural policy status. Two areas are currently what we can call the main areas of action. One is about the archive, library and museum sectors, or the ABM sector, as we say. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has followed up the ABM message and increased the funding for the next year as well. Nevertheless, it must be said that we are still only in the starting pit in relation to the objectives the Stortinget has set for the investment in this field. So far, only one sector, the museums, has been granted increased funding. That is also where the economic effort will have the greatest extent, so it is natural. Nevertheless, although much remains in the museum field as well, and not least in terms of equivalence within the reform, the other two areas, archives and libraries, will now also be given a boost. Another main field of action in the years to come is the cultural school bag. When the scheme comes into place, it will be triggered in the order of 175 million. kr annually for this measure. It seems formidable, but given that this is going to benefit all the country's schoolchildren and young people, the figure is probably not larger than it should be. This means that it makes sense to ensure that as much of the funds as possible goes to what they are meant to be, namely art and cultural experience as ballast in the bag of every Norwegian school student. That is the background for the comments and the proposal that an entire committee has put forward. The investment in the cultural school bag is an investment in the future. Today, we find that a lot of people in this country never visit a gallery, a concert or a theater. Why? Because maybe they never got the opportunity to rehearse the sense of art and culture. Art and culture are not just galleries, theaters and concerts. It's not least architecture and design as well. Some should have said that architecture is frozen music. In that case, it is well said. A lot has happened in this field in the last few years that promise good for the future. I mention this because Norwegian Form last night celebrated its 10th anniversary, and therefore it is in its place to send off farms a congratulations – not because this institution has managed to become a whole ten years, but because of the very important work Norsk Form has done in these years to make the whole community aware of the importance of design, design and not least the design of the public space for the development of our entire culture. There are a lot of visible traces of Norwegian form already, and more we'll see in the future. There are visible signs that deliberate investment with relatively modest funds over the cultural budget may have major ring-fences Finally, some words about what we didn't get. One example is the Hålogaland Theatre. I know people in Tromsø are disappointed. The launch of such a large investment project could not be included in the budget this time. But we're all getting ours to make the disappointment in Tromsø not long. Momentum is another example. Momentum is a very successful attempt to develop a contemporary art exhibition window in Norway and the Nordic countries. This is such a positive measure that even if we did not find room to increase the budget allocation, it is to hope that we will succeed in obtaining the necessary funds, so that next year's festival can be held as planned. Finally, I would also like to say that I would like to spend more time on media policy, but I see that time is up. A wide range of media offers means a great deal of ‘for the development of the individual’s personality and quality of life’, as mentioned in the introduction to the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e699	Should the representative make any proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e702	I will, President! I will make a proposal from Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e707	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e712	Actually, I should have simply asked the Christian People's Party: how do you feel in the Christian People's Party with the Advance Party as the ruling power? I guess I didn't want an honest answer, so we just skip that. But it must be reassuring to join in strangling the community economy, when even the Christian People's Party knows what is being cut first in the municipalities, namely culture. The Christian People's Party is involved in cutting off the allocation to the theater, and the Christian People's Party is involved in not following up the Ola T. Borrowing its own work so intensively for in connection with the ABM message about an economic escalation to the libraries. Maybe there was a point in what the council said that the authors wanted to earn more, they had to write the books faster. Perhaps this is the escalation in the library sector. Culture and cultural work have preventive effects, alcohol has degrading effects. Is it the case that the Christian People's Party will, for the second time, bet on low taxes on alcohol and low taxes on caravans rather than a good and versatile cultural life, which we know is especially preventive for children and young people, as Ola T. Lännk himself mentioned in his article?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e719	The representative Torny Pedersen suggested a question that she would not ask me, but I would nevertheless allow me to answer it: How have we in the Christian People's Party, was the representative's question. I have to answer that we have it excellent, very good. And I have to say that the process of reaching agreement on the budget within the Committee has gone much better than last year. We had a deal last year, too, then with the Workers' Party, and if we're going to compare those two, I don't know who gets the best out. The Progress Party has been very good and tidy to deal with in this budgetary process. We quickly reached agreement on an agreement. We have had some after-shave, and the proposal that I just made is probably also proof of that. It can go a little fast in the swings sometimes. But overall, we are very well satisfied with the agreement and the agreement we have signed. The cuts that Torny Pedersen rammed up are most likely to live with. Cut the Rikstheater, yes, it's clear the pain, and it's not with any easy heart we're doing it, but we're essentially spending the money on theater. And when I see in the paper that it means, in the case of the Rikstheater, that despite the cut, they keep one million extra compared to last year's budget, and this isn't dramatic for the Rikstheater. As for the ABM message, I think we're in a very good development, a good process. The government has shown that it has the will to follow up, but it is, as I also underlined in my post, far until we have reached the goal set by the Stortinget for ABM. 414 million. Over five years, the AMB field was to be lifted on the State budget, and it is clear that it is formidable. But I think that if everyone stands together to try to do this, we'll do it. In the case of alcohol and caravans, I guess it belongs in a different context, so we'll have to do it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e730	There has been support for various publications for many years. Within this we find magazines like Samora, Clear Speech, Blick and the Christian newspapers Magazine, Norway IDAG and the Victory of the Cross. The latter is new to the year. Before that item, there have historically been no clear criteria for the distribution of the aid. It has been very discretionary, depending on changing political constellations. The Party wishes to base objective criteria for the award within this item, criteria that are easily measurable and difficult to manipulate, inter alia. storage and release frequency. It is, of course, unnecessarily hard to lay about such support overnight. Therefore, we have proposed that half of the aid be distributed according to these criteria and half according to the same distribution as before. In negotiations with the government parties, we were impressed by the principles of our proposal, which we are very pleased with. However, there is a disagreement as to how quickly this principle can be introduced. The Progress Party wishes to see a conversion from 1 January onwards with effect from 2003, the 2004 Government Parties. This will affect the Christian magazines, which I thought the Christian People's Party was busy with. If the government parties had chosen to follow the proposal of the Progress Party No. 23 in the position, these papers would be given a solid and demanding boost in 2003. I'm putting big question marks on this. I don't understand why the Christian People's Party will treat the Christian newspapers worse than, for example. The gay leaf Blick.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e737	I must regret this controversy in retrospect between the Progress Party and the other contracting parties on this point, the post of various publications. This should have been unnecessary, and the discussion has only occurred after the agreement has been concluded. The government has signaled that they are working on a regulatory framework for this item, and there is a lot of talk that the various publications should receive their support calculated on the basis of objective criteria. In fact, we agree with the Progress Party, so that is not what this is all about. But what there's disagreement about is when this is going to happen. In the budget, the various publications contain a certain amount. They've been budgeting this for next year. Part of these, I'm familiar with, won't tolerate a cutting at all. Then they just want to go in. We have a division of labour in our constitution, which means that at least it is essentially government and administration that formulates legislation. The Storting should be very careful with that, because we don't know the consequences. Nor do we know the consequences of the proposal contained in the comments of the Progress Party in the vote. That is why we have said that this must be looked at by the department. We know, for example. not what it will mean for other publications outside. If there are objective criteria, they will report immediately – there is now one thing. With regard to the Christian magazines, we have a great sense that they should get more money. That also applies to others, and we in the Christian People's Party do not want to treat the Christian magazines in any other way than others. In a democracy, everyone must stand on the same footing. The Christian journals are also not to be made worse, and we are to ensure that these criteria are all set at the same level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e749	It's often nice to hear Ola T. Lånke talk about cultural policy. Sometimes I could almost believe he was a member of the SV. It's only when he's going up with the wallet, that we realize that he's somewhere else. The representative Lånker was earlier interested in whether it was not a problem that SV had so much money they wanted to spend on culture that it created expectations outside. And there was something about "glasshouses". I think Loan himself with his leg stretching the bow quite loudly. I don't know if it's flawed, but it's on the verge. To sit in a glass house, I would like to say that perhaps Lånker would join in. There is a good view from the glass house to see what things are like. So another thing. The settings state that the Lottery Authority should establish a contact phone for game addicts. It surprises me that Lånkke and the Christian People's Party cannot participate in a comment that says that such a contact phone should be established in a place where there is competence, and where there is knowledge of gambling addiction and such things. Furthermore, the establishment of such a contact phone is of no value if treatment services are not available. SV made a proposal earlier this year to grant more money for treatment. All the other parties said they couldn't, because that wasn't enough knowledge. But everyone knows that there are not enough treatment places. What is the purpose of establishing such a contact telephone if the treatment offer does not exist, and will Loan next time be involved in granting money to such treatment institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e758	The representative of Lund Bergo thought it was nice to hear that I was talking about cultural policy, and I get to take that as a compliment. The difference between what we could want, and what SV suggests, of course, is about money. But the representative, Lund Bergo, has also pointed out today that they wanted to invest money that we want to spend on health schools, on culture. It's an honest thing, but we think colleges are a very important part of our schoolwork, and that's why we defend it. We also want to spend money on defending our homeland and culture, and that is why we are also involved in having a fairly high level of defence budgets, etc. This belongs in the areas of other departments. But the specific question went to the Lottery Authority. The Christian People's Party – and I think the Government, I can bring it – is in favour of creating such a contact phone for game addicts. But what we later discovered in the comment that SV submitted, and to which someone else has joined, was just that there was a lead here on where in the country this contact phone was to be located, and there might be more opinions. There may also be several places in the country where the competence requested by the representative Lund Bergo exists. So back to the division of labour between big business and government. The Christian People's Party will not agree that the Storing will instruct the government on where things should be placed in every case. This has traditionally been the responsibility of the government, and I think we will see that the government is in favour of this both in terms of contact telephone and treatment services. It's also in another department, so I shouldn't say much about it. But at least there are things going on in the ministry's work that make me think this will come, and then we'll see where, later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e768	The centre party is genuinely concerned and will express disappointment that in its proposal for the state budget, the government is depriving culture as much as it has done. This budget, adopted in the Grand Duchy by the votes of the Government Parties and the Progress Party, will in practice mean a lower level of activity at most cultural institutions across the country, and not least in the culture of the many large and small communities. The centre party wishes to ensure the framework conditions for increased cultural self-activity and cultural dissemination in all parts of the country. And in line with the party's efforts in recent years, both in government and in opposition, we are committed to strengthening the areas of the cultural budget that lay the basis for people's involvement and participation in local culture. In a society that is changing, encounters with art and culture provide important reference frameworks for cultural insights, anchoring in its own culture and thereby the basis for respect for different forms of cultural expression. All-round cultural provision and the possibility of cultural self-activity are also crucial in some cases to maintain well-being, confidence in the future and to live in many communities. With all this background, I'm happy to announce to the Stortinget that the Central Party in its alternative budget is proposing to increase the allocation of various cultural activities by 200 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The centre party refers to the Storting decision that the change of the key was intended to give the cultural field fresh resources and not result in cuts in the appropriations. The government has made the very opposite of what was Storting's intention. The Central Party proposes to reverse the cuts proposed by the Government by granting $12 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The Centre also sees that one of the main tools for facilitating local cultural activities is the establishment of local and regional cultural houses. The list of projects, i.e. municipalities waiting for government funding are long and there is also a strong need to provide broadband connectivity for the country’s public library. In an attempt to correct the government's emergency in these cases, the Central Party proposes to grant 100 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. But the Center Party does not just want local and regional cultural buildings. The party also increases the allocation of nearly 40 million national cultural buildings. kr. This is absolutely necessary in order to comply with the Storting decision on the realization of a large number of buildings. By a majority of the Central Party configurations, among other things, would be: the construction of the Hålogaland Theatre could start in 2003 as foreseen. It is almost shameful that there is no will in the majority of the population to give priority to the work on North Norwegian culture and Hålogaland. However, there are also other projects pending, and all parties should now feel obliged to implement projects on the priority list. The majority add up to the extra shift in time, and even greater lag. The centre party will also express disappointment that the Government does not step up the resources of the library sector, as foreseen by the Stortinge when handling the ABM message in 2000. We are also disappointed and a little surprised that the government in this budget does not follow up the Storting decision to establish national knowledge bases. Here, there is a high risk of arrears in maintenance and updating, and we believe that a national knowledge base should also pursue the linguistic policy objective of equality between book objectives and new-sellers. Together with the Arbeiderpartiet and SV, we therefore ask «The government is starting work on the online knowledge portal in 2003 in line with the Stockholm decision in Innst. [[2001-2002]] S. No 77 The Centre Party welcomes and supports the allocation to the Art Nouveau Centre in Ålesund. We are also pleased that a joint committee supports the plans for a new national cultural boat for the whole coast from Halden to Kirkenes. Finally, the Centre Party would stress the importance of predictability and non-discrimination in the allocation of State budget funds. We therefore believe, in principle, that increased funds should be distributed as far as possible through the established grant schemes. The primary task of the size is to adopt guidelines and criteria for distribution and to provide adequate resources for the different purposes. By this I mean to warn against excessive detailed management by Stortinget. The desire for detailed management may also lead to randomness and at least contribute to greater unforeseeability in the allocation of funds. As mentioned earlier, the Centre Party is disappointed with the government's lack of cultural commitment in the submitted budget proposal and notes a huge gap between the adopted framework for the cultural budget and the Central Party's priorities in the alternative budget. It was impossible for the Centre Party to make proposals in line with the priorities of the Party without affecting other important and vulnerable actions in the budget. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals made by the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e791	Ola T. Heggem has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e794	The government and the Stortinget have continued the escalation of the 2002 cultural budget, which was proposed by the government of Stoltenberg. This level will be continued next year, and that means that we will have a good cultural budget at that time. The left wants to bet more on culture in its programme – and in terms of increased spending on the state budget. In this way, we would like to have even more cultural crowns to rot with. But culture, too, is all about having a clean social economy to work in, with low price rises and lower interest rates. Within a tight total budget, we'll have a good year for cultural life next year. Of course, changing the key also makes it so. Then we have a traditional overtime debate in this room, where many good measures are promised more money by parties that are not in a position to settle. Politics is still the art of the possible, and it does little to help with promises funded by billions of dollars in Defense or increasing taxation of business, as long as there are no pluralities for such actions, and as long as the most eager parties will not be involved by cooperating with a government that is more important to create distance in the tactical approach to the next choice. As before, that's the result that counts, not the big words. The big political distinction in this setting is between the Progress Party and the other parties. This party has a policy for raging large parts of Culture-Noreg. Yes, this policy is so radical that Norway would hardly be a cultural nation if this policy were to be implemented. When the culture must initially be ‘based on volunteering and personal commitment’, as the Progress Party writes in the setting, it is a gross underestimation of what needs to be just a cultural nation, where not all things are suitable for commercialisation and the market, and where not all culture can be based on amateurism. I am pleased that the Progress Party has taken responsibility for the country's budget, through subsidiary support to the Government. By doing so, they help us get a cultural budget without the big changes. The party of progress has seen a lot of horses on the stable and hastens praise for it. In addition, in the budget agreement, there is an increase in the cultural budget for both ship protection, sailing and other cultural activities. A culture society builds on knowledge and creation. Art and culture have a self-esteem and are of crucial importance for the development of the individual's personality and quality of life. Man has more than material needs. Cultural outbursts provide insight, create security and break down prejudices and fear of the future. Left joins the general comments from the Right and Christian People's Party in the setting, and of course the suggestions they support. I particularly point out what was said about giving room for new forms of art and culture, the conditions for voluntary organisations and the follow-up of operasa. The measures that benefit from the changes in the key – Freefonds, the cultural school and local and regional cultural buildings – are heart issues for the Left. We were opposed to the decision of the majority, for research purposes, but the government would obviously have cut for a lift in these fields regardless of the form of funding. Here, too, that's the result that counts. The left looks forward to the cultural message coming next year, and culture is coming even higher on the agenda, both in politics and in the social debate, or else. It can provide room for new lifts in the later budget. In the meantime, it may be said that 2003 will be a cultural policy in a number of fields, but with a good starting point from this year it will be a good way to live with. The left will also hope that there will be room for the Hålogaland Theatre and other new actions in the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e823	There was only one thing I was sitting by in the post of the representative Vihovde. The government parties opposed the change in the key, but, as the representative said, they would have ensured, in any case, a strengthening of the areas that were now strengthened by the change in the tipping agents. Now it's about 450 million. SEK of the amount of the increase in the amount of money spent on sport. There we no longer have appropriations for the State budget. They're only getting support from the tippers. If so, would the government parties have reinstated appropriations for the sport of the State budget? The other area she thought was significantly strengthened is regional and local cultural buildings. That's not what the representative says. So on the state budget, it's cut by 34.2 million. In regional and local cultural construction – and state councillor Svarstad Haugland stood here on the pulpit last year criticising the majority of population for cutting by 5.4 million. kr. It was cut in Frifond by 22.2 million. kr. It does not just happen with the knowledge and will of the government parties, but it is actually their incited proposals in the budget. So my question is, does this rhyme with what the representative says about actually wanting to pluralize those areas? And where in the world would the sporting appropriations be put?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e830	Let me start with the key. The concern left regarding the change in the key was that when one took the money for research away, one had to take the permits for researching over the state budget. We're glad that part of this money has come back to cultural life. But that means the government has to go in and follow up on the piece of research. When it comes to the income of voluntary teams and organizations, the Left is very pleased that we have increased the tax exemption by providing money to voluntary teams and organisations and getting greater tax exemptions on it. We believe that this can be an important contribution to the voluntary teams and organisations. These are revenues that are not tied up in projects, on things that we might want to prioritise, but there is money that comes directly to the organisations and that they can use. So I'm going to admit that this budget that has been delivered is a tight budget, and as I said, it will also be a sleepy year for the cultural budget in general. But that's what we want to look at next year. At least this tight budget has given rise to a fall in interest rates. It has made it possible for business to flourish and a weaker dollar price. Now, it might be possible for business to be more involved and use its surplus to give to cultural life. There are Norwegian businesses that are good, and we want to stimulate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e839	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e843	Children are exposed to daily advertising and commercialised entertainment. It is therefore important to encourage children to take care of our Community values created through generations. We see that changes in society have changed the framework conditions for cultural policy. Around our long-range country, there is a lot of great culture that is important to take care of, and that is not just of interest to the branch or municipality in which culture is created, but to the whole country. With the budget envelopes provided by the Bondevik government, there may be some government councils that need to use the Probe and sing 'You'll get a day in a hurry', or perhaps some want to make themselves small like the teaspoon ring. I am very disappointed that the government parties and the Advance Party could not participate in a grant to the Prøysenhuset that allows children to experience and knowledge of one of our dearest wisest authors, Alf Prøysen. That's how you make Alf Prøysen a cultural householder. The Workers' Party believes that the flora of festivals that are around Norway is an enrichment for many, both actors, spectators and organizers. Many festivals also invite international musicians, choirs and corps. Of course, this costs a lot to the organizer. There are many festivals that are struggling financially and cannot continue without state support. In order to meet the plans and ambitions of the party games to expand their field of impact, develop their artistic programme, maintain an increasing number of audiences and, in addition, allow even more festivals to be supported by the Workers' Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to increase festival support. In addition, I would like to point out that the awards made by the Norwegian Culture Council festival support scheme do not always reflect the importance and quality of the various festivals. I would like to stress that this should be a genre-wide scheme. This must be carefully considered and evaluated by the Council of State and the Ministry of Culture criteria. The Labour Party will underline the need for children to have better access to different cultural expressions and to participate themselves in cultural activities. We've got a lot of positive feedback on how successful the cultural school bag is. This underlines the importance of all schoolchildren getting more culture in their bags. And the funds must not be lost in administration, but should be channelled and managed by the cultural departments of the county, which know the cultural offer in their municipalities and counties. The Workers' Party has strengthened the financial basis for local organisations through a change of state funds with a view to ensuring free access for children and young people to sports facilities. Sport creates a lot of commitment among people, and the Workers' Party will boast parents and volunteers who work hard to create a good community. The sports organisations are doing a great job, but I would like to stress that it is also important to facilitate activities involving unorganised youth, such as motorsports, climbing, go-karts, rallying and other things. Public poverty, largely due to the strenuous local economy, has resulted in the closure of many swimming facilities. Means of upgrading swimming pools are necessary to provide children and young people with the joy of mastering swimming — in functional swimming pools. By changing the key, grants can now also be opened to swimming pools. It will be a great pleasure for all generations. Culture is diversity – from Ole Ivars to Arne Norheim. It has to be up to each and every one to find their joy in music genres or in imagery, theatre or dance. As intermediaries of Norwegian-language text and music expressions, Norwegian phonograms act as significant cultural carriers, making sure that people are most familiar with a variety of genres and styles from both past and present. The Workers' Party believes that this part of cultural life is subject to considerable commercial pressure, and the Workers' Party had in its own budget proposals to grant 3 million. to strengthen the purchasing system for Norwegian phonograms in order to ensure diversity, distinctiveness and quality of Norwegian-language music for the future as well. Good dance music is actually also culture. Some people talk warm about how sinful it is to dance, but people who dance are happy people and stay in shape. He any seen a jogger smile? I say like the Prøysen in his «Vårvise»: «D» is a fali for him as a din, but if you stand still and feel, then it is a fali, as it happens!» [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e873	As an original heathmark, you can be inspired by Eirin Fallet when she starts quoting Prøysen. But I don't have time for it now – I have so little time. But what I want to say is that a generally good economic policy is also good cultural policy. The cultural budget must also be seen in the context of the need for a tight state budget. The interest reduction this week will result in over 400 million. kr more to the municipalities next year. It will provide a better family economy and a better economy for the individual. In addition, tax reliefs will provide room for more cultural and cultural experiences and activities and will focus more on culture in municipalities. A good industrial policy is also important for a part of cultural life. We now see a number of examples of fruitful interactions and cooperation between culture and nutrition, which I hope will increase in the future. Despite very tight budgetary frameworks and tough priorities, most areas of art and culture are well cared for, but of course the Right wants a greater public investment in key areas. I think that when we get the order of the national economy, culture will be one of our important areas of activity. I want to say a little bit about the cultural school bag. It's about culture, and it's about school. Culture is important in school to give children impulses other than professional ones, to stimulate their own thinking and creativity – yes, culture is fundamental to our growth, development and quality of life. Culture is also important in providing children with understanding and respect for diversity, diversity and variation. Culture for children can tear down barriers and fences, countering fear of alienation and providing security. Cultural activities can also be used actively in school learning. Participation in small and large cultural projects provides important overall understanding and mastery learning. School leavers should therefore be something more than just a little extra cultural mediation in school. School bag activities can also play an active educational role in enriching education and providing students with important inspiration, motivation and creativity. It is a unanimous committee that sees that the distribution of school assets so far has not necessarily taken place in an optimal way. We have received several enquiries about how the distribution takes place, who is to be compensated and who is to distribute the funds, etc. The Committee has therefore asked the Government to return to the Spring Stortingen with its own case on the use of school baggage in 2003 and plans for future distribution. As part of this assessment, consideration should also be given to how the school and education sectors can play together with the county municipalities in order to maximise the use of school baggage. School assets must go to cultural activities that the school and its students need and which they want to take advantage of. In order to ensure that school assets are used in the best possible way, for the benefit of students, it would not be unnatural for the school to be given an active order role and have an impact on the cultural measures to be used for school bags. Here I'll give you an example. Norwegian school has a serious problem. Every five students leave high school with very poor reading skills. This is due, inter alia, to: that students read too little even in leisure time. In order to stimulate the interest in books and reading, for example: launch national literacy projects to stimulate more reading among students in collaboration with libraries, in collaboration with authors, theatres and actors. We also have large resources in museums that could be used far more for educational purposes if we made exhibitions and shows that were adapted to the needs of the students and the schools. The channelling of the bulk of funds through the county municipality should therefore not prevent the school and education sector from participating in and developing national efforts to meet local needs for each school. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee sees the value of, and is positive, establishing an Arne Ekeland gallery at Eidsvoll in connection with the Rikspolitische Zenter. Ekeland was supposed to be known to everyone. He meets us with his monumental image "Sisters of Freedom" every time we go down to the stairwell here in Stortinget. A gallery in an old brick building near where he lived and lived could be a worthy end to his artistic work, and I'm glad that the committee supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e896	It's fun to be FrPs today and finally and hopefully once and for all take a settlement with all those who claim that the Progress Party is culturally hostile. Well then, we still want to cut the cultural budget, but at the same time we want to strengthen what is about tradition and cultural heritage. Still, we believe that large nationwide and meaningful newspapers should actually do their own thing, and that they should get income on their own and not finance their opinions through the state. Still, we believe that filmmaking should be conducted commercially, that there is nothing that the state should put its fingers away. Well, Norway is a small country, and it is limited to how many are willing to make venture capital available, but films are and will become a form of expression that taxpayers should not be double-loaded to see – first above the tax bill to finance production, and then when we go to the cinema to see the film. Still, we are very opposed to artists having some kind of warranty and artist pay from the state. If you choose to become an artist, you must not expect to become a Munch or a Nerdrum right away. You actually have to take the time you need, and maybe live in tight conditions for a while, if you choose to be an artist of the profession. It is our free choice as a human being, and our choices must also take the consequences of whether we choose to be an artist or a politician. So we stand firm on the cultural policy we have, let there be no doubt about it. It is therefore very funny to point out that, through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, first at the overall level and then in the Trade Committee, the government parties have actually strengthened the cultural budget by more than 43 million. kr in relation to the proposals submitted. If we had an opinion on these requirements, someone would probably ask themselves, and the answer is definitely yes. If you look at what areas we've chosen to prioritise, it becomes very clear that we actually have an opinion about what we're doing. Very important individual things that are of great importance to our cultural history, and not least to our posterity, are strengthened. And even more important, it's that 43 million. kr generates both hard work and additional money from both public and private teams. It is very gratifying for us in the Advance Party that the sailors are now secured further sailing. It's not just about these shots being nice to watch as they sail beyond the fjord for full sail. It's also about taking history into the future, letting our children know their story when they create their own. Norway has a long history of trade and shipping, and it would have been awfully sad about this story that these shots to the full teller, would end up in the dock or on the scrapheap. Furthermore, we must not allow ourselves to forget the war story. By strengthening Falstad and Mountain, we guarantee this, and at the same time we show the respect that all those who fell during the war deserve. We can't afford to forget, especially after September 11th and with the troubled times we experience today. That we take care of history both through architecture, such as The Art Nouveau Centre, and other things I've been through in the past, doesn't mean we're not going to look forward, and we're not going to let kids and young people take an interest in both culture and sport. We got 3 million back. kr to Frifond. We should of course wish we had put the whole pot back, but that's what we did in this round. After we had made the adjustment, we were informed that the government parties have taken these funds from nationwide music organisations. This wasn't our intention. We want voluntary teams and organisations to have the best conditions under which to work. We want children and young people to be able to experience the theatrical and musical joys that the organisations contribute to. It works for $40 billion a year in labor in this country. And then we have to set the conditions for this maybe something typical Norwegian. We as decision-makers must ensure that the spirit of hard work is maintained, because at least the state does not have the money to compensate for this. I'm glad that we managed to strengthen Dissimilis' economy, so that these can also continue to do the amazing work that they do, for the benefit of them with slightly different resources than us. The commitment and joy we see in these children and young people is of such a nature that we other people almost become a little envious. It would have been a tragedy across the country if this measure had had to wind up parts of the business because they had no money. Finally, I must also say something about sport. Through the agreement with the government parties, we have secured Norway a national recreational facility. This becomes known as a spice layer, where both the private, the municipality and now the state also contribute their share. It matters not only to top athletes, but also to the grassroots in Oslo and on a national basis when they get a modern arena to meet. So I think this should make it clear that we have a thoughtful cultural policy, and that we dare to say what many think.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e932	Art and culture have a self-esteem and play a fundamental role both in the quality of life and in the development of society. Cultural outburst and training counteract the fear of the future and help to create security. It is an important objective to ensure that the whole people access to a lack of cultural experiences. Government will build on the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage as a common basis for our society. In a tight budgetary situation, I have given decisive attention to keeping up an almost unchanged level of access to institutions in the field of music and stage art, to museums and other institutions and firm measures. I have also prioritised following up on the key messages about archives, libraries and museums — including the creation of a national museum of art, and further development and upgrading of the National Library. Work on the construction of a new opera in Bjørvika is going according to plan. When the National Museum of Art now gets the formal framework that makes it possible to coordinate the project, we have completed the first stage in an important cultural project for both Oslo and the country. The co-organization means that a stronger organisational and professional platform is created to further develop the state museum's work on art, crafts, design and architecture. The National Library is one of the largest and most important cultural institutions in the country, and it is important to secure the cultural historical values managed by the institution. As a result, the assignment to the National Library will be increased. The permissions of the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library are also increased, so that the provision of discretionary and study literature for visually impaired students is significantly improved. For educational, cultural and, not least, social policy reasons, the tasks currently assigned to Norwegian audio and Braille libraries must be properly and adequately resolved. This is why the Ministry has undertaken a report on how the public library and study literature services for the blind and visually impaired can best be organised and financed in the future. In the handling of the depositing proposition on the conversion of the Defense, the Government was asked to assess whether the divisional music in Halden and Kristiansand would be transferred to the Ministry of Culture and the Church and further driven in cooperation with the relevant municipalities and county municipalities. I am pleased that we have been closed to arrive at an economic and organisational platform for the future civil operation of the Corps. Hålogaland Theatre has had and will have a great impact on stage art in Northern Norway, and indeed for the whole country. It's important to get a new theater house in Tromsø to give room for the development of the theater. Therefore, I am sorry that it was not possible to add funds for the construction project to the 2003 budget. The government is behind the project, and Hålogaland Theatre is in line when it comes to realising new projects. I want to do my part to stop the project. I also find it necessary to comment on the wording of the Committee's work on the cultural curriculum and to propose a decision on this important measure. It would be useful to involve the regional level in the coordination and implementation of this dissemination project, as the Committee says. Several municipalities have made a great effort all over the country, and there is every reason to believe that all municipalities will be able to carry out such a task with the allocation of economic resources. However, it is an important dimension of this measure that will not be optimally addressed by an immediate decentralisation of all the new resources: filling the cultural school with a content that maintains objectives of artistic and cultural quality requires resources to be set up to tailor performances, views and educational arrangements for the various age stages of the core school. Although a large number of artists and cultural workers can make an effort to realize the cultural school system, many of these measures will first be applied to both resources and time to develop the supply to be distributed to schoolchildren. In 2003, we should make a contribution to the cultural school of free-stage groups, music ensembles, stand-alone artists and other cultural workers who want to develop qualified projects specifically to adapt the target audiences for this action. We are all certain that the resources available to the cultural school will provide the most possible cultural dissemination per year. heads, and that the administrative costs must be kept as low as possible. This premise must also be indebted to the counties. The Committee points out that the gambling funds should not be allocated to general or direct operating grants to different institutions. I see this as a clear emphasis on the fact that these funds should not be cancelled or superseded by ordinary administrative and general operating rights. And then I expect that we'll come back to the cultural school in the matter with which the Stortinget has asked me to come to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e965	The worst thing I ever attended as a state council was the budget conferences at Halvorsbøle. Twice we had the main budget conference there – and leaving there was a suffering. I remember the last time I left there, I had only received NOK 1.7 billion for research, I had only received SEK 100 million. kr to free books in high school, I had only received NOK 2 billion for refurbishment of school buildings – and I was very depressed, because I would like to have so much more. Ellen Horn, I remember, was just as depressed. She had only gotten 330 million. in increased cultural appropriations. Then you can imagine how the Council of State Valgerd Reply City Haugland must have had it when she returned home and had to write in the budget proposal that there will be a decline in cultural activity in most cultural institutions. Worse still, when the Minister of Finance himself sat there and made sure to get one billion dollars in extra taxes, in addition to what was already in the budget. Then you go to the Stortinget and get at the top of everything into the budget -- not enough of most of the tax revenue goes into -- $20 million. SEK in reduced caravan charge! Only that money could have fixed up the cut at the Hålogaland Theatre building, it could fix the film cut, it could fix the Reichsteater cut, it could fix the cultural fund cut, it could be money to Momentum, to the Bjørson festival and even more actions – within the 20 million. kr. It seems to the Council of State that it says something about the government parties as cultural parties that 25 pst is more important. the reduction in the caravan charge rather than the provision of these measures? And what has Norwegian film done to the Council of State, when half of Ellen Horn's bet has now been removed in a year? And then she finally says she's sorry that Hålogaland Theatre is being stopped – but it's the council that stopped it!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e974	I've traveled from Halvorsbøle in a good mood every time. One cannot let life depend only on what's left of Half Wave. That's when the budgets are put forward, one really sees what's going on. I'm actually going to give Gish honey, but one of the things that amazes me all the time is that he can boast of the Labour Party's budget. I don't understand. For what Gisk did not achieve when he was in government and was going to find a way for his proposals, he has now been able to achieve with the Progress Party and SV without having to find a cure for the whole thing. Is there something to brag about? Had the Stoltenberg administration submitted proposals to change the key and found the impression for what had to come in addition, he could have traveled around and decorated what he had been given, but he has thus received multiple numbers without having to take responsibility for any of the invading. When you talk about the budget, I thought we'd look at it a little over time. When the budget for Ellen Horn was so sabla good for last year – and I'm told that it was good – why in all the world don't you start the escalating to the Hålogaland Theatre? One had come so far that one could have the first chance if a wild, but one left for the year after bringing the first funds. It is also a priority. Ellen Horn's first budget was not really that good. If she admitted it, I don't think. I have now submitted my first budget. It's not that good, I see it, but we've got interest down by half a percent after the total budget we've submitted, and I'm glad. I hope that next year I'll have more to do when it comes to culture. That's the way it is. One year will be fine, another year won't be so good. But Culture-Noreg is not going to be a foreign budget with what's being presented this year either, and it's important for me to go under. I asked the representative Giske to be a little bit more modest in relation to what he got when he put in position, and what he got into opposition, where he must have no responsibility whatsoever to get the coverage for the amazing proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e983	There has been support for various publications for many years. Historically, it may have been used or abused by politicians who have wanted to allocate money to selected publications without in any way seeing it in context or explaining why one gets a lot, while another gets little. The Progress Party wants to get rid of this unculture where changing political majority can distribute money in a discretionary way. The Progress Party proposes to base objective criteria on the award. It is only by using such objective criteria that we avoid giving lobbyists power and that politicians have the opportunity to benefit from special interest groups. The Progress Party has proposed to identify objective criteria to support the objectives of the Simple, measurable and difficult to manipulate entry. Even we've found out the number of publications, and how often they come out, they're good for a rich offer. At the same time, we have realized that many of the publications would be unnecessarily hard hit if we left the support overnight. Therefore, we have proposed that half of the aid be distributed according to these criteria and half according to the same distribution as before. In negotiations with the government parties, we were impressed by the principle in our proposal, which we are very pleased with. We want to make these objective criteria apply from 2003. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to know how quickly the Minister for Culture intends to introduce objective criteria for the award of press support to various publications.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e992	Some of the things I discovered when I was the Council of State was the post of «Various Publications». I knew about the post office already, but I did not know that he was so little governed. So, in fact, the budget proposal from the Ministry and the Government already says that we want to go into this entry and do something with it, so that he can be more rule-driven than he is today. So when the representative says that the Progress Party has had an impact, one might also say that the Progress Party supports what is in the budget position that we should have such a review. We agreed on that. At the same time, we know that these are publications where the people behind them, for example. different organisations, have become dependent on these funds. In fact, proposing a conversion that will take place from 1 January 2003, which the Progress Party really wants, or from 1 July, will lead an irresponsible policy. This will provide a very difficult budget for next year for a number of publications that have budgeted for what they think they get. I don't want them to get into a very unfortunate situation in the middle of the year or already right over New Year, as they would if the Progress Party had got what they wanted. I want to be responsible for all the publications and come up with the criteria for 2004. The publications may then have time to discuss, and they may also be informed in good time of the results of the publication. So 1 January 2004 is the earliest I can go in for such a conversion, because it has to be done thoroughly, it has to be real, and we also have to see what different outcomes this can get. Some of the publications may have special needs that we also need to take care of. It's not always that objectivity is the best thing to do when allocating funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e999	It must be difficult for a minister with restrictive positions on the release of commercial forces and the purchasing press aimed at children and young people to be the minister closest to the sideline and passively observing the increase in commercial pressure against children and young people in the NRC. It's with mixed emotions we see how the NRK, which we've all agreed on being an advertising-free zone for children and young people, has now become a media institution that spends the best transmission time for indirect advertising directed directly at children and young people. This is a speculative way of placing important symbols and effects on products that happen to be found in shops at the same time as the series goes on air. At the same time, there is a highly sophisticated way to get many small, eager and loyal concept customers who will and only have to have exactly the lua, the CD or the new jacket from Bergans before the sleep shuts down the needs for a while, until the next Christmas calendar day. Does the Minister for Culture view this hidden advertising and commercialisation as a problem? In that case, what action will the Council of State take to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1008	The impression of having a seat and listening here for a while is that most opposition politicians are very concerned about all the problems that the Christian People's Party is currently having. It's nice that you're worried about it. I've started to look at it more as a challenge than a problem, and I think it means that one has a slightly more offensive attitude to what a grip should take. But I see a big challenge – to put it that way – in relation to the advertising press that is directed at children and young people. It is especially these spin-off products the representative is thinking about in relation to Barne-TV. What has happened before in the years is that other actors have made a lot of spin-off product and started a lot of it, and the revenue has certainly not returned to the NRK. If we're going to take a positive view of that, I thought to the extent that it's okay that when you're going to get income from this, they can go back to the NRK, and that you can create new and better programs. This is something that I know the Minister for Children and Family Affairs has been busy with, and is in dialogue with the NRK about, and which I thought we should look at a little further. This applies to the time when these products can be sold, and also to the number of products to be sold. I believe that children will not be harmed by the fact that we have some gouts, some gouts, or whatever it might be. But now there's an unlikely number of products you've added. I think you can look at the extent and also at the time, because we have a very commercialization of childhood. It's a big challenge for us to join and try to build up our children not to be too strongly influenced by it. So we take this seriously, and we're in dialogue with the NRK on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1018	Also in previous line changes I have heard about different experiences and different moods after budget conferences. Budgetary work is difficult. Budgetary work actually means priority, and it's tough to prioritize culture. Many politicians at all levels have experienced this. Both yesterday, during the treatment of the municipal budget, and also today, the Christian People's Party expresses such joy and satisfaction with the state budget of the year, and they have it all excellent. Nevertheless, is it now that the Council of State is satisfied with what has been achieved on this year's cultural budget, where activity is reduced and construction projects are pushed out on time? I do not want to put this up against spirits and caravans on this occasion, nor against raising the bottom-up and tax reliefs to business. No, I want to hear the Council of State's assessment of the cultural effort and culture for everyone up against tax credits for those who serve like us, and who can dispose of our tax base to increased private luxury. Finally, a brief question concerning national knowledge base: how has the Council of State planned to follow up the clear decision of the Grand Duchy to initiate that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1029	It is now the case when one is in government with another party, that one must give and take when a negotiator. For the first tax year, a large majority in the Storting is also behind it. It's business rights, good tax laws that we need at a time when we notice that jobs are under pressure and where we need to facilitate people's investment and to secure jobs and create new ones. I have no problem standing behind the taxes proposed by the Government. When there were some new tax breaks in the negotiation, it is again: One must give and take. The advance party had cut the cultural budget by 600 million. I thought, in relation to what we have got back in the negotiations with them, that 100 million kroner. kr on spirits and something on caravans is to live with, because very much else of what we have proposed has been preserved. It's very important to me. If we had gone into the premises that were the basis of the Progress Party's alternative cultural budget, I had not had it particularly well today. But with what we've done, I'm quite satisfied, even though I'm going to be honest and say that I can think of more money for culture. I hope I get to the next year. It's like the Stoltenberg government. One more year didn't get that much. Another year got another. I hope it's going to be like this for us, that the economy is the way for the country that we're going to have room for it. When it applies to the national knowledge base, we added funds to it last year. It's one of the things that was stroked out in the negotiations. So there are no funds on my budget for the National Knowledge Base. We are currently forced to follow developments, and then we will have to see in the future whether we can find funds, if necessary, to move on with that base.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1038	I read from an article in the newspaper there, among other things. read: ‘It is worrying that a Minister of Culture does not have a greater insight into what it means to write fiction,’ says author Jan Kjærstad to Dagbladet. The famous words from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland fell in the last issue of the magazine The Author, the body of the Norwegian Author's Association: 'You have to write more books to live on it,' said the Minister for Culture. ‘In the year?’ the interviewer asks. ‘Yes, of course, in the year,’ she replies.’ Is it possible that the Council of State has said this? I now give the Minister of Culture the opportunity to explain what she really said and meant. I am aware that the Minister of Culture has a State Secretary who is a composer. On the basis of this paper, I believe that the Norwegian Association of Authors would have been very happy if the Council of State appointed a State Secretary, and then one who was a writer. Because when it comes to knowledge of how a writer works, I think maybe the government council has to take a few hours on the school bench. Then I have to say at the end, in the light of the replacement of the lines here in place: of course, we can fully agree with the Council of State when she says as she does that it is in fact the Workers' Party also in opposition that stands for the additions that have come. Then it's not right when she says we don't have a containment. The employee's party has a crown for crowns in its alternative budget, so that's what they said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1054	Now it is time to say that this was a question I was happy to get. I might have asked Jan Kjærstad to read the whole article. Of course, I didn't say that they had to write more books this year. But if they're going to live by just writing books, without any scholarship or other, they have to. But that's not the point. We're using $170 million. kr on various scholarship and guarantee receipts, precisely because artists will have time to concentrate on the job they are writing books. A lot of people spend a long time doing that. But when the average income of a book is NOK 70000, I said it can't live off. So then we have arrangements that make us still have a lot of writers who write great books, and we're going to have that. Some people have to have other jobs in addition. I also think it's very good to live with, while at certain times others can only concentrate on writing. We must continue this deficiency. The representative may be in a position to do so. So if Jan Kjærstad had read the whole article, I don't think he had written it this way in his article. So to the comment on my answer to Giske's line. Yes, the Labour Party has given priority to this budget, for example. cut half of the cash support to the families of children from 1 January onwards. That'll give some families $1,500, and then that, less in the month to live off. I didn't think I was responsible. Gisk was responsible for a budget that applied to the private schools, or the boarding schools. He didn't even follow the laws with respect to the budget. We've done that, and we've added 400 million. kr, because it is the promise that these schools will have. It didn't make sense, but we did. That is why we must give priority to the other budgets. It's nice to come out with a proposal where we go in +/- 0 and have a proper treatment of it. These are priorities, both in relation to what the law says we should do, and in relation to having a family framework, for example. so that they can plan and live by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1065	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1068	Culture is a part of life for all people. In today's technological and globalizing world, it is more important than ever to ring the ring of culture and its values. The lack and imagination around the country is great, and everyone should have had a comment in the budget. Unfortunately, this year's cultural budget is very weak, and the Council itself comments by saying that the cultural budget does not reflect the Government's ambitions. We are looking forward to next year's budget, where the Council of State, Val Gardena Svarstad Haugland, realizes its ambitions. Libraries are both culture and public information. Unfortunately, surveys show that fewer and fewer books are being read in Norway and, at a time when the literacy skills of children and young people in Norway are poorer than in other countries. I am pleased that an entire committee believes it is important to go through all kinds of library services in order to find better solutions for the interaction between lending services. In particular, it is important to look at the school libraries in relation to the public libraries. However, the multilingual library is also an important contribution to the participation of minorities in cultural diversity. At present, libraries throughout the country are being laid down. Of course, this has something to do with today's weak local economy. At the same time, a number of major changes have been made in relation to today’s statutory library services. I think I've had the whole country on the phone about these hearings, and everyone thinks this is a wrong way to go. I hope the Council of State will follow up the answers to the hearing. Broadband bets are necessary for libraries to provide good services. The working party proposes 5 million. kr for this purpose. Unfortunately, the Government does not give priority to broadband. We in the Workers' Party had believed that the assumptions for an economic escalation in the processing of the ABM message would be effective. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and the Labour Party expects the library service to receive an increase in the 2004 budget. The state will operate the prison libraries, but what is happening now is that the host municipalities need three supportive measures in order for the offer to function at all. Prison libraries play a central role in the rehabilitation of prisoners. Reading books is the only activity for those who sit in isolation. I would ask the Council of State to also consider these libraries and come back to the revised budget with this issue. I am not going to draw up all cultural measures in Northern Ireland, but I am just going to note that the government parties and partly the Progress Party are unable to follow majority decisions from the budget in 2002. The government parties went in at the last year's budgetary procedure with the Workers' Party to support the Hamsun Centre with a start-up grant. With the Progress Party on the load, it is of course the Progress Party that now controls the cultural budget, and there is not much to pick up, except for boats. With an increase in the budget of 20 million. kr to boats they managed to steer away from the ‘Old Finnmarken’ fast-haul ship. If I am to present something culturally pleasing to Nordland, it must be that a majority has once again pointed out that the 1996 extension of the 1996 NRC licence meant that the scope of broadcasting for individual television regions should be the same. This is a matter that was up in Stortinget before the NRK was converted into AS, and has nothing to do with the fact that the NRK is now AS and independent. Finally, I want to draw out the Hålogaland Theatre. It is sad to read VG from the last Saturday when a worn-out staff has expressed their despair at the lack of funds for funding from the government parties and the Progress Party. Half of the staff at the theater applies for leave. That's enough. Thirty years of fighting ended like it did. North Norway doesn't have a single theater building. Everyone is concentrated from Trondheim and south. This would be a boost for North Norway and the whole country. This would not be part of the government parties, and I ignore the Progress Party. It seems that tax relief is important. Is it creating culture across the country? I'm asking Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1094	This is a strange debate, and the arguments of the Council of State for the current poor cultural effort are also strange. This makes me think of what the Evening Post wrote in October in a title: ‘Does Vigelandspark pay itself?’ The question is raised in relation to public Norway’s priorities. While Oslo in the 1920s could afford to have three people work with the Monolith for 13 years, today’s Oslo signals other than the sale and closure of cinemas, the closure of public baths and the depriorization of, among other things, the sale and closure of cinemas. cultural and leisure activities for children and young people, including: on Nordstrand and on Furuset. So now we've got a government that itself declares that the cultural budget and also the municipalities' economy mean a lower level of activity. Then it's time for such reflections. We're spending incredibly little on cultural activities in Norway. One hundred million. kr extra in the proposed funds from the Workers' Party contributes to increased bet, but even if it does not. The government's proposal is a signal of a different political course. I am actually afraid that the influence of the Progress Party on future state budgets will make the cultural debate pure political bloodbath. This is the main cultural policy challenge we are facing, and I am not concerned that the Minister of Culture as the Christian People's Party leader is concerned about standing behind the Prime Minister in images, but I am concerned when the Minister of Culture has so little impact on the budgets to be set in government. There can't possibly be any argument in relation to the cultural budget that it could get so much worse when negotiating with the Progress Party. What will the future look like? How will next year's government budget be? We're not going to spend more money because cultural activities themselves create a better society and also prevent problems. We don't build skateboarding ramps just for kids to be hazy, or for that matter: we don't run the National Theater so that early ladies from Oslo West won't eat Valium. We run this because it gives us something to live for. But it is a fact that a one-dimensional and commercial-driven society becomes a more vulnerable society, and the societies and states that are building down public support for culture tend to be stronger once the problems have arisen, with sanctions, penalties and targeted measures when things go wrong first, in pure progress party style. These are the expensive societies. I want to mention some examples from my own home country. I had expected greater efforts from the Government now that both industrial workplaces and other types of jobs in the home country are so under pressure. It is a paradox that it is not possible to get with the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party on a cultural initiative, among others. in Hedmark. We didn't get any help with the parties in Elverum. Here we stand alone on our proposal put into the cultural budget that the Festival Games have become so important that they now need to be assessed for node status, and that festival support generally needs to be increased by 5 million. kr. The good plans and ambitions of the games to expand the impact field, develop the artistic program and maintain an increasing audience only got a cold shoulder from, among other things. Right in this round, despite the fact that the Right-Representative Bjørn Hernæs, among others. in the locals have claimed that he has a plan. What was the plan of the Right-Representative Hernæs? Also in the case of bets at the Prøysenhuset, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, with their absence in support of granting very much needed and slim 500,000 kroner for this particularly important cultural offer. The Prøysenhuset, as a nationally open museum and cultural centre, is a nationally important cultural offer. Søl til Auversustzentet in Alvdal could not be contributed in such a way that there was a majority in favour of a workers’ party proposal that gave the Centre an opportunity to be considered in relation to state aid. This needs the Center to give people greater opportunities to get acquainted with the national multi-artist from Hedmark, Kjell Aukrust. I also allow myself to mention our proposal to lift Folldal Gruver into the list of technical industrial cultural memories. Why should we have to stand alone on such a proposal? So sometimes you can ask, could we build the Vigeland plant today? How long would it take for the psychiatrists to come running after the one who made that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1119	I must say I agree with the previous speaker. This budget is bad. But thanks to the new distribution key for the drugs, we will be able from next year to provide the cultural school bag with considerably more resources. SV has worked a long time to strengthen cultural services for the youngest part of the population. We therefore believe that the cultural schooling bag is both a long-term and a strong need for action. Providing all children in the country with such a cultural bag will be an important investment in a more exciting and creative time for children and young people, and it is a pleasure. We have major challenges in the future, both in terms of how to organise and how to distribute these school assets. In the SV we are concerned that the appropriations for the cultural school bag should end up as much as possible as more culture in the bag of every school child, and not as growth in the administrative apparatus of the scheme. We therefore believe that it is most appropriate to grant funds through the cultural departments of the county communities, which know the cultural offer in their districts, so that they actively contribute to filling the bag. We are very sceptical about central governance of the system. Close cooperation between the cultural and education sectors is necessary at all levels to ensure that the bag is the cultural investment in the school that we want. The proposal of a unanimous committee on a statement and the presentation of a plan for the future design of the scheme are welcome. This will be presented as a separate case in the spring of 2003. We will also highlight the importance of including mental retardation in cultural school services. Dissimili’s Centre of Culture and Competence may refer to very good work for children and young people with different disabilities, and we therefore believe that it would be appropriate to involve them in the further development of the cultural school system organised for the mentally handicapped. Finally, I must be allowed to say once again that with this tight budget, I believe that the Committee has not taken overall responsibility for allocating funds from the various measures in municipalities and counties. There have been several examples, but I would like to highlight once again that Momentum, the contemporary art festival in Moss, and Animated Days in Fredrikstad are forward-looking cultural offerings in a state that has received very little funding. I wish the committee could have given a different priority. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that SV is promoting alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1134	May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1137	I refer mainly to the main post of the Christian People's Party, which the representative Lånke held, but I have something I would like to comment on in addition. The Artists' Information Office, KIK, shall work on the dissemination of art and information to and about artists. It's an important job, and it's important for our artists to have an information site that can have the function of a kind of employment agency. An artist base must be as dynamic as possible, and it must be available. Artists must be able to record their work as quickly as possible so that a spin-off effect can be exploited by an exhibition. Then we have to use new technology, and we have to get the base online. The Committee says unanimously that it is aware that Agder Kunstnerzentrum is working on an exciting project to enable this. I am pleased that the Committee asks the Government to evaluate cooperation with the competence environment in South Africa in order to achieve this. Maybe this is the start of our first virtual electronic art gallery. The divisional music referred to the Council of State in its article. It is one thing that I followed in my time in the Committee on Defence, and that I have been able to follow now in the Committee on Culture. I have to say that I am very pleased with the efforts the Ministry of Culture has made in order to find a decent solution so that Sørlanden and Halden do not lose the function of divisional music. I don't want to say more than that I think they're great. Anyone who's seen one of the sail shooters get into a harbor with giants on board knows that there's a cultural heritage we have to preserve. Finally: The Archives Foundation is located in Kristiansand. That house holds a tough and heavy story. Many southerners have bad memories and can tell stories about what happened during the war, when the Gestapo used the house. Torture and pain filled the house. Now the southerners have taken the house back, and there is an affordable effort from many fires. The house houses a strong and challenging exhibition, and those who have not been there should take a walk. You are affected by the pain presented. But what's best about the Archives is that you don't stop there. A peace and conflict management centre has been built in connection with this. Our historical experiences will teach us how to make the future better. I am pleased that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left support this project with 500 000 kroner above the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1150	In my reply with the representative Ola T. Lånke I took up the post Grants for various publications, without feeling that I got a clear and unambiguous answer to my very clear and precise questions. There was nothing clearer after the exchange of lines between the Council of State and the representative of Köløy either. I agree with Lånke that it is of course unnecessary hard to change the support overnight. That is why we have also proposed that only half of the aid be distributed according to objective criteria such as publishing and publishing. The other half is to be distributed according to the same distribution as before. This should ensure that the leaves have the possibility and time for necessary conversion. We are very pleased that the government parties have adhered to this principle, but the disagreement is there when this is to be introduced. We cannot understand that the 2003 conversion cannot be taken, but we must wait until 2004. This will, as I said in a previous line exchange, hit the Christian magazines that I thought the Christian People's Party was occupied with. If the government parties had chosen to follow the proposal of the Progress Party No. 23, these papers would get a solid boost already in 2003. For the magazine and for Norway IDAG, this is about a sum of about 1.5 million. kr. I am aware that the representative Lånke has signed up for an article later today, and I hope that I can get a final answer to the question of why the Christian People's Party will treat the Christian newspapers worse than for example. The gay leaf Blick.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1160	The size has increased on several occasions the licence for the establishment of new television regions. The NRK’s own decision on eleven television regions has been endorsed by the Storting through the designation of a licence to achieve this. Of the increase from the 1996 budget, DKK 10 of the licence was explicitly linked to regional television broadcasts for Northern Ireland. This was before the NRK went over to become a limited liability company. The eleven television regions are now in place. The last of them was Nordland, which started on 16 September 2002 with five minutes of transmission four days a week. In addition, the other ten television regions have 20 minutes of transmission five days a week. As of today, Nordland thus has a total of 20 minutes of district shipments per week, while the others have 120 minutes. However, the NRK has stated that in 2003 Nordland will receive a 20-minute shipment on Fridays. But even with 40 minutes of district shipments a week, Northland will still have a much worse offer than the other regions, namely just one third of what the other ten have. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has been committed for several years to ensure that the last two television regions, Nordland and Østfold, are put in place. The Committee has also committed itself to receiving consignments equivalent to those of the other regions from Nordland. The Committee has expressed its opinion on this in two letters to the Minister of Culture this year. Letter dated 15 January 2002 states: ‘The Committee would like to know how the Stortinget will ensure that Nordland receives direct district broadcasts in line with Stortingen’s intentions and to the extent that the other television regions do.’ Letter dated 9 April 2002 states: ‘The Committee therefore asks the Council of State whether she will ensure that Nordic countries receive equivalent territorial consignments, equivalent to the other offices, during 2003.’ The majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs has stated in its comments that it has been the Storting's clear intention that the coverage of the individual television regions should be the same and assumes that this is now being implemented. It's important to realize that the majority doesn't go into detail and govern the NRK. The majority say nothing about the number of minutes of broadcasts for the different television regions. The NRK can freely raise and lower the number of minutes they want to send, but there should be equal treatment for viewers in this country. I ask that the Council of State now confirm that she will ensure that the NRK ensures that the coverage of the individual television regions is the same. In this particular case, the Council of State should give a clear signal to the NRC that this is expected to be implemented during 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1185	Bislett Stadium has a very special place in the hearts of all sports-interested Northmen. That's why we in the Centre Party are joining the government parties and the Progress Party's proposal to support the project for a new stadium. This is in the former centre party, greats representative and Bislett-general, now the late Arne Haukvik's spirit. That being said, I must be allowed to express a general scepticism for such one-off cases and priorities for individual municipalities that have actually themselves depriorized the rehabilitation and construction of new sports facilities. But, as I said, we support the proposal. With my background it is also natural, and not least good, from this pulpit to be able to say a few words about sports and sports policy. Good, modern sports facilities are essential for achieving the goal of sport and physical activity for all. It is also essential that public authorities, both local and central, be able to prioritise support for local sports, thereby stimulating increased activity in the local voluntary, membership-based sport. We are witnessing a great physical decay, especially among young people. That is why this message is so important. Decisions in principle and adopted award criteria in 2002 will provide more money for children and young people, as well as for multi-activity buildings, community facilities and other facilities. This must be followed up. Today and in the past, we have heard a lot of praiseworthy and important words about the importance of culture for social development, well-being, the faith of the future and the identity of each community. The centre part is particularly concerned about this. Culture is largely based on volunteering, and so we want it to still be. It was said earlier in the debate that it is largely just the money that makes up the difference between the different budget proposals that are being presented here today. I'm actually surprised that it's more than the Progress Party that thinks it's possible to further develop culture pretty much in words. In fact, I would argue that the different resources that the parties prioritise for culture make a significant difference. I also noticed that the Council of State in its reply to me in the change of lines did not want to tell how she assesses the priority of culture up against tax laws for us who earn well, and who can use the reliefs for increased private luxury consumption, but that she wanted to talk first and foremost about the relief to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1203	I take the floor first of all for a three-minute post to draw attention to a note on page 96 in the vote that I believe is more in the committee than I agree to has an unfortunate design. We have been made aware of this in retrospect. It's probably just saying that here a whole committee has actually passed on some fresh, journalistic, pointed-words from the Cultural Council's report on folk music and folk dance, and took this out of context. Then it often gets a little crooked and wrong and certainly not adequate for the actual conditions. I just wanted to draw attention to this, and I think I also want to draw attention to the positive, that we want to make the field of folk music and folk dance more visible in the cultural policy priorities ahead. That's what we've been saying. I think it is important to stress that this should be a topic in the context of the Culture Communication when it comes. The Council of Folk Music and Folk Dance is a very central meeting point for everyone in this field, as well as an important documentation and dissemination point for what is happening in this important field. With that background, I'm just looking forward to a discussion and treatment of this in the context of the cultural message. So, since I have some more time, some remarks to the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, who again made a visit to the undersigned in an article about the post various publications. I believe that I said quite clearly what my position on this particular matter is. It is not at all a matter of treating the Christian newspapers worse than the Blink magazine. Now it is the case that we from the Christian People's Party were present and were placed these magazines to which they are addressed, on the state budget last year. It was not with the support of the Progress Party, but with the support of the Labour Party. They've been in a sum, as Blick and all the other publications have done, and they're in the same amount. In addition, we also got the victory of the Cross now. Now the matter is settled, the Progress Party did not propose to increase on any of these in the negotiations with us, they come back and believe that this would be carried out immediately. We have never known that to be the premise, it is contrary to common practice, and I regret this inexorable procedure by the representative Knudsen now. This is with the Government. It's the administration's responsibility when the Stortinget has spoken in the comments we're together about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1210	The President will stress that time is not what we have so much of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1213	We've got our measured time, haven't we? I'd like to say a little bit more about the cultural schooling. The Committee points out that the gambling funds should not be allocated to general or direct operating grants to different institutions. I see this as a clear emphasis on the fact that these funds should not be cancelled or superseded by ordinary administrative and general operating rights. It's okay, but I'm assuming that these formulations don't stand in the way of extravagant additions to projects that are entirely within the objectives of the cultural school, even if the recipient of such a defined addition is a cultural institution. I've also noticed May Hansen's wish that Dissimilis should be involved in the further work, and that signal I take with me, it's also such a cultural institution. Otherwise, there are some comments from other representatives. I'm excited about the future of Divisional Music in Halden, and I'm excited about what the Workers' Party in Halden is doing in relation to the municipal vows. I hope that the Workers' Party will go in so that Halden's municipality will also give its surface, and that it can thus proceed as a civil corps. When it comes to non-discrimination vis-à-vis the Nordic countries, I have both answered questions from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I have drawn it up with the NRC, and I have said that this decision from the Storting must be implemented. I have not conducted the NRK with regard to when to do this, but the NRK has been clearly informed, as previously notified by the NRC in relation to the decision taken by the Control and Constitutional Committee. This is one of the reasons why our fraction is not included in this setting. This is something that we've actually done, and it's not usually that they who are in position make comments about things that are already done, and that one is also behind. So there were questions about tax relief against culture. Then I have to admit that if we had given a lot of tax dollars to those who think a lot, I would have understood the question, but we actually don't. 320,000 kroner is probably a part of health care and schooling, and I didn't think it was very high incomes. We haven't prioritised this very high. The tax havens we've actually gone through have our business rights, and that's why I'm also referring to it in my answer in the line exchange. So I'd like to answer the challenge in relation to the post various publications. The party of progress makes this a matter between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in relation to Blick, Magazine, the Victory of the Cross and Norway in DAY. I understand why they do it. But if a government council is actually going to stand here and decide how much money is going to go out, depending on whether or not it likes the content of a newspaper, then there'll be a lot of times in this country. I have said that we should go through the support schemes, we should do it fairly, and we should introduce them from 1 January 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1228	Culture is not just important, it is a necessity. It creates creativity, commitment and participation. It simply creates our society. It gives us something to live off and live for. Just the glow I see in my daughter's eyes when she's been to theater dance, shows that this teaches her ways of expressing herself and giving her a thorough platform. Hålogaland theatre building has not found room for government parties and the Progress Party in its budget. I'm not just disappointed, but I'm pissed off. Thirty years of fighting, and North Norway is the only part of the country that doesn't have a theater building. Tromsø Municipality and Troms County Municipality have invested millions, and that's not because they have good advice, on the contrary, but it's because the Halogaland Theatre Building is a necessity for strengthening and continuing cultural life in North Norway. The plot is ready, the house is sketched, it's just putting the spade in the ground. And the spade should have been in the ground over ten years ago. But once again, the government parties and the Progress Party have failed. There has been a failure in Northern Norway's cultural life. It's not just customs when Hålogaland theater comes before Stortinget and actions for the importance of getting a new theater building for Hålogaland theater now. I expect the building start funds for the Hålogaland theatre to be in place in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1237	Some words about the cultural school bag. For us, there are two things that have been very important about it. One is that the cultural school bag should be used in such a way that it actually becomes a real cultural boost for children and young people throughout Norway, does not get smeared thinly and disappears in administration and in such small measures that there is ultimately nothing left. The second is that it was going to be in addition to the bets that were already in the state budget. And when it comes to not being smeared too thinly, we know that the vast majority of cultural institutions, at both national and local level, today have their mandate and as a prerequisite for their ordinary government appropriations and local appropriations that they do a job for children and young people. And I'm worried that the cultural school fees are going to simply disappear in a balance and go to cover the lack of operational appropriations to the ordinary institutions, that the Minister of Culture, because of lack of money in his ordinary budget, uses the cultural school bag to distribute mild gifts that cover institutional shortcomings. Then there'll be no more culture for the children, and that's the whole purpose of the cultural school bag. That's also why we've said so clearly what we're doing in the comments, and also in the Roman number decision that we're going to take here today. This has to be added. The second is that this should be in addition to the appropriations for the purposes now being used by the funds, cultural buildings and the Free Fund. It is broken by the decision taken here. I again want to discuss with the Progress Party how you can deal with that party when you break such a sunny agreement. In the agreement signed by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party, the quotation is not from the agreement, but from Innst.O. No 44 for 2001-2002: ‘The majority assumes that the allocation mechanism shall not be at the expense of corresponding appropriations in the State budget, but lead to a real increase for those purposes, at least equivalent to the increase in the input from the funds.’ And also in the proposal for a decision, B, it says: ‘This scheme shall not be at the expense of equivalent State budget appropriations.’;» Today, the Progress Party is voting in favour of a scheme of 34.2 million. kr cut in cultural buildings and 22,2 million. Freefonds, contrary to this Agreement. Per Sandberg, a representative who tends to participate in the cultural debates because he used to sit on the cultural committee, has stayed well away today. And I understand that, because it's Per Sandberg who signed this deal. Is it that you cannot rely on agreements concluded with the Progress Party? Carl I. Hagen even demanded that this money for seafarers be deposited before negotiating with the Advance Party, because there was a breach of the agreement with the Advance Party when it was for the seafarers. The nursery agreement was cleared in the conciliation. But the sailors and other important things have also gone ahead of keeping the agreement that applied to culture. I just have to say that you can't trust the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1261	First, I want to join the Ola T. Lånke said about the People's Music and Folk Dance Council. There we're going to share the guilt in the committee, here we haven't been up here, and we haven't done our job the way we should. We're going to fix that again. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, I agree with Giske. After our agreement was signed, the Progress Party has chosen to prioritise its own flags around Norway and spend money on them instead of fulfilling the agreement we had. We have not received any reason today for why this has happened. I also share Giske's concerns about the cultural school bag. But the signals are now so clear from what the setting says, that I don't think they should be to misunderstand. So a few words about movies. In Norway, we have a significant Norwegian film heritage to show the public, but we need to ensure that the treatment of these films is done in a proper way. Norwegian films of historical and cultural value are in the process of being permanently lost, because there are not enough means to preserve a sufficient number of meters of film per year. years. SV will contribute to the preservation of irreplaceable film taxes and cultural documentation for future generations by strengthening the funding of the restoration work of the Norwegian Film Institute. SV would like to support an active Norwegian film production, which should profile and convey Norwegian film expressions through long film, short film, animation or documentaries. It is necessary to facilitate an environment that can process and develop ideas that are not primarily based on purely market thinking in order to achieve public success, and we need to provide space for artistic development in film development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1274	Ulf Erik Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1277	I am a little annoyed by the representative Giske and the constant claim that the Progress Party is not to trust as a partner. This is actually a mistake, which I have pointed out a number of times earlier today. If you look at the main budget of the Progress Party, which is also referred to in the case, you will see that these amounts are shown by the representative of Gish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1283	Trond Giske has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1286	This must be completely misleading. That's not what the Progress Party writes in its alternative state budget or in the party programme or in its greetings in reading articles in newspapers, which means something, that's what they vote for here in the Chamber. And today they are voting in favour of a state budget that violates the agreement concluded with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. It is stated in the first line of the agreement: ‘These three lots undertake to follow up the positions set out in the following observations and proposals throughout the current ageing period:’;» It was not even a year for jam, so you voted in favour of a government budget with cuts in local cultural buildings, with cuts in Frifonds, in violation of the agreement. I note that Per Sandberg, who signed the agreement, stayed well away from the cultural debate. I might have expected that Carl. I. Hagen came and explained why the Progress Party is violating agreements with other parties, because he is the one who uses to be most agitated when, according to his statement, the government parties break the agreements concluded with the Advance Party. But it may be that agreements concluded with the Progress Party cannot be broken, but when the Progress Party concludes agreements with others, it is quite fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1298	No more have asked for the word to be used for area 3. We will move on to the debate on Framework Areas 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1303	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for constructive and good cooperation in getting the budgets into port. I would also like to pay tribute to the Progress Party for their contribution to the general government budget and to the trade union budgets in a difficult budgetary situation. As we know, we negotiated and agreed with the Progress Party in all three areas. The result shows that the Government has received broad support for the main lines and priorities. It has been very important for the Government to provide the best possible basis for a lower interest rate. Norway’s Bank’s decision to reduce the interest rate by 1⁄2 percentage points confirms that it has been right for the Government to maintain the tightness of the budget. A tight budget is a good social budget. A high interest rate out of control hits blindly and unsocially, and it hit hardest those who have the most difficult from before. I am very pleased that a large majority in the United Kingdom supports the Government's modernisation policy and the work of a simpler Norway. Modernisation and simplification will give more power and influence to the users. It is about improving the quality of public services for users and for business. And the principle of subsidiarity is a good principle. Decisions must be taken as close as possible to the users of public services. The government has a majority behind in the process of releasing public agencies and delegating responsibilities and resources to the lowest effective level. Together with performance management, competitive outsourcing and user choice, this will provide a better and more flexible, high-quality service provision and will also provide more well-being. A modern, well-run and unbureaucratic public sector should also be a competitive advantage for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs. It needs the country now. But the innovation on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is different. It is with great wonder that I see that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have come together to use yesterday's solutions to tomorrow's challenges. Even worse, when the same parties will combine old-fashioned solutions with powerful tax increases. This is immature, unwise and somewhat forward-looking and not particularly responsible. But fortunately for the country, it is the majority of another and more responsible and forward-looking policy. And it is important to use all of Norway. The government's plans for the relocation of state supervision from the capital area have our support. It will strengthen regional development, it will help to strengthen the labour market and the skills base elsewhere than in central Europe, and it will contribute to more balanced regional development across the country. As far as Framework Area 2 is concerned, there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that supports the Government’s efforts in the area of children and families. Child and family policies are a high priority area, and we have, for consideration in the Committee, a growing-up message on children and youth and one on child protection. In addition, the government has announced a family message in the New Year. Overall, these three issues will provide a great opportunity to go deeper into this whole area and provide a solid basis for good growth conditions for children and young people, a good family policy and good child protection. The family is the most important building block in society. A forward-looking family policy must therefore take into account all types of families and also take into account the situation of the single family. Freedom of choice for families with children is central to the Right and the majority. We respect that people are different, and therefore choose different solutions and different ways to organize everyday life. A prerequisite for increased freedom of choice and equal opportunities for young children’s parents is that each family has the option to choose a form of care that suits them best. Therefore, the provision of more and cheaper kindergartens and an increase in cash support are essential. Real freedom of choice means that parents must have something to choose from. But this freedom of choice will take away the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party from the young children's parents. The working party will do that by halving the cash support, and I know them correctly, they will probably remove it altogether. SV wants to wind up the whole scheme, and the Center Party will only support parents who are at home with their children, and not those who are at work. This isn't going to be a lot of freedom of choice. We are very pleased with the government's historic bet on kindergartens, and of course we support the intention of the kindergarten agreement between the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party. However, we are still sceptical about part of the content of the agreement. The Committee has also received relatively unambiguous feedback through consultations from those investigating the implementation of the ECHR that a very bureaucratic system is becoming difficult to implement in all areas. ‘An embarrassing retreat’ was the heading of the President of the Newspaper on 19 November 2002 on the withdrawal of the four parties in respect of the maximum tariff. I don't want to use such words, but actually credit the four batches so that they finally listened to those who are going to implement this in practice, by proposing to shift the introduction of the maximum price itself by five months. However, despite the doubts about this agreement, the Government will of course follow up the decisions of the majority of the population. The government had put in place a plan to escalate the transfers to the kindergartens anyway. Many of the details of the implementation will be returned by the Government in March, as envisaged by the majority of the population. But I guess the majority would like to be presented with a matter that has been reworked and quality assured in the best possible way, and that it must be more important than the actual time. The government has clear ambitions for a new consumer policy. In particular, I would like to highlight the efforts to combat the commercial impact of children. This is an area of consumer policy that has been ignored for too long. In general, the Right is for advertising, market power and competition. However, childhood should be protected from some of the outcomes of this development. Childhood is not for sale. I am therefore pleased that the Government will follow up the Nyborg Committee and come back with a review of the Marketing Act. In the context of the budget, an action plan and an evaluation of the gender perspective were presented in the sectoral budgets. This is a historical document. The former governments have just talked about, the Co-operation Government has set out. Equality between women and men shall be a priority area in all sectors. The aim of integrating the gender perspective into the budgets is to make the inequality between women and men more visible and to target measures to correct this bias. A separate action plan will make the need visible, and this will lead to a conscious view of the issues. And this is just the beginning of a long-term work to achieve the goals of full equality. But I'm impatient. Eight of the departments are included in the action plan. At the next budget, I expect all the departments to be involved in this work. The ambitions cannot be less than that. Finally, I would like to mention an area that upsets me and the rest of the committee. The Internet is an invaluable tool and, of course, is primarily positive. But the possibilities offered by the Internet for copying and distributing child pornography material are frightening, and their scope is shocking. I'm upset by how cynical adults use children, including their own, to gain their own satisfaction or economic gain. There is no doubt that both the production and distribution of child pornography is taking place in Norway. I was in the fall at Kripos to look through part of the material that was produced. The transparency of this — sexual abuse against children down into lead age — was a shocking, indeed a truly shocking experience. It's assault of the worst kind, really gross assault. I don't think most of us have the imagination to get into what this really is about. We know that the police across the country are making a huge effort to reveal the worst. In addition, Redd Barna is making a great effort in the field of awareness-raising and prevention. They actively contribute to the detection of some of these infringements, and they have good contact with the police. Therefore, a joint committee wants to support the work done by the Red Children. I know that this is a topic that we will have to come back to in connection with the big news about the growing-up conditions of children and young people that we are going to deal with after New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1345	It's getting closer to Christmas, and as always here in Stortinget, it's talking about billions and millions, budget balance and accountability. But isn't it also a time for reflection, time to think about how we spend all the money? Who do we make budgets for? And how do we distribute the huge sums that are swirling around in all the comiter areas? The Labour Party is committed to facilitating a child and family policy that takes into account the life patterns and realities of children and young people and parents. We can probably dream of a world with "Eight hands hooked together to a ring about big and small.Oh, my God, if the whole world had it so well." – as Einar Schreissen wrote in the poem “Luck”. But that's not the way the world is. We read about child abuse, about domestic violence and about children who cannot go to a birthday party because they do not have money for a gift. For many of these children, the nursery or school leave scheme is a good offer where the employees represent the safety they do not have at home. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that children need safe and good babysitting. It also needs parents who want to combine good care for their children with working life. The maximum price in kindergarten shall ensure that it is not the family’s economy to determine whether a child can go to kindergarten or not. Full child care coverage and low prices are a prerequisite for the freedom of choice of families with children. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party found room for reintroducing the child supplement into the child's back. For parents receiving cash support receive the early childhood allowance fully compensated by a corresponding increase in cash support. On the other hand, parents who have nursery facilities for their child do not. Over the course of a year, many users are in the crisis centre in Hamar. About half are children who have experienced a lot of pain, both physically and mentally. Not all children themselves have been subjected to direct violence, but when they experience seeing the caregivers in whom they are happy, having it hurt, it can be as difficult. The Labour Party is concerned that the difficult economic situation of many municipalities will lead to the closure of some crisis centres. This must not happen, and together with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the Labour Party has increased the allocation of the crisis centres. Experience shows that children who witness domestic violence develop insecurity, anxiety, depression and aggression. Many have to take care of child protection. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, found it possible to propose a strengthening of child protection and prevention measures for children and young people. Unfortunately, the Progress Party did not prioritise this, despite the fact that they now had the chance to help the most vulnerable in our society, namely the children. If we're going to fight crime, we have to take it before it happens, and not just be strict when the damage is done. The protection of children shall ensure that vulnerable children enjoy good growth conditions. In this respect, I would like to stress the need to strengthen the competence of all those who are going to work with children. They do a fantastic job and deserve a higher status in the municipalities. Children’s protection workers should be given more preventive work tasks to assist children and parents. It is important that multi-disciplinary cooperation is required in municipalities and counties, for the benefit of the children to be assisted. Unfortunately, many people believe that child protection is a kind of police force. It's not. Child protection shall be a support and assistance. There is a large increase in the number of cases of child protection services in municipalities. But the majority in this room did not want to give more money to municipalities in order to give municipalities a better opportunity to hire more people in child protection so that treatment time can be reduced and children in a difficult situation get even better and faster help. When we know that some reports of care failure have not been checked after 100 days in some municipalities, there is only one word that covers this: Shame! Unfortunately, welfare services in the municipalities have to be cut down because, among other things, the majority of people have to pay for them. prioritizes cheaper spirits. The working party wanted to use part of the cash support to counteract these cuts and strengthen the welfare offers for children and young people. I would like to point out that there is room for a modest increase in the adoption support from the Government, but the Workers' Party will increase the adoption support to 1 G. It is because the real cost of caring for an orphan is much greater than the adoption aid provided today. I actually thought the Progress Party, which has gone so high and has promised to increase adoption support, had supported this proposal, but they are also failing here. The Labour Party believes that one of the most important measures that politicians can take to combat poverty is that parents are secure work. Unfortunately, we now see that unemployment is increasing. Losing your job does something to people. It hits the whole family financially, of course, the mother and father, and it hits the last, but not least the children. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen Aetat and increase labour market measures. The Bondevik government is so hot and often talking about values and about an action plan against poverty. But the government parties have cut off the social benefits of child custody for lonely dependants. Children of lone dependants have become the Government's balancing item, and have to pay the price of cheaper spirits and larger tax credits. We are approaching a celebration that most of us are looking forward to, but for too many, Christmas is particularly difficult, for everyone who strives daily to make the ends meet, and for the children. Perhaps as politicians we should think more about those of us who don't have it so well in everyday life, and who can only dream of that «well was a house with four walls, and the bliss was a bessmorfang».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1397	I do not know how many times we have heard workers' party politicians talk about a little lower alcohol duty and a little lower caravan charge during the day. If that's the only problem with the budget this year, it's not a lot of problems, given! Enough about that. The party of progress looked forward with great anticipation to the work in Stortinget when we got a new government with the government council Victor D. Norman in the management of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. We had noticed that for years the Council of State had had a clear and marked profile of reducing public bureaucracy, efficiency and rationalisation. This is where it was to be modernised and transformed – we thought. But it's gone with the expectations. It appears that the Council of State has neither the ability nor the will to make the necessary changes in Norway. If we compare with other countries, it is beyond doubt that Norway has a growth in the public sector that is completely out of control. Over some years, the number of new jobs in the public sector is above 30 per cent. day, every day throughout the year. Both in Sweden and Denmark, this development has been stagnated, without these countries being accused of ravaging their welfare systems. In Norway, however, the arrow points only one way up. Looking back to the previous budgetary procedure, we had clear hopes that concrete projects with more efficiency and competitive outsourcing would be launched in the first half of 2002. It was with party speeches, fine words and little action – ‘a cough in the praise’ we call it at home! If the Council of State had gone into action in this area and shown the way, we might have had a situation where the crisis in Kommune-Norway had not been so great. If there had been a grip on where both state, state and municipalities were required to use e.g. competitive outsourcing, many municipalities would have saved large amounts. There can be no doubt that Norway is completely at the top of the world in terms of the number of public employees and administration. This shows, among other things: a report drawn up by State Consultant last year. When we see this in connection with the fact that government parties and industry point out that in the future we have too few people to fill jobs and have to have labour immigration, I understand very little. If you streamline, for example. 10 pst. in the public domain, the problem would have been solved. Only in one area does Norman seem to be able to act. It is when state establishments and supervision are to be moved out of Oslo. A move is no efficiency – it can be the opposite. For example: the transfer of competition supervision may lead to the loss of a large proportion of the competence and, in addition, greater distance from those to be controlled. There can hardly be any doubt that large concentrations of ownership and management in terms of business and finance are concentrated in Oslo. Another example of a little thoughtful move proposal is the transfer of the Air Safety Authority to Bodø. I can also mention the move of the Film Authority, which in trade unions has raised enormous protests. First of all, the Progress Party has a draft budget within the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which significantly cuts and streamlines. However, we have to bear in mind that the Cooperative Government seems to be impotent in this area. One is simply not able to implement. However, as I pointed out in previous speeches today, we have reached budgetary agreements with the Government that are to live with. We have therefore decided that we can vote with the Government within the three frameworks we are going to deal with today. This is a form of subsidiary support, and it comes on the basis that the Government has given room for some of the heart issues of the Advance Party, as I pointed out in my previous post. But there must be no doubt about what is our primary point of view: we want to cut the appropriations for the government administration and make clear demands for efficiency, conversion and outsourcing. A few words about areas within the Ministry of Children and Family that occupy me a lot, about the government appropriations for equal opportunities and the organisations of the gays. The Progress Party believes that it is wrong to establish and operate selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adult people only on the basis of their gender or sexual orientation. We believe that women and men, whether heterophilic or homosexual, know their own needs and rights, and believe that they themselves can take care of them in relation to any discrimination that may take place. We actually think that making such special measures is to devalue the individual in relation to their sex and their sexual orientation. My colleague, Jan Koløy, will elaborate on some of the other positions of the Progress Party in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. I just want to point out that in the previous debate we have raised the proposals that are available throughout the vote, as the President instructed us to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1427	The welfare community is under pressure, and SV wants a society that takes care of everyone, a society that gives freedom, security and benefits to everyone, adapted to the individual. We want a vital public sector that provides the best possible well-being and security for its citizens. The government’s modernisation society emphasises greater efficiency and the instrument is the outsourcing and privatisation of core areas. Bad municipal economy over several years has led to reduced operation and continuous conversion in several municipalities. The municipalities have also had a lower economy, while the tasks have increased. We've had six-year-olds in school, we have an older wave, we've increased the number of drug users and psychiatric patients, and it treats more patients than before. Major reforms have been carried out, but many of them have not been adequately followed up by funds. Effectiveness and conversion in the public sector are now reported by psychologists and doctors. In the public sector, an employer's policy must be pursued where recruitment, equal pay, working time, career opportunities and opportunities to develop skills are key elements. This is absolutely necessary to recruit hands to our welfare state. The government's competition and privatisation policy has followed me closely as a local politician in the municipality of Moss. After seven and a half years with this recipe, we now have a balancing need of 110 million. kr. We deliver fewer services at a higher price, and we have double administrations to uphold the principle of competition. SV wants to start projects with six-hour day, increased basic staff and improved pay conditions for the low-paid. The goal is both to reduce sick leave and more time for children without being excluded from career opportunities. Let's add 100 million. kr in our alternative budget for «Project Women's Life». SV will pursue a family policy that facilitates good care for children, while giving parents equal opportunities to combine the parent role and work. For several years, families with children have been deprived of an annual price adjustment in the area of family allowances. In the Action Plan against Poverty, the Government points out that child welfare is an important source of income for the low income groups. It is unfair, and it is hardest for the poorest, when the 2003 government proposes to remove the baby supplement. Parents receiving cash support for their child will be fully compensated for the loss of the early childhood allowance by a corresponding increase in cash support. In this proposal, the government funds reduced parental payments in the kindergarten even if they are not guaranteed a reduced kindergarten price from 1 August. How can the Government defend their prioritisation of the parents who opt for cash support? This is done despite the fact that the intention of the cash support has not been achieved. Cash support has led to a negative trend in equality between women and men, the participation of young children’s parents in work and the use of kindergartens. Cash support has also led to more part-time work for low-paid women. This is an undesirable development that enumerates women who were low-paid with poor employment relations and poorer chances of earning equivalent pensions than men. SV liquidates the cash support in its budget. We price the child's pension, reintroduce the child's allowance and believe that the maximum price in kindergarten, the statutory entitlement to kindergarten, the improvement of the economy of young children's parents and the six-hour trial give both mother and father greater freedom of choice and more time with children. This is much more targeted economic help for the families of young children than tax reliefs that make arbitrarily. There is an incomprehensible principle behind the cash support, I think. You compensate for not using a well-being, which here is kindergarten. If the same principle was to be applied in the care of the elderly, all in one age group who did not use nursing homes would receive equivalent amounts of old-age cash support to be at home and choose their care. In the liquidation of the cash support in our budget, we release almost DKK 3 billion spent on preventive child and youth work, research on children and young people, strengthening child protection, gender equality work, strengthening crisis centres and strengthening family policy. SV believes that it is fundamentally right that a welfare offer as a nursery place should be available to all children, regardless of the financial status of their parents. Kindergartens provide children with a good educational, social and safe offer to strengthen the children’s lifelong learning process. Kindergartens shall have qualified staff, follow the nursery law and the nursery framework to ensure a good offer to our children. We are very happy for the children's garden agreement between SV, the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party, which ensures a reduction in the nursery price at a maximum price of SEK 2 500 from 1 January 2004 and a maximum price of SEK 1500 from 1 January 2005 – and not least full coverage of kindergartens. It's hard to understand that the government is now going to slow down the trial of free short-term services in the kindergartens in the Old Oslo East. This scheme has been evaluated by NOVA and the Hedmark High School, and shows that the intention to increase the use of kindergarten among children with a minority background was well on the way. The children gained increased Norwegian knowledge, and the Norwegian course system in combination with the use of kindergarten reached mothers with a minority background. The continuation of this action was used in the budget of last year by the government parties as a major winner. What's changed this year? Now we also have an evaluation that shows that the intention has been achieved. SV also included this in its budget. The negative developments we have in childhood and youth settings are characterised by an increasing level of drug use, violence, girl violence and bullying. There is a record of an increasing proportion of children who are perpetrating violence, threats and abuse. The 2003 budget proposal does not take this seriously, and prevention efforts towards children and young people are being lowered. Child protection reports high wear, lack of resources and recruitment problems across the country. The county councils report that they do not have the resources to supervise municipal child protection and child protection institutions. It is serious when the public takes care of more and more children and does not follow up with resources for the control apparatus. SV strengthens child protection by 75 million. kr and increase the appropriations allocated to county councils by 30 million. to strengthen the supervisory function of the protection of children. SV also added 100 million. to strengthen different projects and prevention activities for children and young people. In its alternative budget, the Party of Workers, SV and the Centre have a different device for child and family policy than the Government. We use the cash support for various welfare measures for children and young people, such as kindergartens, school, SFO, the reintroduction of the childcare supplement, increased child protection, the development of several MST teams, culture, sport and leisure. The Parties agree on a number of increases in various measures within the budget of the Ministry of Children and the Family. The most important thing is that we establish our own item 60 under Chapter 857, Measures for children and young people in municipalities. This pot is to be distributed to municipalities according to the normal distribution key between municipalities. For SV's part, this pot is $1,673,526. There is a commitment to action for children and young people that you want to notice, and I am very happy that we are united on this. I address the proposals that we ourselves have made, and the proposals that we have made together with others. Then I'll explain a little bit about how we're going to vote on those two frames. We will vote in a subsidiary way for the Labour Party's budget proposal, if it goes so wrong that we fall. We are voting against Framework Area 1 because of the budget agreement, because we fear the consequences that the Post Office and the NSB are going to pay NOK 2 billion undercover to the State Pension Fund. We will also vote against II and III in Framework Area 2. In the Workers' Party's proposal No. 11 has the center part and SV has fallen out. It is a joint proposal. Then I think I've got everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1469	May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1472	For the Christian People's Party, family policy has always been central – family and care. The family is the child's starting point, and the effort to give our children the best possible start is the effort of the family. Investing in the growth of children is the most important thing we can do. It is with pleasure that I record that there have been and that more messages have been notified that just put children and young people's lives and their close relations on the agenda. The Committee is currently examining the notification of children and young people’s conditions of growth and the communication of child protection. The government has also announced a coming family message. All of these three messages help to describe the reality our children are growing up in, and we in the Big City are going to be involved in drawing up some lines that will affect what kind of start our inhabitants get. The responsibility of government and big business is great. I look forward to discussing and working forward to something that I hope will be good solutions for the people of the future. On Thursday, December 12th, we could read: ‘Hard to become a parent’. A study showed that there were many newly-baked parents, both fathers and mothers, who lost out on stress reactions after birth. We also know that it is a big and challenging task for most parents to raise their children. I therefore think it is a frightening development that the number of free maternity courses in charge of health stations has fallen, and that it is becoming more and more up to the individual to sign up for private courses offered. In measures such as maternity and parental guidance from the public, we have seen a tendency for the existing supply to target specific groups, for example: single mothers, minority parents and parents of children with special needs. The Christian People's Party also believes it is important that we target some schemes that meet those who have special needs, but the study that is referred to in the Newspaper yesterday shows us that it is very important that we also have some offers for parents most. I am therefore pleased with the willingness of the Government to invest in such areas. Pregnancies, parental guidance and cohabitation may be the modern way of replacing the large family. Grandmother's competence is no longer passed on to children and grandchildren in the conversations around the daily tasks, short and good because we no longer carry out the daily tasks together. I wish we didn't professionalize and specialize ourselves away from the thing and the good conversation that can put things in place and show parents a way forward. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party that we keep a broad range of offers. Child protection and youth protection are discussed in the Committee. Here, further perspectives are discussed in the field of child protection. Increased emphasis is placed on prevention assistance for children and families. The notification also mentions the continuing need to raise awareness of child protection in the elected bodies and the need to increase legitimacy in order for child protection to work for the benefit of children. The communication has also taken on board what the professional community now considers to be important, namely to strengthen the family and the community around these children and young people. The situation and role of parents, even after a possible takeover of care, are important for the child. I look forward to the further work on the communication here in Stortinget – protecting the weakest and caring for those who need it. The discussion on how to achieve our targets of greater coverage and getting reasonable kindergartens has marked this year. The Christian People's Party believes that when we're about to implement the greatest kindergarten reform of the time, it's important not to rush into something we don't know the consequences of. We listen to the parents out there, and I haven't met anyone yet who says it's okay to get such cheap kindergartens if it goes beyond quality. Therefore, we have initially wanted to give the implementation of such a major reform a little more time. We wanted to have more ground material than a Document No. Eight proposals on one and a half sides may contain. But the fact that the speedmates thus claim that this is us against, and since the president does not accept that we call things a lie, I would say that this is a claim that has been taken from nothing. However, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government has had some time to come back with a matter about the reform a little beyond the New Year. The government will create kindergartens for the good of children. The time since the government's launch of a law on gender representation in corporate governance has been exciting. I have had the opportunity to attend several seminars both in the public and private sectors that have put this theme on the agenda. There has been a very positive development with increased efforts and a good deal of attitude change, but it was with sadness that I received the message that the gender equality barometer for the private sector is pointing downwards. New law on quotas for business is not a goal for the Christian People's Party. Our goal is to get more women into the system, not to talk about upstairs. This also applies to senior management positions. It's amazing that we in Norway don't see any good use of our unused resources. We're talking about women giving huge visions, different thinking, etc. Yes, I think we do, but I also want to warn the men of business a little bit: some of us women who get into these boards, are going to be just as boring as some of the men sitting there. The variety is found in both women and men. Equality does not apply only at the workplace. It is important to increase the participation of men in the home. It was interesting to see that in marriage where you shared the maternity leave, it was 30 pst. less likely life ended in divorce. It is great to note that more and more of today’s fathers are prioritizing time with their children. The Christian People's Party believes this is so important that we have programmed that fathers' right to maternity leave should be increased by six weeks – to ten weeks. We have promised to promote this matter during the current growing-up period, and the Sem declaration follows it up. The fact that my dad takes his part in the leave is a sign of equality in the relationship, makes the researchers firm. So to the cash support. I cannot avoid commenting that once again, the cash support seals will remove – some whole and some parts of – this support. What would they do if they once got this done? Where would they get the money? There are many measures that will receive this money every year. And yet there are some people out there who believe in the politicians, and they must feel cheated, when the money from the cash support is promised to their cause for one year, but next year the Workers' Party and the Swedish Government have promised them for a completely different purpose. Expectations to be met will usually last longer than one year. Policies are priorities. Sacrificing the cash support, which so many enjoy, and which has given to young children's parents an opportunity for freedom of choice and flexibility, is a priority Christian People's Party will not participate. The government has put modernisation and efficiency on the agenda. I see with pleasure that we finally have a government that sees that there are competences also outside the central eastern region. I record that a rather central employee party representative, Nybakk, was quickly out there and opposed this. Is this the Labour Party's policy? – At least in practice, because we have not seen that it has been taken similar grip from that edge. And I have to say that the reaction of some Oslo citizens was sound. I have to remind you that it was between 40 and 50 supervision that was assessed, and the government moves eight. The best signal that the government is doing its administration well is that we don't have any major conflicts or issues that need to be discussed here today. I will end by saying that we are satisfied with the total amount of the budget that is being discussed and adopted today. The Christian People's Party thanks for all our care if we're okay. We can rest assured that we do. We have put forward a budget that is responsible and that has been reduced in interest rates. The Christian People's Party will bet on family and care. We want a forward-looking equality policy. But above all, it is the care of the weakest we will care for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1502	It is true that the President does not accept some expressions and forms. But the President also reacts to certain roundabouts around these concepts, and tries to hide them through fixed formulations. The president thinks Eriksen was very close to it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1505	It is a major challenge to say something about the priorities of the Central Party within two budgetary frameworks in five minutes. As regards the framework area 1, the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget, it is important for the Centre to point out that a good, efficient and user-oriented public sector is a necessary prerequisite for positive social development. Individuals shall be met with respect in their meeting with the public, whether administrative or service. We distance ourselves from a way of thinking that one-sidedly prioritises efficiency and economic values, and where the inhabitants are only considered as consumers. There is an incredible amount of good work being done in the public sector today, and with our administrative traditions, our financial autonomy, and not least all the competent employees in the state and municipality, we in our country have all the prerequisites for continuing this good work. Of course, there is also a potential for improvement, but this is hampered today by the fact that the public sector is not allocated resources in relation to statutory tasks. The centre party does not condemn all forms of competitive outsourcing, but strongly warns against introducing it primarily on an ideological basis without necessary preliminary investigations. Experience shows that it can be unlucky and give rise to unintended consequences. The Central Party is deeply concerned about the Government's estimate that in 2003 we will reach 100,000 unemployed. It is necessary to develop a comprehensive policy in which a sound income policy, a fair distribution policy and an active labour market policy are the main elements. The Central Party has noted that the Government has proposed a significant reduction in the appropriations for the continuation and design of construction projects. Several of these projects have previously been earmarked for 2003 and, in order to meet some of these needs, the Centre proposes to increase the funding for State Building by 30 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The centre lot records that the loss of cargo subsidies for fruit and vegetables in North Norway has resulted in more expensive and less accessible goods. Therefore, we propose to reintroduce the scheme by granting $5 million. until 2003. Then I will focus on the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family. Ensuring good growth conditions for all children and young people is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, one of the most important tasks facing society. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the provision of safety and care to all, so that they can evolve in line with their own assumptions and interests. Open and inclusive communities are the best setting around a good growing-up environment, be it in the city or in the countryside. The Centre Party has a completely different device of child and family policy from the Government, and has therefore joined forces with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party to draw up a common alternative budget proposal that improves the family's economy and strengthens welfare measures for children and young people. The Cash Support Scheme has often been debated in this Chamber. The main objective of this scheme was to give parents more time with their children. Therefore, the Centre Party will maintain the scheme as an option for parents of children between one and three years of age. But we want a more targeted arrangement than today, and will only pay cash support to the parents who choose to be at home with the children. Such a change in the cash support scheme frees resources that can be used for kindergartens, schools, SFOs, child protection, culture, sport and leisure through a new post for childcare and youth activities in municipalities. Another issue that has also received a lot of attention both here in the main hall and in the media is the nursery agreement. Of course, the centre party follows this up in its alternative budget and strengthens the budget line by 287 million. kr in relation to the original government budget. The centre party will also stress that such a large-scale effort in the kindergarten sector as has been decided by the Storting must also benefit disabled and chronically ill children. This is why we ask the Government to give priority to raising the skills of kindergarten staff in the case of disabled people. Of course, just as the follow-up to the kindergarten agreement, it's for us to go on with the baby supplement. It's going to be wrong when the government says that the grandchildren are going to pay for the nursery arrangement through a reduction in child welfare. In view of the decision taken by the majority of the population on the distribution of funds and the desire for a better economy in local teams and associations, the Central Party strengthens this item by 10 million. kr. The minority believes it is critical that the government does not follow up the leaders of the Storting in this matter. The funding of crisis centres was discussed here in the main hall as late as December 3rd this year. In order to follow up the unanimous decision of the Storting to ask the Government to look at immediate measures in view of the difficult economic situation in the crisis centres, we find it necessary to increase this item by 37 million. kr. The centre party will also take this opportunity to recall the importance of the work carried out by the Consumer Council. In order to ensure the maintenance of the activities of the Consumer Council with the assistance of individuals and the further development of the service to consumers and to enable the current structure of offices in all counties to be maintained, the minority proposes to increase the allocation by 10 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. I have previously promoted our proposal under Framework Box 2 and will draw attention to the fact that the Centre Party will subsidize the Workers' Party's approach to this framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1542	In recent years, changing governments have focused on the need for transformations and changes in the public sector. All agree that the public sector is important for the welfare and development of individuals, but also for the development of both employment and business. With ever-increasing challenges and needs, it is important that the public sector evolves in line with the rest of society. It is therefore important to have a critical searchlight on public enterprises at all times, so that these serve the needs of the population for better and more individual solutions. I believe that this must be a political task for all the parties. The Workers' Party shall refrain from the Government's manufacture of the excellence of competition in the performance of public service production. The reality is that these services are most often not suitable for competition, and therefore it is so important that these services are provided by the public sector. There can then be no objective to ensure that competition concerns are taken into account in all policy areas. Where will Community solutions be, on the basis of which this strong country has been founded? I believe that our Community solutions are one of the reasons why we are one of the world's best countries to live in. For the Workers' Party, there is no question of a policy in which efficiency and economic values take over the governance of society and where citizens are only considered as consumers. We will always work towards a market-driven and commercial development of public services. There must then be opportunities to look at other instruments in order to provide better services. The Workers' Party is also concerned with the people who are to provide these services, and we are concerned about how we can enable employees and businesses to meet new challenges in a way that does not create insecurity and distrust between businesses and employees. There must be room for dialogue between employees and the business on appropriate solutions so that changes and structural changes can take place without employees necessarily leaving the workplace with only one final package in their pocket. We do not agree with the government parties and the Progress Party that final packages instead of waiting pay should be the general rule. We will maintain today's waiting pay system with a limited waiting pay period. I myself have worked in the post office for approx. 35 years. I've been through all the reorganisations within this company. I do not want to say that this has created confidence outside of the Post as a service provider, and I do not want to say that this has been painless for the employees. Many of my colleagues, especially at my age, are now on waiting pay. Had it not been for the safety of the waiting pay system, more families had had major problems, they believe. Before summer comes, we'll probably be in an unemployment rate of about 100,000 here in the country. Does the Council of State think it is so easy for my colleagues and everyone else to get a new job as soon as possible, when you only have a one-sided education or maybe little and no education? An end package ends, and what rights are included in this package? Perhaps you are left empty-handed, without the protection of dismissal and without proper pension schemes. I warn against using final packages as a means of pressing for rapid conversions to get rid of unwanted employees. The working party does not reject final packages as an instrument in exceptional cases, but this must be agreed by the employees’ organisations. Nor can I see that the proposal by the Council of State Victor D. Norman to extend the overtime system by 200 hours is for the benefit of working life at a time of high unemployment. This will mean that someone will work very much at the request of the employer, while others will not enter the labour market. This will affect as much younger well-trained jobseekers as it will affect older people without special education. Today, we have a contractual pension scheme that applies to many employees from the age of 62, for those who would like to use this scheme. This pension scheme contributes to bringing a decent end to a long working life. Many of these started working already in the teens and have gone into hard work, preferably with a shift system that also includes night work, but it is also those who feel that technological development is going so fast that they have problems to keep up with, and thus feel that they are not mastering the job compared to younger colleagues. We in the Workers' Party believe that the AFP scheme should provide people with the opportunity to quit the job in a dignified way, but at the same time it must provide opportunities to remain active on different teams, where part of the activity is also paid without any deduction from the pension payment. At the start of the AFP scheme, 1G could be earned without deduction from the pension. The Bondevik I government reduced this sum to NOK 4000. Today we have a limit of NOK 15 000, which the Workers' Party got through in the budget work last year, but the Workers' Party believes it must be allowed to earn at least 1 G, which is today approx. NOK 54 000. This will be more in line with what other pensioners can earn without shortening the pension. It's always worth working. But after maybe 45 years of working life, there needs to be some flexible solutions that allow people to end their working life in a dignified way. Then I'm going to go to something completely different, state building. In last year's budgetary work, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party joined forces on a note saying that the Government is empowered to dispose of government properties at a price lower than the market price for which special consideration is given. In addition, in the 2003 budget, the Council of State states that the Government has committed itself to selling properties under the administration of State Building where there are no government users or where future operations are expected to be reduced. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party then believe that State Building, from the above, can transfer the Red Building in Trondheim to a foundation chosen these days. The red building will serve as a national deaf museum in the future. I hope that the Council of State will note this and will be able to follow it up. State buildings have suffered significant cuts in the 2003 budget. This has consequences for many colleges and universities with high construction needs. Only the University of Eastfold passed through the narrow loop when the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party was a fact. Then the universities of Stavanger and Nesna remain. We record that the partners did not keep what they promised before either. In Bodø construction is under way, and if the two-stage construction project is not completed continuously, this will cost the State up to 70 million. NOK in additional expenditure. Could this government not plan to spend this money in a much better way? Finally, I would like to mention the planned Northern Norse White Centre. I hope the Council of State will take a good look at what this can mean for North Norway, and also for the whole country. We most need greater recruitment for real-time studies in this country. It's not least this government has been talking hot about it. Then this center needs a place to be, and then the North Light Planetary is well suited. I hope the Council of State will look kindly at this and hand over the North Light Planetary free of charge to the University of Tromsø, so that we can realize this education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1570	Right will put the children in the center of family policy. In the family, the basis for children’s safety and personality development is laid. It is the parents who are responsible for their children. Society shall assist parents. In cases where the home does not have the power to carry out its care tasks, society has a special obligation to organise schemes that ensure that all children receive good care and growth conditions. Here, it is important to think comprehensively and make sure arrangements. In order to increase freedom of choice for families with young children, it is important to have at least two thoughts in your head at once. We will therefore ensure freedom of choice through cash support and the development of more and more reasonable kindergartens. Taxes and taxes must be reduced so that families retain more of their own income. At the same time, we must have public, voluntary and private services that are tailored to the needs of modern people and that can give families security and freedom of choice. Kindergarten transfers are increased in this budget by historic DKK 2 billion. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget on kindergarten space for everyone who wants it, equal treatment of municipal and private kindergartens and gradually lower parental pay. The investment we now have is the largest investment in kindergartens that has been promoted in any Norwegian state budget. The State contribution is increased to facilitate an average parental payment of approximately NOK 2 500 per year. the month of a full-time slot. In addition, it will facilitate the creation of 12,000 new kindergartens next year, including: by continuing the incentive subsidy. We believe it is right for the Government to launch a comprehensive investigation into the consequences of introducing the maximum price, and that it will come back to this in the revised national budget. The signals from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager and from other actors in the kindergarten sector are that the introduction of the maximum price could have adverse consequences both for kindergarten development and for the development of costs in the sector. That's why we think it's important to get this impact assessment first. The majority of the population decided in our very ambitious kindergarten plans, but did not agree on the funding. We are pleased that, through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, we have now secured funding for more realistic kindergartens. But even though it is good to see that the opposition has now made a right in relation to some of its children's haillifts, we must note that the infant supplement in the child's back to next year is being removed to cover parts of the bet. The funds from the small children’s supplement will mainly be used for the financing of kindergartens, and in particular small children’s playgrounds, which are twice as expensive as space for the oldest kindergartens, and for increased cash support. This is to ensure that those who choose care solutions other than kindergartens come out just as well. The money goes with this to the same target group that received these funds before the conversion. That's why we're simply dealing with a simplification of the transfers to the families of children, and not just with unsocial cuts, as some parties have claimed. At the same time, it is important to clarify that lone dependants will continue to keep the extra baby supplement they have today. The freedom of choice of each family is central to us. Therefore, the cash support is retained and increased corresponding to the reduction in the infant supplement, i.e.: from NOK 3000 to NOK 3657 per month from 1 August 2003. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left, on the other hand, will take away people's freedom of choice by cutting in this area. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget proposal, it was proposed to cut the appropriations for cash support by NOK 1.5 billion. This would have affected about 90,000 parents. It's worth noting that beyond 82 pst. of the country's 1-year-olds and approx. 73 pst. all two-year-olds received cash support during the first half of this year. In total, it's about 77 pst. by children aged between 1 and 3 here in the country participating in the cash support scheme. With this we can see that it is still an important and popular system. Unfortunately, this won't take the parts on the left-hand side inwards. If the Workers' Party had received what they wanted, the cash support had been halved to cover the party's proposal for increased child care bet. We don't think that's a good idea. We believe that politicians' task is not to force children's families into A4 solutions, but to give them the opportunity to arrange everyday life in the way that best suits families. For us, cash support is also an important step towards a society that puts parents and children in the centre, where parents make choices, and where they can tailor from their everyday life and life situation the measures that best suit them. In the case of the test project in the inner east of Oslo on the free short-term kindergarten for all 4- and 5-year-olds in Old Oslo, which was also the subject of the SV representative, it is such that the country is completing the project after the summer of 2003. Initially, this project should have been completed after the summer of 2002, as proposed by the Labour Party Government in its time, but we wanted to extend it until the project was fully evaluated, as it is now. The current evaluation report shows very positive results and that there has been a very good offer to special children with a minority background in order to improve integration, language training and to increase the participation of these children in kindergartens. In the right, there is now a need to see the project in a wider context. We therefore want the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, possibly with other municipalities with a high proportion of minority-speaking children, to arrive at a model or action that continues to ensure greater integration of minority-speaking children into kindergarten. And we are pleased that the Government has signalled that they aim to make concrete proposals for action in the 2004 State budget. As you know, the Government is also working on the conversion of support schemes to voluntary organisations for children and young people. It must be said here that despite the fact that these organisations received what they had asked for, namely a simpler regulation to deal with, less bureaucracy and fewer forms, there was initially some noise around the proposed changes. First of all, let me say that no one is going to get worse in 2003, as the Council of State has clarified. There has also become a lot more calm about this matter now. Although we all agree that it is important to support voluntary child and youth work, I think it is important that we remember that this matter is not just about simplification. This matter is also about releasing the organisations, and showing trust in the organisations. It is primarily through less state governance that we show confidence in the organisations and the diversity of goals and forms of work they represent. We are very pleased that the total appropriations allocated to voluntary organisations are increasing, and that the Government is emphasising the modernisation and simplification of legislation for non-governmental organisations. In this way both public and organisations will release more resources, and this will also give each organisation greater self-determination and freedom in their own work. However, we record that the parties on the left do not want to give organisations this trust and freedom. We think that's remarkable. In conclusion, I just want to say that the total budget for 2003 is a tight but quite good budget, and not least confirms the decision of the Norwegian Bank to reduce the interest rate by 0.5 pst. that it has been important for us to ensure a responsible and tight budget. For high-loan families, this is a good news, because this in practice means a little more liberal economy for these families in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1600	The family is a very important base in our society. It is this one who is going to take care of and give children and young people safe growing conditions. In order for the family to function well, and for us to take care of the family as an institution, it is important that the conditions around the family are well arranged by the state. Family and home are the pillars and building blocks of society. It is therefore important that parents be able to choose freely what kind of supervision they want for their children, whether they want to have them in kindergarten, or whether they choose to compensate by the means they receive from the country, so that they themselves can spend more time with their children. Society is constantly evolving, and so is the family. More and more of the parents are breaking up, and more and more of the children are growing up in one of the parents. Just because children experience inconsistency through a loss of one parent’s presence, it is very important that parents receive skillful help in dealing with such crises in their children. The Progress Party wants to increase the competence of the Family Advisory Offices, so that they are better able to deal with the large and conflict-affected situations, and to give children the right and opportunity to spend the same amount of time with both their parents, even after a divorce. It is very gratifying to now include the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in our laws. This will also give children greater legal protection. I talked a little earlier about the parents' freedom of choice. That is why the Progress Party also wants to introduce cash support for another year. Unfortunately, it's not the majority, but we're of the opinion that this would give parents the opportunity to spend important time with their children. Societals continue to persist, and we see the rise of blind violence, of bullying and of outreach. Therefore, it is important that parents have time for their children, but not least that they actually have a responsibility for them. The progress party looks forward to the family announcement, coming to spring. But we believe that at least we have helped to make everyday life easier for families with children, and that, in the first round of the kindergarten agreement, we can finally see that politicians can actually also show the power of action and implement matters they promise. But not all children receive the needed care and supervision they need. The party of progress is nevertheless of the opinion that children and young people basically have the best in their own close family. Where parents do not do this task, other close family should be a natural alternative and first choice. That is why there is some skepticism in the budget. The party does not want this kind of special court that does not give all parties equal rights to appeal, and will claim that the care cases should probably be in the ordinary court. It is important for the Progress Party that fewer children suffer, that as much help as possible and that they should receive the help they are entitled to in the home. We hear that child protection needs to be developed; that we need to improve our skills. For the Advancement Party, it is important that children receive help when they need it and that they do not end up as guinea pigs in tested child protection educators. Our community is no longer as it was in good old days. Not that I think it was simpler at those times, but fortunately, the offer to families in crisis is greater today. It is important to take care of the services offered to vulnerable groups in society. The fact that crisis centres around municipalities are such interventions is not a topic of discussion. It is therefore important to take care of these measures. They take care of women and children in crisis and do an incredible job, much out of pure idealism. The progress team has registered that 10 million have been moved. kr from Frifond for distribution by the Ministry. We expect the Ministry to also allocate these funds to voluntary teams and organisations. Otherwise, what is said in the Sem Declaration is very little credible about strengthening voluntary teams and organisations. The Child Protection Communication is to be addressed in winter, the family message is to be given to spring, the childcare agreement is to be launched – a lot remains changing in this budget chapter. The Progress Party is looking forward to, and looking forward to, a proper review of these major and important fields of the year to come, and hopes that through these messages we can jointly contribute to creating a safer and better society for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1623	Yes, we have an exciting and offensive budget from the Ministry of Children and Family. The government will strengthen efforts for children and young people, and in the summer we presented the first comprehensive information on child and youth policy. The Communication sets out a broad range of efforts to improve the growth environment through interaction between public authorities and children, young people, parents and non-governmental organisations. Specific efforts aimed at young people both in districts and in larger urban communities continue in 2003. We propose to increase the allocation of youth actions in larger urban communities. The increase shall be used to help children and young people affected by poverty problems. I want to put special emphasis on targeted work to capture vulnerable children and young people. Facilitating the establishment of a well-functioning state child protection system will be particularly important in 2003. The government will stimulate the further development of child protection in a direction that places high emphasis on action in the community of children and young people in dialogue with children and families. The starting point for the work of child protection must always be the best of the child. I would therefore also like to work to improve the ability of child protection and the ability to put appropriate measures in place in cases of serious care failure or neglect, various types of abuse and behavioural problems among children and young people. The government is concerned with the importance of the family for individuals and society, with particular emphasis here also on the consideration of children. Based on the large number of broken lives and the number of children affected by the breakup of life, I see a clear need to strengthen the preventive family work. Both family protection, cohabitation and parental guidance are schemes that offer support in the role of life and care, and that in various ways strengthen the next year. The Consumer Council was given a new organisational form through changes in the Statute in 2002. These changes were prepared by the previous government, and I fully adhere to the new model, which is better adapted to the challenges facing the Consumer Council today. Being a consumer today offers many opportunities, but at the same time is challenging in relation to all the information and all the influences we are exposed to. Strengthening the information and legal assistance services provided by the Consumer Council is therefore important tasks. How can we offer the best possible range of services to as many consumers as possible? Finding an answer to this is the first major challenge for the newly appointed board. One example illustrates that a lot can be achieved by relatively simple means: in order to ensure equal access to individual guidance for all consumers, irrespective of where they live in the country, it will be important to establish a single-number telephone system for the whole country and a response service where case handlers throughout the organisation are connected. In this way, resources and competences can be better exploited, and the individual consumer does not, as they are today, become dependent on the capacity of the consumer office in the county from which they are called. Furthermore, I have expectations of a better use of the potential of the Internet for consumer information. Already now it is approx. 3,000 people per day on the Consumer Council's websites, and the number of visits is increasing. It has been notified to the Stortinget, both by the previous government and in the revised national budget earlier this year, that, as part of the development of the Consumer Council's organisation, and with the offer to the public in focus, it may be necessary to assess the number and size of consumer offices. I look forward to the Board of Directors early next year presenting a plan to further develop and modernise the Consumer Council's offer to the public. The size will be kept informed of the main lines of this work. In the 2003 budget proposal, the Government has already committed to the largest investment in kindergartens. We have three clear objectives for the sector: 1) full needs coverage, 2) lower parental pay and 3) financial equal treatment for all kindergartens. These objectives are the broad political agreement and they are in line with the agreement reached by the opposition parties in the Stortinget in June of this year. I am also pleased with the signals I received from the opposition in the financial debate when it came to kindergartens, that I can come back to Stortinget with proposals to implement the agreement when the investigations are available. I aim to achieve this in the context of the revised national budget. The nursery allowance has been compensated for by the price adjustment for the whole of 2003 as of 1 January 2003. This helps kindergartens to cope with cost growth in 2002. In addition, a strong growth in the operating grant is foreseen from 1 August 2003. However, for 2002, the Government has not proposed a reduction or re-disposal of funds at the kindergarten chapter. The feedback from the county councillors, who manage the state grants, suggests that the year’s allocation does not seem to provide a lower level of consumption. The reason for this is the following: As the Storting also knows, less consumption will be on the cap. 856 Kindergartens give rise to a similar need on the cap. 844, which relates to cash support. These two budget lines are seen in context. I would like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that in this year's budget we have gone a long way towards integrating the gender and gender perspective into budgetary work. The annex to the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs budget is thus an important contribution and new work to focus on gender mainstreaming in all planning. This year's attachment is therefore something I strongly wish to incorporate as a regular practice in budgetary work. Finally, I would like to comment on the comparison between children and the elderly by SV representative May Hansen. It won't last. She compares the cash support with that, for example. healthy elderly people would receive money to live at home. The starting point is completely wrong, because not all elderly people have a need for care, while all young children have it. Sick elderly people who need help get it in different ways. Some people get institutional space, others get help at home. It is the freedom of choice for the parents we provide when parents should be able to choose either kindergarten or cash support according to their own needs and wishes. I admit, though, that before we have full babysitting, we will not be able to say that you have complete freedom of choice. But there, fortunately, we're on the right track, in good company, all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1654	In a joint remark in the vote, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV express deep concern about what is now happening in Norwegian municipalities. We note that the majority here in the Chamber increase cash transfers to families with children, while cutting the welfare of children and young people in many municipalities. It is felt that the school leisure system is becoming more expensive, that it is being cut into the school budgets, that recreational clubs are being laid down, and that the support system for very many child and youth activities in culture and sport is being reduced. All that we talk about, prevention, good growth conditions and good welfare systems are exposed to a poor municipal economy that this ageing has adopted. In addition, we see that we are struggling in important areas for the very weakest within, among other things. child protection. Therefore, we have used some of the cash support money for a number of earmarked measures for children and young people, and a large pot goes to welfare measures in municipalities. I understand that the cash support is an important matter for the Christian People's Party, but there is an increase in cash support of 240 million in real terms. kr, according to the proposition. We have inserted a number of measures in our approach, including: in the case of family guidance, crisis centres, violence prevention, adoption support, child protection, kindergartens, among others. in Oslo inner East, Saved Barna, youth action in the cities and districts and Freefonds – which together represent only half of the increase in cash support that the government parties are now receiving together with the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is: wouldn't it have been much better to use at least a little bit of the increase in cash support to secure such fundamental areas as violence prevention, crisis centres and youth action in cities and districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1663	First of all, I am somewhat surprised at the comments made by the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV that the welfare services for children and young people are being reduced. I will almost allow myself to ask questions about how it can be documented – because that does not lead to correctness. Children’s and youth organisations will receive significant increased support next year. With regard to youth action in rural areas, the level of action is maintained in 2003 at the same level as in 2002. We have strengthened the subsidies on big cities for children and young people. These are just some of the measures I can mention. So that's something I'm wondering about. In fact, in the case of cash support, there is no very fresh means for the opposition parties to join. So you choose to cut the cash support, which we actually know from a number of studies maybe is the most important, at least one of the most important economic balancing mechanisms we have in this country. It is particularly important for those with low income. That is why I am surprised that they are going so aggressively and believe that it is a better way to take from the weakest people – i.e. the cash support – and use these funds for other good purposes as well. In the case of co-operation measures/family protection, the area has also been increased in the proposal for a government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1679	The Progress Party believes that all aspects of family policy must be based on volunteering, freedom of choice and maximum predictability. First of all, we want all public support for families with children, including cash support, child care grants and birth grants, to be combined into one benefit, namely in a strongly increased child-restraint. The aim is to remove today's discriminatory family policy towards the parents who make the active choice of values: being at home with the children. In order to ensure that parents have the best possible security of choice, it is important that the financial frameworks are stable and, in good enough, also over time. In order to maintain real value for children and not to be diluted slowly, it is important that we ensure its size. The promotion party wants an automatic price adjustment of the child's rights. With such an indexation, children’s benefit recipients will have a much higher degree of predictability in their economic situation over time. An indexation will also ensure that a slow shift in child welfare, which has taken place over many years, stops. Stabilising the level of child protection in relation to the actual expenditure of families with children is the best guarantee of achieving the purpose of child protection. In our alternative state budget, we propose an increase in child welfare by 350 million. kr., as a consequence of indexation. The questions are: Will the Council of State help to stop the confusion of child welfare and ensure that it is automatically indexed? Will the Council of State make an overall assessment during 2003 of all support provided to families with children and perhaps allow them to have this paid out through the provision of child benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1688	To the last question, I will answer a clear and direct no. I don't have any plans. In terms of child welfare and automatic price adjustment, I also have no plans – so far in any case – to go for a proposal on that. At least the government has not taken up such a discussion. I would also like to point out that there have been many years of child-restraint since the child-restraint has been priced at all by various governments and the Stortinget. I believe to remember that it is so far back as in 1995 or 1997 that the last time we had a price adjustment of child welfare. It tells me that you might want to see child welfare in a larger context. We know that children’s families may have been the group in society that has been better off in recent years, despite the fact that child welfare has not been adjusted – perhaps precisely because there have been good support schemes for families with children in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1695	We have just had a debate in this Chamber on crisis centres. There is a common comment in the setting, which I would like to read up and hear what the Council of State intends to do. There a majority, all except the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, say that they have ‘remarked that the Ministry has not taken into account that the crisis centres are in an acute crisis now because municipalities and counties are withdrawing their share of the funding due to them. poor municipal and county finances. In the transition to health enterprises, funding for some crisis centres became unclear. The women's violence committee was not aware of this until they submitted their interim report. The inclusion of earmarked grants from 2004 to which the Ministry provides is too late. It is necessary to allocate funds in the budget for the crisis centres from 1 January 2003». The working party, the centre part and SV have added 37 million. kr to do so. The progress party, which is part of the joint comment, has not added a krona. The comment further states: ‘This majority wants all counties to have an incest centre. Today, there are no offers in More and Romesdal, Northland and Oppland. There's a big difference in the offer around the country. There is a need to increase the level of competence of public services, and the offer to families and children where children are exposed to sexual abuse is too poor.» What I want to ask the Council of State is how she will take care of this majority comment. This is where the majority say that you should have an incest centre in each state, and you also say that you should include funds in the 2003 budget, even though the Progress Party has not followed up that observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1713	It's not that many days since we had the debate on Document No. The 8 proposal on crisis centres, where I also answered this question. But I don't mind repeating it. As the representative knows, we are working on a new financing system for crisis centres. In fact, this is more than the financing mechanism itself. There is also an overall discussion related to different parts of the quality of crisis centres. So it's not just about the economy itself, it's also about upgrading in some areas. With regard to the ambiguity of transition to health businesses, I also last said that here I have a dialogue with the Health Minister and the Ministry of Health. It shall not be such as to make the transition to health care establishments uncertain where, where appropriate, local resources are to be taken from. We're going to get back to this. Then to the very economy of the crisis centers. If we look at this year's allocation, there's been an increase in the grants for crisis management, precisely because the municipalities have actually given a good deal of money. We're very happy about that, and, to put it that way, what the municipalities give, that also gives the state, automatically. We know that the growth of municipal subsidies from 2000 to 2001 was barely 6 pst, and the growth from 2001 to 2002 was 10 pst. Of course, it doesn't say anything about the fact that the need may be increasing, and possibly greater than this. But there are some budgetary processes going on in these days, and we still don't know how this will turn out in terms of municipalities and county councils and grants to the crisis centres. However, we have not had any formal contacts with the Department that address problems with the economy for specific crisis centres in 2003. I'd like the Storting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1724	In response to the representative Giske, the Council of State questioned whether the welfare of children and young people is being weakened. It shows, in my view, that the Council of State knows little about the budgetary processes that are taking place in Norwegian municipalities during these days. So three simple questions. Does the Council of State think it's fair that it's the toddlers' parents who are going to pay for their part of the nursery contract? That's the one question. So I'd like to get into adoption support a little bit. There the Government of the Sem Declaration has said it will increase during the period. They've been in power for $900 this year. What's the escalation plan at that point? And finally, the minority re-priorities under Framework Area 2 show, in my view, very good family policies and very good centre policies. And I want to ask whether the Council of State agrees that in another, given situation, this is a policy that could also fit the Christian People's Party well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1735	With regard to the welfare offer to children and young people, I believe that we have very many good and good measures in our budget. We're continuing, and we're increasing in some areas. With regard to the reduction in the baby supplement from next year, we have chosen by the Government to do this, but we wanted the cash support to be maintained. For cash support, a grant is for families with children who do not choose kindergarten. In most cases, it will in fact be — in any case, and perhaps from next year’s time — that families receiving kindergartens will also have a significant reduction in their parental price. So if you look at this in any way, over a few years, most of them will get far more than the grant that we give to the cash-assisted children. It's just like that. We believe – I want to repeat it – that the cash support is an incredibly good arrangement for very many families with young children. As a former representative of the government parties said, there is a very large proportion of the Norwegian population with small children using the cash support per year. today. It is an important contribution to the families of children. We've chosen to do it this way. That the Workers' Party and the other parties want to use the cash support in other ways, it gets to be – we disagree about this. We believe that using it on young children's parents is the best thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1744	Back to cash support: Many elderly people have a need for care that is not met, and most older people over a certain age have a great need for care – therefore the comparison. The council says we're taking away the weakest when we take away the cash support. What does that mean? Is it true that all parents do not need cash support? Cash support is of little use for care. The intention has not been achieved. Many families use it to pay the day mother black, and these children do not get more care than the children who are in kindergarten? And it turns out that very, very few reduce their working hours. The Council of State says there are no cuts in the welfare offer. There are cuts in welfare services for children across the country — in child protection, in prevention — due to poor municipal economy. That's what we want to do in our alternative budget. Does the Council of State feel that there are no cuts to children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1751	I would first like to remind the representative that what the opposition parties are doing is redeploying money that is currently going to cash support. In this sense, there is no better welfare provision being introduced by the opposition — it is allocated in a slightly different way. The reason why the cash support is so important is, as I tried to say in the past, a number of investigations have been carried out regarding the cash support, and it is said that the cash support is one of the most important financial balancing mechanisms in this country. Therefore, what we say is that it is targeted, and that it is particularly important – it goes on in these studies – for those with the lowest income, i.e. the most difficult economically. I disagree that the cash support is not successful. I think it's very successful. It gives a great freedom of choice for families with children. It turns out that the only goal of the cash support that was for parents to be at home was to achieve something more at home. In my opinion, the cash support is successful. It kind of depends on the eyes that look, of course. If you're very opposed, it's possible to argue against, as we hear. Finally, when it comes to municipalities having poor finances, I would like to mention one example, child protection. Child protection in municipalities today makes an excellent effort. It's working incredibly well. We've looked at what municipalities are doing with child-restraint workers. We know that there is actually an increase in the number of employees in child protection, despite poor finances in municipalities. And that's very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1762	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1765	What is the status now – after the equality law has worked for more than 20 years? There are still major challenges to achieving equality in today’s Norway. We've been resting on the laurels for a long time. We might have become world champions in formal equality 20 years ago, but not in real equality. In the revision of the gender equality law in our country, demands were made for important bodies in society, not least business and social organisations, to take on increased responsibility for gender equality. There are important improvements to the law, but it must not be a sleeping cushion. We have to use every opportunity to carry the gender equality tab high. Many believe that we have equal pay in 2002. But more than 20 years after it was prescribed, it is still the case that gender determines pay. In private services, e.g. in the banking service, women have 82,6 p.m. of the wages and salaries of men. School life is best, but even here, the pay difference is 93.8 pst. The revised Equality Act now provides for the possibility of comparing salaries across trade boundaries and collective bargaining agreements. Women and men continue to take different education and work in different areas and in different sectors, even with equal education. It is an important step forward that we can now compare wages across the board. If such a comparison shows that the works are of equal value, even though they are externally different, they should also be paid equally. That means that we can now compare relatively different areas of work. There should no longer be any obstacle to, for example: a woman who is a nurse may be able to assess her salary against the salary of a male engineer in the same undertaking. That is a great step forward. In 1981, the same year that Gro Harlem Brundtland became our first female prime minister, she introduced a provision on gender representation in public governments and councils. It's been 20 years. Was there anyone who said we were in arrears? Equality must not only be strengthened; it must be governed. Responsibility for promoting equality does not apply only to the public. This applies to everyone, not a few selected. We know that it's only 6 pst. Women in government and advice in Norway, and still the leading economies of industry have only 6 pst. women in senior management positions. Women have increased their skills, and there is now a majority of women in higher education institutions, but among the professors are still only 11 pst. women. It must be completely absurd for this majority of women to go to an institution where almost nine out of ten in the leading academic positions are men. Here we have a great job to do. We have come a long way in equality in Norway, but not far enough. The amendments to the Gender Equality Act, with a requirement of 40 pst. gender representation on management boards may contribute to the re-establishment of equality on the agenda. I hope that the work done with the business community reaches out. If not, this must be legislated so that there is no choice. The prohibition of discrimination in the use of rights of leave was also reinforced in the revision of the Equality Act. It was an important step to strengthen men's right to a share of maternity leave. This provision shall strengthen the position of men in relation to employers who have little understanding when father wishes to avail himself of his statutory entitlement to the parental quota and leave for two weeks after birth. It is essential for the development of the family and for the division of roles between the sexes that parental leave rights be strengthened. The fight for gender equality at home is an important challenge in the future. The kindergarten reform focuses on providing accessible and well-edagogical services to all children during the day. It's for the benefit of the children. Another effect of the reform is that it builds up equality. Family policy is central to ensuring equality at home. The working party was responsible for the spring quota of four weeks of maternity leave. Today, there is something most fathers use. When a couple have a child, there are dramatic changes in the role distribution in the home. The first two weeks have fathers today the right to be home, approx. half with the right to pay, the remainder unpaid. It's important that we strengthen the leave arrangements that provide that opportunity. The Council of State is talking about the cash support, and a lot of money is spent on it in Norway. But we can see that it has not been a promoter of equality. It turns out that there are women who, through the cash support, get a few minutes extra with their children. It's much smaller than what you could have gotten for the same sum in other areas. Men have not had any effect on it. We still have to have great ambitions in gender equality policy. Unfortunately, this year is also a rest year in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1793	After hearing the comments of the representatives Ulf Erik Knudsen from the Progress Party and May Hansen from SV, I have to say that I have great confidence in the design of our modernisation policy. One claims that nothing happens. The other claims that efficiency is going so fast that it's going well. One claims that the Government’s modernisation policy is one-sided outsourcing and privatisation. The other one wants us to oblige all state and municipal businesses to launch competitive outsourcing immediately. I think we can say that we have a good central approach to modernising in relation to these posts. It has been said that we unilaterally focus on improving efficiency in the modernisation of the public sector. That's not right. It is very important that we get effective offers, because efficiency is an important element. But I guess it's so important that we get offers that meet the needs of individual users. Marianne Gullestad has pointed out that we have a problem in society by not being able to deal with the complicated everyday life that 4.5 million different individuals in Norway gradually have. The major challenge for the public sector is one way or another to obtain a user right that takes into account the everyday lives of individual users of public services as a starting point, instead of taking on a network or simple governance principle as a starting point. The only means in which we believe to achieve this is systematic delegation and decentralisation of responsibilities and powers from central governments and in individual businesses. It's the individual businesses that meet the users. Individual establishments are able to adapt their offers to the needs of individual users. However, they can only do that if individual businesses themselves take care of parts of the design of the service offer and decide how to organise themselves. Only when they receive it can they organise themselves from the user and inwards, instead of organising the offerings from the central authorities and beyond. I think it is very gratifying that the Workers' Party in its comments places such emphasis on precisely delegation and decentralisation as the approach we need to use. In relation to delegation and decentralisation, the outsourcing of competition is one of several interesting instruments. We don't have a religious relationship with the outsourcing of competition. If other ways to get local solutions are better, we're open to it. However, the outsourcing of competition is one important instrument that should apply. The representative Knudsen also said that it happened very little. I think perhaps the representative Mr Knudsen should bear in mind that modernisation can take place in two ways. One is to take individual sectors into account and launch major sectoral reforms, of the kind of hospital reform, the reform of higher education or what we are now doing on the supervisory side — and that is an important and good approach. But another way that is equally important is to take into account the individual functions that businesses are going to operate with, and modernise each of them. If we are to delegate and decentralise, it is important that we systematically delegate and decentralise responsibility for human resources policy, responsibility for financial management and management, responsibility for procurement policy, etc. It is only when we have done it systematically in all areas, to all state and local authorities that we have really implemented a programme of delegation and decentralisation. A very large part of our modernisation policy has just been able to take on a function-by-function role. Let me just mention two examples. One is the delegation of responsibility for public procurement. In order to systematically delegate and decentralise, local units must also be responsible for what is involved in purchasing. It is interesting to note that the Workers' Party, which otherwise says so much nice about delegation and decentralisation, has included in its draft budget a stipulated savings related to having a new central purchasing agreement for the state with Microsoft. I think it should be borne in mind that purchases represent a large part of the costs of businesses, and without the companies themselves having to take responsibility for these costs, they will not have incentives to choose the best and most cost-effective solutions. Central agreements that can look beneficial on paper will often focus solely on price and not be adapted to local needs. In fact, the central agreements have not proved to provide particularly good conditions, but that is another matter. If we don't get local units to take the cost of purchasing and to be aware of what they actually need, we don't get into a policy of delegation and decentralization. We are convinced that when we have cancelled the agreement with Microsoft and re-evaluate the central purchasing cooperation in the field of IT, it will bring great benefits to the public. Another area I would like to mention is the personnel area. We are responsible for the individual staff development departments. We have more local pay now than ever before. We give the individual units a larger range of instruments, including termination benefits and bonuses as alternatives to waiting pay. This is also part of the policy on delegation and centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1822	I see from the Newspaper on Wednesday 11 December that the Council of State assures me that moving eight state supervision out of Oslo will pay off in the long term. Then I see a look in today's business that the Competition Authority believes the opposite. Of course, as a regional big business, I agree that state jobs should be spread to the whole country, and it would have been ideal for jobs to be laid out further in the districts than just to regional centres. But I understand this with the professional environment. I hope the Council of State thinks even more districts the next time new government jobs are to be established. The working party is, as you know, very busy using the whole country. The problem of emigration is all the 900 families who have an uncertain life situation. Children may need to leave school and friends, and Mom and Dad must start selling and buying houses if they do not choose to stay in Oslo and sit in the unemployment line. Oslo currently has the largest unemployment rate in the country. We in the Workers' Party think it is very important to take care of man. That's when I ask: what measures does the Council of State Norman intend to take to ensure that the individual worker, the individual family, can get the least harmful out of this process? How does the Council of State view such a large relocation in a short time in relation to unemployment in Oslo? We know that many people will choose not to move with the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1835	Thank you for the question, which I very much appreciate having the opportunity to answer. Let me first just correct a little mistake. It is true that unemployment in Oslo is high, but it is no higher than in the cities we propose the supervision moved to – just so we are clear. With regard to the consideration of the employees when moving, we have put a lot of emphasis on their proper care. Maybe the most important thing we're doing there is telling us that the move is going to take place over a three-year period from next summer, i.e. almost four years in time. At the same time, we require each supervisory body to draw up individual career plans in consultation with the individual and the individual's trade union, if they are a member of a trade union, which is to ensure both the proper care of those who wish to move, and who are to take care of each of those who wish to remain until supervision moves, and at the same time help them to do other work. We have made it possible to use bonus schemes to keep key personnel as long as possible until they move, and that at the same time, in close cooperation with the Department of Labour and Administration, and if necessary with Aetat, a scheme will be made to ensure that these people work during that period, if they don't want to move. We have the feeling that we have established a good dialogue with the main associations in the state about the processes that are to take care of individuals. Our aim is that the transfer of these supervision should be a good example of how to carry out conversions in the country without causing the exclusion of workers, because it is not the individual worker who has earned. It's not, in this case, the supervision has earned, and at least it's not society that deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1845	I understand that the Council of State does not agree with the Progress Party in all matters relating to the modernisation of the public sector, but if the Council of State has begun to use SV as a yardstick for its work on reducing public bureaucracy, improving efficiency, rationalising and launching competition, I understand the reason why things are going slowly. But it really wasn't what I was going to ask questions about in this row exchange. My question is about the AFP. Governments are among those who have identified future labour needs in Norway. The need must be so great that people must be imported from outside the EEA territory. The Progress Party sees it this way: in a tight labour market, as we have and in the future will have in a number of sectors in Norway, it is a paradox that a society through early retirement schemes has facilitated an increasing number of job-seekers to leave the labour market before the ordinary retirement age. We think that it is unreasonable to contribute to over-state budgets. The AFP system is central here. It seems completely opposite to what we actually need in our society. I'm familiar with the fact that right-hand formerly shared the view of the Progress Party on AFP. However, in recent years this view has become more unclear. Can the Council of State clarify his and the Government’s views on the long-term development of the AFP scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1856	I fully share the representative's concern about the extent of early retirement in Norway, and it is a concern I share with the rest of the Government, with all the parties in the Government and with all the parties in the Stortinget, as far as I can see. There was one of the main reasons why the previous government agreed with the social partners on a more inclusive working life, where increasing the actual retirement age was one of the operational objectives. In the Memorandum of Understanding to which the Government has signed up, it is at the same time that it has defined the instruments to be used to try to obtain, among other things. the actual retirement age. Our attitude is that at first we should give these instruments a chance. That means that our work for inclusion, among others. shall take place within the framework of the existence of an AFP scheme. At the same time, if not for too long, the Storting will deal with the suspension of the Pension Commission, and in the discussion on the Pension Commission’s suspension, the whole question arises as to how we can get a decent pension scheme in the future. In this context, the discussion about the AFP will also appear naturally. But I think it's important in the inclusion work we're now doing, that we stay within the tools of the intention agreement, give these a chance, and then we can hope that it will lead. Should it prove that we are not achieving the goal, of course, all parties will be interested to see if we need to assess other instruments. But for the time being, we must give the instruments contained in the agreement a chance and accept that the instruments not contained in the agreement should lie until we see whether the ones in the agreement actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1863	Only five out of 18 counties are able to carry out statutory supervision of children in child protection institutions. There is concern for lack of supervision, and this may lead to children being placed on the wrong paragraph, so that they do not have the rights they are entitled to or that the care of the institution is not satisfactory either. Several officials report that they do not have the resources to carry out their statutory duties. The Ministry has assigned increased supervisory responsibilities without following up on increased resources. It is very serious when the supervision of municipal child protection and child protection institutions is not properly respected. When the public intervenes against children and their families, it is necessary to ensure that the offer is tailored to the needs of the individual child and that the content meets quality objectives. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the law is not broken? This is under his department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1872	In addition to other important tasks, the staff have a key role to play in the supervisory process. We are very concerned that they should have both the ability to carry out the work properly and that they themselves should organise this work in such a way that they meet the requirements we have set. It's always going to be like this in all the agencies that you'd like to have more resources, and always have the feeling that resources don't go to. Our assessment is quite clear that the resource framework of the statesmen does not prevent them from carrying out the statutory tasks properly. We see that the county officials are working hard to reduce the processing time on a number of issues and get the supervisory work up in a number of matters. We see so many differences between the county offices in achieving the goal that we have come to realize that this is more a matter of good organisation than of increasing the resource framework. Our perception is that here you can achieve a lot better goals without having a larger framework of resources than what has been included in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1879	A little random, but I was going to say a little bit about the county office. The central party agrees and, of course, sees the need for the office to have sufficient resources for, among other things. ensuring the legal certainty of the individual citizen, inter alia: through review procedures and supervision. The central party and the state councils may also agree on the need for a reduction in government bureaucracy. On such a basis, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he can also agree that matters of a discretion can be left to political level. And since it is Friday just before Christmas, I can also allow myself to say at regional level, and that it must not enter the county. And further, is it necessary for the public sector, the different levels of government, to use as much resources as they do today to control and monitor each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1890	Local judgement needs to be exercised both in state institutions and in municipalities whose public sector is to function fairly well. In principle, we have spent too much time in regulation management in Norway and too little on delegation and decentralisation of discretion in very many cases. One of the reasons that the public sector appears to be bureaucratic and user-friendly is that the opportunity to exercise discretion locally in establishments or municipalities is too small. In connection with the modernisation work, we are therefore working on a larger project that aims to have a smaller degree of regulation management and a greater degree of governance such as: implies greater local discretion. When it comes to the specific question, whether local judgement should be over-tested by the county council, I think we have to realize that if you are to have an element of local discretion, you also have to open up the possibility that that discretion might have to be over-tested in some way in order to avoid the perception being the same as arbitrariness. I therefore believe that although political, discretionary decisions must be at political level, a judgement in individual cases at municipal level must in some cases be subject to discretionary review also by the county council. But it is important to clarify which issues are involved, and in which issues the exercise of discretion is a political discretion that belongs to a political level.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1899	One of the areas for which the Council of State is responsible is State Building. The state is a major property owner and also a major developer. Unfortunately, it is not always such that the country is an equally good property owner and property manager. We have a tendency to maintain our property stock too poorly, and we also have a tendency, I think, to underinvest in that type of capital to ensure good and efficient operation. We see in the 2003 budget that both the start-up of construction projects, the continuation of construction projects and the construction of new buildings are going down. The major university developments we've had in recent years are about to end, and little or nothing is going on. The budget of the Education Committee, however, despite the full turnaround of the Government, started the University of Eastfold, but we know that both in Stavanger, in Nesna and in many other places, there is work that is not good enough. My question is really to the Minister of Efficiency. This is used as a means of cyclical policy, to hold back construction activities in order to reduce demand. At the same time, consumption for private consumption will increase next year by NOK 23 billion. Had it not been a more sensible allocation of labour capacity in Norway to focus more on sustainable capital values that might also improve the functioning and efficiency of the economy, inter alia. on the construction sector in the higher education sector than the huge increase in short-term consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1908	Let me first say that it is difficult to see what the value of investments is, if they are not going to dissipate in the next round in terms of either private or public consumption. Saying that we're wasting our resources using them for private or public consumption, and that we're not throwing them away by investing them, testifying to a reality that at least I don't share. If we don't do what we do, at the end of the day, the single population benefits in terms of private or public consumption, it doesn't have any special value. Let me also take a little distance from the notion that there is such a terrible problem with the maintenance of public buildings or with the quality of the public ownership of buildings. It has become much better over the years, thanks to a state that has increasingly taken responsibility for its building mass. I think we should be happy about that. With regard to State-Building Investments, in concrete terms, in 2003, it is correct, as the representative Giske says, that there is a low level of investment activity. I think everyone who is trying to get a dwelling or to get a handicraft in the Norwegian market is going to be happy that the state is holding back from seizing a part of the labour market that has been and is still very much under pressure. I think it makes sense to use the timing of public investment in construction as part of the short-term policy, in order to avoid overburdening the markets in periods where it smells sweat, to say the least, and at the same time to use periods of slack in the construction market to realize important state-owned construction projects. I think it's a line that you're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1919	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1924	The Consumer Council, as it operates in Norway, has a special contact with the people. There are 140 000 phone calls per year in addition to 20 000 visits to the offices. The condition that we can still boast of this Norwegian model as one of the best in the world is that the Consumer Council is provided with resources, so that the service currently operated can be continued. The minority has proposed an increase of 10 million in the budget of the Consumer Council. kr – this in order to maintain the proximity of consumers with one office in each country. This proximity is important for many reasons. The greatest power is exercised by the fact that the offices are there and act as a kind of rice behind the mirror in relation to those who will not follow the rules of the game. Furthermore, the Consumer Council is a support and alliance partner for the serious business life. Both the buyers and the sellers are well served to comply, and the cowboys in the industries are taken. Due to reduced transfers and special costs and to accommodate new technical equipment, there have been reductions and savings in the Consumer Council in the last 10 years. In the same period, there has been a steady increase in the number of enquiries. The reason may be that marketing is increasingly being used, which in turn means that the purchasing pressure is increasing. In many contexts, the government claims that proximity between service providers and end-users is an important objective. The Consumer Council, with today's structure, is doing just that. As a result, it seems particularly strange that no funds are allocated, so that operations can be continued according to today's model. This is particularly important for the part of the population that has difficulty saying no to a eloquent telephone salesman. Today’s sales are the most economically supportive of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and are losing visibility in an increasingly complex market. We are in danger of creating a B-layer that does not reach because of geographical distance or technical constraints, if we do not increase transfers in relation to what has been proposed. Two examples: 1st@item: inlistbox The Consumer Council has a special role to play in informing and putting in place legislation that will raise awareness and protect children and young people.2. The Consumer Council has a special task to influence legislation and to be a problem-gatherer and watchman in relation to food quality and those who sell food in an illegal and unethical way. It is a well-known matter that the new Board of Consumer Council has been presented with a proposal to halve the number of consumer offices, so that there will only be ten left. If the majority stands firm by saying no to increased appropriations, it is a poor consolation to the consumers of the country that this fury is required to be submitted to the department for approval. If there is no majority in favour of increased appropriations today, we consider the matter to be so important that we ask for it to be submitted for major consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1952	It's Friday afternoon, and the debate is approaching the end. I'm not going to use my measured three minutes. A little about the adoption aid: Government parties refer to the Sem declaration where they undertook to increase the aid during the period. They suggest an increase of NOK 900, to NOK 23 400 per person. children in 2003. The minority refers to its ambition to increase aid to l G during the period. The centre party remains committed to this promise and proposes to increase the adoption aid to NOK 35000 per year. children by adding 8 million to the budget line. kr in its 2003 alternative budget. In view of the high profile of the representatives of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the media in this matter, it is disappointing that the Party of European Socialists does not support this proposal. I have now been involved for two years in the budgetary work of this committee and have not seen that the Progress Party has lifted its finger to increase adoption aid. It is almost tempting to ask if one policy is pursued in the media and another in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1964	With regard to positions on the dispositions of the Advance Party in the field of family policy, perhaps the representative should refer to what I, as the fractional leader, have said in the media. I have not registered that I have said anything in the media about this. I believe that the statements that have been made are due to a misunderstanding in relation to support for birth help. A small correction to our vote on the proposals No. 29 and 30, the proposals from SV. Proposal No. 29 we still think is a good proposal. As I said earlier today on proposal No. 30, it has a level of detail that we're a little bit skeptical about going into. We would like to support the intention, but we feel that it is a little too detailed for us to take it over the table, and we recommend to the proposers to turn it into a transmission proposal. If that's not done, we're going to go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1971	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e1987	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1303]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2003	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1304]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2020	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2037	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2069	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2086	No one has asked for the floor. The size has now come to consideration of case No. 8 on Agenda No 30. [[See page 1305]] The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2107	The budget proposal provides a briefing on the work of reorganising the external links of the Customs Union with a view to a more efficient use of resources in the light of increasing internationalisation, more open borders in Europe, more organised international crime and the demands for greater flexibility and adaptability. The Labour Party agrees with the main elements of the new structure, but would point out that the choice of regional customs office in the South region, on the basis of the overall criteria used, should be chosen for the Drammen. The dram became a district customs office as late as 1 January 2001, and it is in this part of the new region the traffic is strongest. Now the Government and Customs Directorate will continue to work on the number and location of customs offices. In this work, we believe that great emphasis must be placed on the objections raised, especially in relation to the structure so far outlined along the coast. Here, the customs office structure must be adapted to the needs of industry. We have a strong export-oriented business life across the coast, and it would be very unfortunate if the customs office structure applied to this business, which weighs heavily from before, new disadvantages and costs. There is also a large majority in the Committee that points out that Narvik customs office should be maintained, and I expect the Government – even if the Minister of Finance does not hear this – to take this into account in the further work, even if the majority refuses to instruct the Government through a decision. Under the budgetary agreement, the Government Parties and the Advance Party agreed to reduce the appropriations for the State Pension Fund by nearly DKK2.2 billion by requiring the Post and the NSB to cover the entire under-coverage and premium increase for 2003. This procedure is critical. There is disagreement between the State and the companies as to the proportion of this to be the responsibility of the companies. Such questions should not then be settled by means of an additional round of budgetary negotiations. The State should act as a predictable and good owner. Such grips that are now taking place mean the opposite. The post itself says in a letter to the Workers' Party's fraction in the committee that this – even with the equity injection adopted today – will weaken the company's ability to follow up the plans that have been made and that have been approved both by the General Assembly and here in the Stortinget. The result is that efforts to adapt to an increasingly demanding competitive situation need to be stepped up and the economic strength to bet offensively weakened. In addition, this will reduce the value of the company. A majority of the Storting gave the Item $1 billion more in equity than what the Government proposed to us. The working party will assess the need for an additional equity injection both in the Post and NSB, when the notifications of the activities of these companies are submitted to the Spring Stortinget. I assume that the Government will facilitate a broad analysis of the equity needs of companies in these messages, in the light of what is happening now. The last thing I want to point out is the Swedish Aviation Agency and the assessments of the equity requirement for conversion into a limited liability company. There is disagreement between the company and the government in the view of the level of equity the company should have, in view of the investment needs that exist. The Working Party, SV and the Center Party believe that the Swedish Aviation Agency’s equity should be strengthened by SEK 1.6 billion now. The Progress Party has a proposal for a significantly higher strengthening. I hope that the Progress Party will support our proposal subsidiaryly, so that the equity of the Aviation Agency is strengthened in line with what the Government and Government parties propose. With this, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting alone or together with others, and that are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2135	Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2138	The Progress Party is mainly associated with the regional breakdown of the external tariff and tax administration proposed by the Customs Directorate, but does not agree with the borderline between the Central Norway region and the Nord region. Here, there are practical reasons why the county border between Troms and Nordland is also becoming the border between the customs regions of Central Norway and Nord, and that Harstad does not carry out tasks in the northern part of Nordland. With regard to the location of regional customs offices, one of the government’s choices seems remarkable. This concerns the proposal to place the regional customs office of the South Region of Kristiansand. According to the directorate, a natural location of the regional customs office would be in Westfold. The Directorate points out that the main gravity of traffic in the region is in this area and that developments are increasing the importance of the area from the customs and tax havens. It is pointed out that air traffic from Torp, which is already the second largest international airport in the country, is growing sharply, and that the same applies to ferry traffic both to Sweden and Denmark. Furthermore, it is an important geographical point that Vestfold is centrally located in the region and easily accessible. This is the technical and well-founded recommendation of the Directorate. It is therefore quite curative when the Government chooses not to follow this recommendation, but instead proposes Kristiansand, which has significantly less traffic of both passengers and goods, and in addition is at the very edge of the region with poor accessibility. Westfold naturally feels unreasonable and incalculable in this matter, as is the case with Drammen, which is also a clearly more logical alternative than Kristiansand, both in terms of traffic volume and availability. When the government makes such a remarkable choice across the directorate's professional advice, it should at least take the trouble to make an attempt to justify this choice. But the government has not done so in this matter. ‘An overall assessment’ means, in good Norwegian, a lack of factual arguments, and suspects that other and outside considerations have been taken that one does not wish to communicate. It is not good either for politics or for politicians. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2153	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2156	I will take to myself only one of the issues mentioned in the setting, namely the reorganisation of the customs and charging seat. When it comes to the other issues, the representative Svein Roald Hansen has referred to them in a good way both when it comes to the Post, the NSB and the Swedish Aviation Agency, and I share the views of the representative Hansen. SV agrees with the overarching objective of achieving an organisation of the external administration of the Customs and Fees Set, which allows the most efficient use of resources, and so that the organisation is appropriate to the challenges faced by Customs. And first of all, I want to make it clear that we are joining the regional division and the choices of the regional customs offices that the government has submitted. But we still want to point out that we are not some in the choice of method, simply centralization and larger units as the right solution for the external administration. There are considerable differences in geography and added figures within the district customs offices that are now proposed to be reorganised into customs offices or proposed closures. There have also been several critical comments on some elements of the structure proposed. The Norwegian Toller Federation has inter alia: pointed out that the evidence refers to the conclusions you have drawn, not in close proximity to satisfaction. The task force that the customs director has seen down has been using data and statistics for only one year, and one has not proved that the larger units are the ones that base control on information and mobility, which will deliver the best results, and it is very unfortunate that work has not focused on the risk assessment developed by the districts and produced as late as June 2002. In the light of this risk assessment, a much more objective assessment of the districts can be carried out in terms of volume, resources and results. SV suggests that this assessment be included in the further work to be done by the Government with the organisation within the regions. SV is also very critical of the fact that large coastal areas will be without the presence of the Customs Authority following the proposal submitted. The industry, particularly in these areas of export rights, has provided critical comments and protests against the submission, and has shown that the closure of so many coastal customs places will clearly lead to increased expenditure and other economic disadvantages. It is true that the largest amount of declarations is carried out electronically, but there are still a number of issues in which the business community needs physical presence or physical control from the service provider. There is a lack in the calculation that one has not shown how one will solve such tasks for enterprises that will be far removed from the nearest customs office after the reorganisation. The new units must not be so centralised that they do not consider their purpose in relation to the industry and the audience they are going to serve, and the control objects to be controlled. We should therefore wish that the work done by the department itself to figure out what tasks could be moved from central lines to district units had been completed before starting to drop an office. Even if we're some of the strategy of rationalising the administrative functions of Customs, it doesn't have to lead to centralization of the tasks. Modern ICT tools make it fully possible to perform administrative functions decentralised, so that one can meet the Government's objective of relocating government workplaces at the same time as rationalising administrative functions. Such a strategy will free resources for other work in Oslo and Akershus, just as the Government wants. SV would also point out that in connection with the previous review of the customs administration district, it was proposed to make the Gardermoen part of Hedmark and Uppland customs districts. Such a proposal could have many positive effects, including: remedying the resource-impact situation of Oslo and Akershus. We have proposed that this proposal be implemented in the further work on district management. We also found that, like the representative of Svein Roald Hansen from the Labour Party, it is unfortunate that one has opted to deviate from the rule of State when it applies to the proposal for the division of border areas between the Nordic countries and the Troms.We cannot see why Harstad has been proposed to be elected before Narvik. Narvik is a customs office that today fills all the criteria as a control business; it is a robust unit, and they meet the business needs. The Narvik area is also an area of strong growth; it is a logistics centre for North Norway, and it has a large amount of cross-border traffic, among others. highways and railways, it's one of our largest export ports and it has an international airport. We therefore propose that Narvik customs office be maintained. When it comes to the suggestions referred to in the setting itself, there is an error in a proposal from SV that has never been made in the committee and that will not be made here. Proposal No. 11 doesn't exist. Otherwise, I would like to include the suggestions that SV has in addition to the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2179	Heidi Grande Røys has both corrected and addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2182	The Association of Tax Examiners has provided useful input through consultation within the Committee. This is why the Centre Party has proposed to increase the funding for the fight against the black economy by 25 million. kr. A new study by the Frisch Centre indicated that approximately DKK 20 billion in labour income was exempted from taxation in 2001. It is a huge problem that the state loses money, but not least because it is the honest business that loses. The construction industry and the serving industry have been identified as the most vulnerable. The tax auditors say that the risk of being subjected to control is very low, and it is decreasing. For example, the number of tax evisors has been reduced by 30 pst. in seven years and due to reduced appropriations for the tax rate. The number of bookshelfs is halved from 8 000 in 1995 to 4000 in 2001. The centre party believes that society will make a lot of money on increasing resources in the fight against the black economy. I believe that the action plan presented by the tax auditors to the Committee needs to be followed up. There is a need for increased efforts at many levels in this fight, and at a lot more than just investigating. In particular, local controls and the collection of taxes are important. The centre party believes that the acquisition by the State of the local tax collection and the control of employers will be very unfortunate. Experience has shown that local authority control has the smallest resources. It is documented by Econ in a 1999 report. The balances were in the order of 1 pst. under the responsibilities of the local control and 3 pst. where county tax offices are responsible. The Centre considers that the tax collection is locally effective due to the coordination between the collection of taxes and the collection of municipal charges and their billing, and also due to local knowledge. Governmenthood would entail totally unnecessary costs of establishment and operation and competition between the municipalities and the State on competence. The situation in the Customs Tariff is in many ways similar to that in the tax rate. It is reduced and centralised, and it costs a lot of money. Again, it seems obvious that society would make a lot of money on increasing resources, so that our laws can be enforced. The proposal from the Customs Director on self-notification at individual customs points last summer is one example. It is positive that 11 million is now granted. kr more than the government proposed. The evening post recently had an article about sending people on with more than the quota. In that article, examples were given of customs acceptance of significant quota exceedances, despite the fact that people were stopped and this was discovered. People's surprise at the lack of response to this was also described. It is reasonable that customs should give priority to the pursuit of large smugglers, especially when there are few tollers and many small smugglers. But the consequences of releasing the small smugglers are serious. Respect for our laws is confusing, customs are taking over the law, and unequal and unfair treatment of the inhabitants is perceived as negative. And of course, it's huge financial losses for the state and for local businessmen. We will come back to this position in contact with the budget lines used to achieve the 2003 budget in a sound oil money balance. I think the answers given in letters to the Workers' Party, with views from the Posten and the NSB on the large pension bill they have to pay, are illustrative. Now we're going to give 800 million. kr in equity from the oil fund to partially pay the huge pension payments made by the Posten and NSB for the following year. This is money laundering. The answers given by these companies show that what has been done in the budget agreement has not been determined. It shows that there is a very bad ownership in the country shows in these cases. It turns out that investment plans in companies are being destroyed. This creates conflicts between companies and owners and between those who work there, and us politicians. There is also doubt as to whether there is a basis for collecting such a large amount of post-employment benefit costs from the companies. I would like to record the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2203	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2220	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1317]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2236	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1317]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2254	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1317]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2271	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1317]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2288	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1317]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2305	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1318]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2313	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 14 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e2320	During the debate, 33 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2–4, 11, 17 and 18, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The President noted that proposal No. 11 shall be a joint proposal by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 5-10, 14, 15 and 20-23, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on 12, 16 and 24-27, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party, No. 13, from Ola T. Heggem on behalf of the Center Party. The President noted that this proposal in the vote was misnumbered as paragraph. Amendment No 12 19 by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 28, from Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 29–33, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1–27 is included in the setting, while the others are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e3485	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 16, 24, 25, 26 and 27, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e4639	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 29, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the association ‘we who have a child too small’ receives a fixed operating grant above Cape. 846 Family and gender policy research, information work etc.» Here the President has great faith that it will be a unanimous result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e4654	The proposals are then put to the vote. 30 and 33, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a plan to follow up the following decisions of the Nordic Council meeting in Helsinki in October 2002 by the Government:1. Reviewing the laws of the Nordic countries and autonomous areas and proposing the necessary changes to ensure that visually impaired persons are given the same access as the public to the copyrights of readable media, i.e. in electronic form.2. To contribute to the removal of encryption on electronic books currently produced by specialised libraries, so that visually impaired persons can access cross-border electronic books.3. To contribute to the establishment or development of a national standard for the organisation of electronic books in commercial formats. The proposal adopted by the Nordic Council was extended not only to academics but also to all further training.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the appropriations allocated to the Consumer Office cover a consumer office in each State. In case of additional needs, the Government is asked to return to the Storting in the revised national budget.’ The centre party has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e4686	The proposals are then put to the vote. 31 and 32, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in the 2004 State Budget to increase the adoption aid corresponding to the basic amount of the public interest [[1G]] Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the conversion of grants to various publications and to return to the Stortinget on its own initiative.’ The People's Party and the Workers' Party have announced that they wish to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e4710	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5–10, 14–15 and 20–23, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer a matter to it as soon as possible for the removal of the AFP scheme for civil servants.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work towards the termination of arrangements and agreements for the development of the competence of the trustees of the official organisations at the end of the tariff period.’;» [[chapter. 1502]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that arrangements and agreements for the financing of the training and development funds of the official organisations be wound up at the end of the tariff period.’ [[chapter. 1503]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the outsourcing of the Statskonsult’s tasks in developing development and performance-oriented leaders. It is assumed that the savings resulting from the measure correspond to the cost of the first year of implementation, but that there will be a real cost reduction in the next few years.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer as soon as possible to the consequences and background of the removal of the ‘knock point’ of the State Pension Fund and to the basis for not making the change applicable to those who were already pensioners, following the hearing of the pensioners’ organisations.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the New Opera House project.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the winding-up of the Equality Ombudsman and for amending the Equality Act so that other bodies, including the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, are given the task of enforcing the central provisions of the Act.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to file a case for the assessment of the aggregation of one or more of the institutions and chapters in the consumer area, including cap. 860 Consumer Council, chap. 862 Eco-label, cap. 865 Consumer policy and international cooperation, chapter. 866 Institute of Consumer Research, and Chapter. 867 Consumer Dispute Committee.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the scheme of scholarships for artists.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The cancellation asks the Government to wind up the guarantee income scheme.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to use more than before the art already in its possession to decorate public buildings.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to distribute the aid within the limits of the cap. 335 items 76 Miscellaneous publications as follows: Day and time 2,029,642 kronerVolume 1,255,552 kronerMorgenbladet 2,09,476 kronerNorway today 1,268,212 kronerNew day 1,588,923 kronerFreedom 810,500 kronerSamora 454,768 kronerView 930,627 kronerRuijan Kaiku 379,768 kronerMagazinet 1,092,997 kronerClear number 5,550,000 kronerCourse win 500,000 kroner»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e4850	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the number of guarantee revenue from 2003 so that guarantee revenue can be allocated to far more artists’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e4865	There is now a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e6566	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2, 3, 4, 11, 17 and 18 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal that a contractual pension can be combined with the possibility of labour income up to 1G.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure progress in the development of equal pay in the public sector.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the North Light Planetary in Tromsø free of charge from Statsbygg to the University of Tromsø.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e7722	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 28, from the right, from the forepart, and from the Christian people. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian Music Councils are given the opportunity to redispatch up to 3 million. funds from the funding of the Frifonds in 2003 to the nation-wide music organisations. [[See footnote. Chassis. 320 heading 80]] The President has been informed that it is likely to be unanimously adopted. Trond Giske – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e7734	Neither the Workers' Party, the Centre Party nor the Left Party have proposals for Framework Disposal within the cultural framework. Nevertheless, all three parties will vote in favour of this proposal in order to remedy the adverse effects of the majority decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e7746	We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution. The President shall start with area 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e9411	The President assumes that here are the traditional dividing lines that apply, and that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e10528	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against this framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e10541	There is then a vote on non-framework decisions under Framework Box 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e10567	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e10581	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e10588	The number of votes in favour, 59 votes in favour and 41 votes against, which has thus been adopted. So we're left with area 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12104	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12118	In this case, there is still a need to vote for Framework Independent Decisions under Framework Area 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12878	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 2002: ‘The Government is asking the Government to secure child-rescue funds for all children under care. The funds shall be placed on a blocked account until the child reaches the age of 18 or is administered in accordance with the protection of the child.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12896	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether there is a need for further action to ensure full transparency of the revenues of the lots, including whether contributors should have an autonomous obligation to disclose the contribution.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12914	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 3 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a proposal amending the Law of 22 May 1998 No. 30 on the publication of the revenue of political parties. The amendment should include:(a) covering all organisational stages of political parties,(b) including the requirement to account for all forms of contributions above NOK 20 000, whether in cash or other forms of non-cash contributions, including labour and all other inputs that can be converted to a value of NOK 20 000 or more,(c) defining contributors as individuals or legal persons,(d) requiring contributions from contributors who are, or are organisationally linked to, one of the main social organisations to be prepared and presented together as one contribution from a contributor to one lot,(e) requiring that, together with the parties' annual accounts, no oral or written agreements be made between contributors and political parties or their elected representatives at any level, and that there is no consensus that can be perceived as reproducibility or expectation of benefits. ‘... Trond Giske – for explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12942	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party had a proposal in the Odelstinget that was voted down, which went further. We should therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12957	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 3 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a wide-ranging selection which discusses on a broad basis the financing of democracy, including the activities of political parties and elected groups, and promotes proposals for possible changes to the Law of 22 May 1998 No. 30 on the publication of the revenue of political parties and, where appropriate, other laws, regulations and rules.’;» Is it so to understand that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left want to vote against? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e12977	Ten proposals have been made during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 5, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, No. 3, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 4, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 8, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 9 and 10, by Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 12, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget is authorised under: Cape TownPostObjective:Croner1432Norwegian cultural memory fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4432)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13046	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13049	President! I ask that it be done separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13056	It is then first voted on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to add regional customs office South to Larvik/Sandefjord, in accordance with the Tolletaten’s own priorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13071	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget is authorised under: Cape TownPostObjective:Croner161Industry development [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3286)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13163	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner5312Norwegian State House Bank Deduction 906 685 000 000» [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13213	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make arrangements for the move of Gardermoen to become part of Hedmark and Uppland customs districts.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The 2003 State Budget is authorised under: Cape Town Post Purpose:Croner2412The Norwegian State House Bank [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5312 and 5615)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e13267	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 5 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e14271	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a detailed assessment of the equity situation of NSB AS and Posten Norge AS in the communications on the activities of these companies in the spring of 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e14286	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget is authorised under: Chapter.Post Purpose:Crones1315The establishment of the Aviation Agency as State limited liability company90Capital 9 216 300000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e14333	So we're going to vote over the framework areas, and we're going to start with the framework area 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e16665	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 3 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the consequences of the establishment of a central debt register and to return appropriately to the Storing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e16683	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 3 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back by 1 June 2003 with a legislative proposal allowing public creditors to accept proposals for voluntary debt regime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e16699	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Morten Lund, representative of the Central Party and the Coastal Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 3 December 2002: ‘The Government asks for proposals to be made by the Government to ensure that the tax exemption scheme for gifts from the fiscal year 2004 can cover all non-profit and non-commercial non-profit institutions serving households.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e16715	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Morten Lund, representative of the Central Party and the Coastal Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 3 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to keep the current legislation in Section 8-2 of the Tax Act [[maintenance of escalating and deductions for the construction of forest roads]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-13.ana.ud1573e16735	There is no record.
