ParlaMint-NO_2002-09-30.ana.ud1597e160	As the representatives hopefully record, a new speaker system has been installed in the staging room. The President asks those representatives who do not think this works well enough to notify me – not during the meeting, but afterwards. Now we're going to end the 146th grand total, the first in this parliamentary term. During this year the size had 105 meetings, while there have been 38 meetings in Odelstinget and 11 in Lagtinget. There have been 21 evening meetings in Stortinget and 10 in Odelstinget. 9 meetings have been held in addition to the scheduled time, at 9 a.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox Only 5 of them have gone out of the clock. 24, and it was mainly the last meeting week in the spring session. The government has promoted 238 cases for Stortinget, divided by 81 staging propositions, 117 staging propositions and 40 staging messages. The representatives of Storting have tabled 156 Document No. Eight proposals. It's the highest number that's been promoted so far in a big year. If we sum these and the accumulation propositions and the odelsting propositions from the Government, Document No. The 8-proposals are approx. 45 pst. of the proposals submitted to the Stortinget. The Committees’ contribution to what has been dealt with in the Stortinget and its departments is 275 entries for Stortinget and 84 entries for Odelstinget. In addition, of course, there are budgetary positions. The government has contributed to the debates in Stortinget with 15 presentations, including the census, government statements and budget statements. Of 119 cases that have been exposed to the next accumulation, 33 are Document No. Eight proposals and forty legal cases. Of particularly important issues dealt with by this accumulation, mention can be made of: development of snow-white climate policy-enhancing urban and urban environmentNRKmediepolitikbarnehageropera conversion of Defence Helicopter Service Quality Reforms in EducationNew tasks for local democracy ElectionState ownershipcollective transport regional aerodrome network medical use of biotechnology This is just an intersection of the issues that this magnification has dealt with. The size has also closed 32 interpellation debates. 467 questions have been answered in the ordinary questionnaire, and in the oral question procedure, which has been held 23 times, 170 main questions have been asked. The number of written questions increases for each year and is now up to 590. Among the decisions taken in the Storting are 140 so-called request decisions, i.e. decisions taking the form ‘Size asks the Government...’. This type of decision has risen sharply in the number over a 15-year period, and the President expects the Storting to address issues related to this when the selection position that the President has now been handed over from the sample that has dealt with the issue of Storting’s control activities is addressed. The number of recommendations, i.e. proposals transmitted to the Government without a vote of substance, was the last 50 years. In that case, the President shall not contribute more dry figures, but these dry figures may be important for the future planning and exploitation of the resources held by the single representative. Then it only remains for the President to declare the negotiations in the 146th grand finale. The representatives are then invited to sign the Protocols of the Storting and the Departments. The storage protocol is published in the laying room, while the Protocols for Stortinget and Odelstinget can be signed here.
