ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e51	They called for alternates, for Akershu County Sverre Myrli and for Nord-Trøndelag County Jon Olav Alstad, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e62	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e67	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e72	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current meeting. The representative Per Roar Bredvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e77	On behalf of Per Ove Width and myself, I propose to stop the destruction of BV 202 and that it be opened for sale to purchase/sell companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e82	The representative of Ursula Evje will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e85	On behalf of the representative Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to introduce an equivalent legislation for the calculation of the fee for the State Loan Fund for Education and Private Financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e91	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e109	In recent times, the debate on what to do for girls with a different cultural background has been strongly influenced by problems such as forced marriage, honorary dropout and sexual mutilation. Thanks to some stony girls with names like Kadra, Shabana, Jeanette and Nadia, this debate has been forced forward, and they deserve our full respect and support for taking this in spite of represals, heats and threats, to which we know they are being subjected. Now the girls have played the ball over to us, and that gives us a lot of responsibility. The primary responsibility is to identify measures to prevent abuse in minority settings. But the responsibility is also that we should get to grips with this in a proper way. We're not going to flip political coins on this case. We are not going to try to make this a culturally specific problem, where violence and coercion are first and foremost something that concerns ‘the others’, and that ‘they’ must become like ‘us’. Violence against women is a widespread problem also in ethnic Norwegian environments and families, and this we must try to combat with the same seriousness as the violence taking place in minority communities. Therefore, I think it was in my place to mention here in Stortinget on Tuesday that it was striking that the Progress Party was the only party that was not present in the Chamber when violence against Norwegian women – by Norwegian men – was debated, while they are only present at the microphone when the violence of Muslims and immigrants is on the agenda. And I would like to welcome the Progress Party to this Chamber today. Let's say once and for all that violence against women is not a culturally dependent problem, but that it is primarily about gender power relationships. That's why it's awfully important that we work all the time to change power structures that keep women and men in place within narrow gender roles. In my view, it is important to look at the work against violence in connection with the work of economic autonomy, representation and an equal and inclusive working life. On behalf of the SV, I would first of all like to ask the Minister of State and the entire Government to put all the cloths in place to make a special effort in school and education. The key to a successful integration policy is to ensure that everyone gets education and knowledge. In this context, SV considers it very important to set up mandatory induction programmes, including for people coming here to reunite, and that Norwegian training is linked to these programmes. All residents of this country will learn Norwegian – preferably Norwegian. But everyone can't learn as quickly or as well, and we also have to take this into account. Some are unable to learn, because they have enough to process traumas after war and other misery, while others need more time, because they were illiterate when they came. At the same time, we can't feel that on one side we have people who attend Norwegian courses for years, with constant interruptions, without making any demands for progress, while on the other side we have highly educated people who are unable to recognise their competence because the system is too rigid. It's wasting resources, and it creates distrust of the system. I would also like to ask that we stop double-communing with the minorities. For example, my Kurdish friend was very fond of the cash support, because it would enable her to have her son in the nursery so that he could learn Norwegian and make Norwegian friends. She understood little when I explained that the cash support was only something she received if she allowed her son to be in the nursery. She said, "But we get so much bullshit because we don't teach our kids Norwegian." How can they pay us to be at home? The same applies in the debate on Muslim private schools. It is still pointed out from a political point of view that such segregation is unfortunate and undesirable, but at the same time it is opened up by Norwegian law. For some government councils, such as Election Response City Haugland, this is about giving parents full freedom to choose on behalf of their children. My perspective is that the best thing for children is to be the starting point for politics, not parents. Unfortunately, the best thing for children is not always what your parents think and believe. It is not best for children to lose several years of schooling. It is not best for children to go to private schools that preach the superiority of men over women, or that it is good to discipline their children, no matter what religious doctrine they may think of anchoring such a view. It is not best for children to learn that if you do not follow the advice of adults and the teachings of God, you will burn forever in hell, or be disfellowshiped from those in whom you are happy, and that in that case it is your own fault. The best thing for children is to meet children with different opinions than themselves, to feel that adults give them security instead of anxiety and nightmares, to know that they have some fundamental rights that will never be violated. And if they do, they need to know it's not their fault. SV believes that a good integration and growth policy is to remove the cash support, give all four-year-olds free core time in the kindergarten, stop the private, religious schools and bet 100 pst. in a good, inclusive and diverse public school where young people with different backgrounds meet and become familiar with each other. The SV will highlight the importance of the implementation of the adopted action plans against pregnancy and gender mutilation at a much faster pace than today and that they should at least be implemented. At the same time, it is important that we agree on measures, including those of an acute nature, not only long-term, awareness-raising and competence-raising nature. For several weeks SV has discussed various measures aimed at preventing forced marriage and at enabling young people to stand on their own. Among other things, we discuss: the prohibition of fat and cousin marriages, the reintroduction of the dependant’s obligation, the requirement that marriages be made in Norway before reunification can be granted, the personal marriage registers in the mosques and financial penalties against parents who take their children out of school without applying for them in advance. In particular, I would very much like to see the Minister of Local Affairs looking at, because there is an unsustainable situation now how many children disappear every year, especially from the Oslo schools, in order to be sent to their parents' home country, and they lose the opportunity to have a network, and they also lose valuable Norwegian knowledge. We also believe that it is important that we look at the Child Protection Act and discuss whether the age limit for the decision-making authority is raised from 18 to 20 years. Several of the girls we've been in contact with, have also asked for this, and they have asked that, in addition to focusing on hybel collectives as an offer to young people who have broken with their families, we actively try to recruit foster families and emergency homes, because they need love and care, and many of them do not want to be reminded daily of the situation they are in, when they constantly meet others who are in exactly the same situation as them. In any case, we must agree on these measures, with children and the best of young people as a starting point. We must not go into proposals that will make it even more difficult than today to apply for help when they need it. In my opinion, proposals of the kind of "threw them out" are such that we do not achieve the goal of helping these young people, because they can then become even more rescuers to make contact. Another problem I want to point out is ethnic Norwegian men who use violence against foreign women they have brought here. We have many examples of these women enduring an abuse relationship they would otherwise have broken out of, in fear of being thrown out of the country. The so-called three-year rule has made the situation of many of these women totally unsustainable, and this is particularly serious when children are part of these families. We know that UDI practices the regulations very rigorously, and that it can be difficult to prove abuse relationships, among other things. because the UDI appears to impose even more stringent requirements on evidence than the Norwegian courts do. It is difficult enough for Norwegian women to be believed, and we can only imagine how difficult it must be when one in addition does not master the language or know the law. This makes these women particularly vulnerable, and I would therefore ask the Council of State to consider measures that can prevent this type of abuse of power, which today is also the result of the law making this possible. Such is the situation today, I think we can at least be held indirectly responsible for this abuse, because we are not doing enough to prevent it. We have to put an end to this, and I hope the Council of State will take an initiative in this area, perhaps in cooperation with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e136	There are two subsequent debates here today that concern the same topic. I want to underline a few essential frameworks that I think should be around such a debate. Firstly, the legislation we are going to have in Norway is to be non-discriminatory. This means that the rules introduced shall apply to both the Nordics, regardless of their ethnic background, and to immigrants. The second is that the conditions we make policies to prevent, that is, those that go on coercion, family honors, part of the consequences of cultural conflicts, can have their roots in two different situations: firstly, there is a problem that there are economic motives, the desire to give others a ticket to the West, either family or for economic reasons. Secondly, there may be profound cultural traditions, such as: the fear that children will become Norwegian, less ethnic. That distinction should be included in the debate, because although the two aspects are mutually reinforcing, my point of drawing this out is that the way in which different changes in the rules are made has to be assessed in terms of combating traditions or purely economic motives. I might think the debate sometimes puts a lot of emphasis on some of these issues, especially the economic motives. The government's starting point in this context is that we should focus on changes that improve the situation of young people with a multicultural background and that we should be on the side of young people in these conflicts. If the cause of the conflicts is first and foremost a ticket to the West, means of blocking access can be the most important. If there are cultural conflicts, precisely such policy complications can exacerbate the problems for young people themselves. In the case of the interference itself, the representative has focused most on the integration work. I'll be allowed to comment on some of the questions raised in the actual interpellation. As a general rule, the Foreign Service Act provides for maintenance for applicants for family reunification. So this requirement has not been removed. When a foreign citizen seeks family reunification with his/her spouse in Norway, it is usually a prerequisite that entertainment is ensured. However, there are exceptions to the maintenance requirement if the person living in Norway has asylum here, is a transfer refugee or has been granted a humanitarian residence permit following an application for asylum. Normally, there is also a derogation from the maintenance obligation for residents who are Norwegian citizens, or when strong human considerations warrant it. Being ‘secured maintenance’, as stated in the law, means that the applicant must be able to support himself or be provided by the person with whom he or she is seeking reunification. Adequate maintenance can be ensured through labour income, pensions or other means. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs assumes that the total income of the applicant and the resident is at least equal to the salary level 1 of the country's wage and salary regulation. It is possible to change the rules and impose conditions for family reunification, such as: as proposed in Document No. 8:50, which is for treatment in Stortinget. In general, such proposals would also make it more difficult for many non-residents in Norway, especially for those newcomers who had an established family life before coming to Norway. I assume that the purpose of taking up the maintenance obligation in this context is primarily to provide clearer dependants for those who have lived in Norway for a long time. I think it's right to review these rules, because practice seems to be much more liberal than what the law actually is. There may also be grounds for making changes. But if we are to make major changes, it must apply to both Norwegian ethnic and minority Nordics. At the same time, we need to ensure that our rules do not force Norwegian youth back to their parents' home country or that strict dependants force young people away from education and working life. There is therefore a need to review the impact of the legislative change before concluding that there will be greater austerity and, where appropriate, how to make such a tightening. That question is working on my department, and we'll look into it and come back to it. In the case of financial penalties to prevent children and young people from leaving primary school for periods spent in their parents’ home country, the training law and the Child Protection Act are applicable. The municipality is responsible for training children and young people under the law. The right and obligation of primary education occurs when the child is likely to be in Norway for more than three months. Section 2-1, fifth paragraph of the Training Act states: ‘If a student has no right to be absent from compulsory training, parents or others who care for the student may be punished with fines if the absence comes from their intentional or reckless actions. Public prosecution is not raised but when the municipality submits such a claim.’ The parents may not be penalised in the event of a valid absence, such as sickness or leave. The municipality may grant pupils freedom from primary school for up to two weeks when it is considered to be sound. The requirement that each leave be sound limits the number of leave that a student may receive during a school year. Penalties are currently the only financial penalty possible under the Training Act. To date, the Ministry of Education and Research has not assessed changes in legislation regulating penalties against parents in primary school. In the case of entitlement to child benefit, it is a condition that the child is resident in Norway. The child is not considered to be a resident of Norway if he or she is intended to stay abroad for more than 12 months or if the child is to stay abroad for more than six months per year. years for two or more consecutive years. In these cases, child care shall be stopped with effect from the month following the exit. The parents of the child are obliged to notify of the foreign residence of children which may affect entitlement to benefits. There is reason to believe that the obligation to notify is not always complied with. The Ministry of Children and Family therefore considers the introduction of better control procedures to prevent the payment of child benefits in connection with foreign residence of children. This work is carried out in consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the National Agency for Social Security. I agree that a prerequisite for the successful integration of immigrants is that they acquire Norwegian skills as quickly as possible to participate in working life, social life and education. All immigrants will be offered Norwegian training when they come to Norway, and most people accept the offer. Per. On 1 December 2000, approx. 22 000 in Norwegian training. The government has started work on introducing compulsory Norwegian training. The introduction of compulsory Norwegian training would stress the importance of Norwegian skills for successful integration that should not be able to opt out of Norwegian training. Parents with good Norwegian knowledge are important for the integration of children. It is also important for parents to be able to play their parenting role in our society. Mandatory Norwegian training will not in itself improve the quality of training or solve the problem of absence and non-response. Both within today's system and within a system of any mandatory training, we have problems reaching immigrants in some environments. How we can solve this, and any sanctions, we need to look at it. It is also essential here to have exemption schemes, including: for old, sick and traumatised refugees. We have set up a cross-ministerial working group investigating compulsory Norwegian training for adult immigrants. This working group will have its position by the summer of 2002, so that we can start work on how to implement this. Social skills are important for those who come to Norway and will live here. This is now integrated into Norwegian training. I think there's room to look a lot more closely at the content of the social knowledge given. In my opinion, attention should be paid to the roles and expectations of our society as well as possible conflicts with children. There are a lot of challenges that we don't normally think about, that meet parents from other cultures. Among other things, I have have been met with questions from some Somali parents who do not know what the food package is, what it should contain, and the fact that children should have food at school. It's important for us to see that when you come from a different background, you have other problems than what we're used to, and what we have a policy for. The more families are involved, the easier it is to counteract condemnative attitudes to our society. I think it will also reduce the level of conflict in immigrant families. Both I and several of my government colleagues have regular contacts with representatives of the immigrant communities, both individuals and leaders of different organisations. There have been several recent meetings, including: imams have been present. I believe that, along with changes in the law, dialogue and cooperation will be the main instrument for achieving results in the long term. At the same time, there should be no doubt that Norwegian laws and regulations apply to all residents of Norway. As part of the process of strengthening dialogue between the immigrant communities, including the religious, the Government will invite to a national conference in August. The aim of such a dialogue conference is to focus on the situation of children, on integration and the problem areas that have been in focus in recent years, and to work together on good solutions, but also clearly tell us what expectations we have. Let me highlight one thing, because interpellation, among other things. points to Muslim leaders. The conflicts and cultural traditions we have seen are not just connected to Muslim environments. In a number of other environments with other religions, such abuses are also taking place. By focusing too much on Muslims, or too much on Pakistani or Somali, we can ignore many young people who need help. We have to include that in the further work. We are also working on an odelstningsproposition on the introduction scheme for newly arrived immigrants. It will be promoted before the summer of 2002. Together with compulsory Norwegian training, this will provide the basis for better integration of the many who marry here and who come here because we need labour. I think we have room to do more in many of the integration areas, but I think we should take the time needed to make sure that there are the problems of youth that are at the heart of the solutions we choose. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e188	First of all, I would like to thank you for the reply from the Council of State. I think she was so wise. Neither do I think we should rush into this debate so that we get out of hand, but we should not have very much patience on behalf of these girls, because many of them are in an emergency situation, and they require action now. Some of it can be fixed by doing something about attitudes, such as: the organisations we have been in contact with tell us about child protection workers who have been unsure about how to deal with a situation of violence against children in an immigrant family, while they would not have been unsure if it had been a Norwegian family. We're not going to have any of that, and they need to know that very quickly. We have part of the code in place, and the council pointed to some of it. The problem is there when it's not used. We know that a lot of kids disappear from schools every year. We know that the schools can do something about this, and that they really should and should do something about it. But it doesn't happen anyway. What we get from people who work with these young people is that nothing happens. And that's what we have to end up with. There I think it would be right to have financial measures, too much of the motivation to send kids out of the country can also be economic. For example, it is cheaper to have a child living in many of these parents’ countries than to have them living in Norway when you get the same amount for the child. SV was very disappointed with the budgeting of the municipal committee last year because it did not want to implement mandatory introduction programmes for people coming to family reunification. This must not be a voluntary scheme, and it must not only apply to asylum seekers and refugees. It must also apply to people who come to family reunion. As regards contact with the mosques, I agree with the Council of State that we should not do this just as a Muslim problem. We should be aware that the abuses we're talking about here are not specific to Muslims; there are also many other communities that are closed, which have many of the same problems. Souls I grew up in a place where there was a big feature of Smith's friends, and where there were many of the same problems because there was an extremely closed environment that was difficult to get in touch with. But what I want the Council of State to assess is, among other things, own marriage registers, which ensure divorce under Norwegian law, are also applicable under Muslim law, so that there is some control over whether there is multi-federal or marriage with children who are actually under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e203	Since there are two interpellations dealing with almost the same topic, I have chosen in my answer to one question, which was the most about integration, to focus on the long-term integration issues, and to return to the more action-oriented actions in the answer to the interpellation that was specifically directed at that question. I must therefore be allowed to come back to some of these things in the response to the interpellation of the representative Apelthun Seele, also because this is a big, complicated and difficult debate. But I want to start by saying something about this with a marriage register of my own. We are now working in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs and in the Ministry of Local Affairs with questions about how to check that divorce is actually a divorce – that you are divorced, that you do not have a bigami problem, that women know it, that women have been informed about it, and that we make sure that marriages are valid. Among other things, in the Ministry of Local Affairs it is linked to bringing in the next wife of the country by remarriage and making sure that the divorce that was made is also valid in their home country. More important than the fact that the divorce is valid in the mosque here in Norway, it is likely that it is actually valid in their home country, so that you can go home and not be considered married there, while you are not married in Norway. However, we are working on all aspects of marriage law. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs said yesterday that one is working on the question of whether one can ensure that a foreign marriage can be better controlled, and sees in different ways to do so. When it comes to the question of going home and economics, I have to say that I have not perceived people being placed in their home country, primarily as an economic question. The problem that often arises is that when parents who have prejudiced Norwegian society, not least the role of women in Norwegian society, experience that their children become Norwegian, they send their children to their home country It is not necessarily the intention to be coerced or to take a cousin home again, but it is simply the cultural challenge that makes it possible to place their children in their home country. It does in a way that only financial penalties do not necessarily face that problem. However, in the case of financial transfers to parents for children, child-restraint benefits are not payable if the child is not in Norway. It should be reported that you are no longer eligible for social benefits, and that requirement for reporting will also provide entrance services to see if you can use it to also review whether this can be forced return, among other things. of young people, related to the question of becoming Norwegian. I fully agree that we have to do things quickly. That is why we have also said that when it comes to how this is going to happen, whether it is an action plan on coerciveness or other things, we must conclude before Easter with the main actions we see, and what areas we are going to work on more. Some of the measures we promise to look at are on the prevention side, and some remain on the crisis response.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e220	The Labour Party believes it is good that the Stortinget is now debating integration policy. There has been too much more focus on UDI, reception and lengthy processing times for a long time. The integration policy itself has come to the fore. The Labour Party believes that many measures, including financial penalties, need to be put in place to improve the success of integration policy. The measures and legislative changes that are put in place must not only be fine on paper. We must also be sure that they work in practice. We're under ban against circumcision and coercion. It is prohibited under Norwegian law. It's an assault and it's to be punished. But nevertheless, there is both circumcision and coercion, and few or no punishment. We need to find stronger tools here. The Workers' Party believes that Norwegian education is the most important tool we have to succeed in the integration work. Therefore, Norwegian education should be compulsory with few exceptions. Action needs to be put in place as both aberration and accommodating. The language test must be performed. Free core time in all kindergartens, as proposed by the Labour Party, also solves the problem of childcare while immigrant mothers take Norwegian education, without this becoming a special scheme for individual groups. The working party believes that just as much as cash support has been an evil for these groups, the single school is a good one and will be the best contribution to the integration of the children. The Labour Party believes that dialogue and cooperation between immigrant communities and the wider community can be much better. But if we're going to do that, we have to stop acting with greater tolerance to these environments than to society else. The law must be equal to everyone. Making a lot of money to create new institutions to do this job now is not the way to go. We need to build on what we have and strengthen it. Crisis centres, health centres, conflict councils and voluntary work need to be strengthened. Unemployment among immigrants is high relative to others. All 75 pst. of the Somalis are unemployed. If we're going to get these numbers down, we need action. In this way, chaos in Aetat and cuts in labour market measures are not useful. Another area is the recognition of training from another country. This approval still takes too much time and is very difficult to obtain. The Labour Party believes that the introduction programme, which has now been tested in 26 municipalities, has proved to be very good. This must be implemented in all municipalities quite quickly, so that all those who are granted a residence permit, not just the quota refugees, are offered such an introduction programme. It provides language training, it provides community training, and it provides work training. It'll cost the state a few dollars in the beginning, but it'll be cheap in the long term. It's urgent to get this in place. We need the workforce that we also get from those who come here, as soon as possible coming to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e239	I have to give the interpellant exactly when she says that the killing of Swedish-Kurdish Fadime has made the integration debate more topical than ever, because this case has been a wake-up call in several environments in Norway, and it has engaged everyone. The integration debate has come into focus and is now a debate that is legitimate. It hasn't been like that, and for different reasons, all parties should go on their own. For fear of discrimination, we have not dared to make the demands we ought to make, and perhaps genius has had too much reason to do so. Today, we are bound to admit that there is a lack of respect if we do not make demands, and that the key to successful integration lies in mutual respect. Respect and tolerance must go both ways and must go both on attitudes and on action. There is no quick response to how to achieve successful integration, nor is there any fascist response. And not least, integration will take time. It'll take time, and the results won't come right away. However, it is important that the integration policy we are pursuing brings together broad support. I'm pretty sure that consensus and firmness from a single greatness would be very desirable in order to achieve successful integration and to get a good society. Attitudes and measures must go hand in hand. One doesn't rule out the other. On the contrary, there is a mutual dependence between attitudes and concrete measures, laws and regulations. Information, information and cooperation are fundamental. "The law must be the same for all," says Signe Eye. And it should be a matter of course, but it hasn't been like that. With regard to the practice we have conducted, it is absolutely unmistakable that it is a great potential for improvement, and this has also been explained by the Council of State. I want to take to heart especially what goes on in our language. That everyone should learn Norwegian, I fully agree with the interpellant in. There is one measure, but it is absolutely fundamental. And there we have in our country conducted a practice in a number of areas that have been far from good. In primary school, children have been taken out of the usual schedule in Norwegian school to give them native language education. So you give native language instruction, but you take it from the usual Norwegian timetable. And obviously that shouldn't be possible. I also ask questions about taking children out of Norwegian school for a long time at a time. Clearly, we have to look at the practices we conduct, and here there is room for improvement within existing laws and agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e248	I had not intended to turn the debate into haughtiness, but I must say that I am a little provoked when the interpellant calls for the Progress Party in this kind of debate because we were absent in one interpellant debate. I apologize to the interpellant because the representative is new, but I would recommend her to go to Stortinget's archive, and in particular go to Innst. S. No 197 for 2000-2001. I also recommend the interpellant to enter Innst. S. No 184 for 1999-2000, she might see where the Progress Party has been in the debate. It has become so that the SV and the interpellant fly very high in the debate. They should respect that, even if it has taken an incalculable amount of time before they have understood the seriousness of the matter. That also applies to the Right, I must say, which allows itself to come to the pulpit today and ask all parties to go in themselves. In the two positions I mentioned in the introduction, the Progress Party has made 30 proposals. Many of these proposals have the other parties, for example: SV, now taken inwards, but it remains to be seen what happens when the Storting has to deal with Document No. 8:50, which is under consideration in the Committee, where the Progress Party has re-examined the proposals and some new ones. It cannot be that these girls – with all due respect – have now emerged, as the interpellant said, who have forced the debate. The debate has been there all along. For decades, the party of progress has tried to focus on possible problems of immigration. We've been put in one and the other booth every single time. Some of our trustees have actually had problems with it, because they have been placed in groups of racists. Now I have experienced being in different debates where the Progress Party has not got one critical word against it, and we are pleased about that. Now I really hope that we take the debate once and for all and do not do as the Council of State now suggests, that we should use time. We don't have time to waste. Now it has to take action. Then we do not need more action plans, and we do not need more assessments – the measures and solutions are there when Document No. 8:50, plus the other proposals which the Progress Party has promoted, will be discussed in the Stortinget. It may not be possible for the Storting to discharge its responsibilities further by spending several years on new action plans and investigations. Seriously, we know that, and we also know the solutions. I really hope when we come to the consideration of these proposals that these representatives too show the same commitment and support the Progress Party in the proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e255	The Council of State answered all the questions of the interpellant except one, and that's what I would like to challenge the Council of State. This is the question of mandatory introduction programmes. I believe that men who have staggered attitudes, such as that the woman's place is on the kitchen bench, or that women are going to remain silent in assemblies, whether they are going to change their attitude or behave differently, it doesn't depend on whether they learn Norwegian or not, whether they can speak Norwegian fluently or not, whether they are Norwegian initially or have a completely different ethnic background. The point is that mandatory introduction programs in all municipalities are something we should have because it ensures that women get an opportunity to learn Norwegian and get an opportunity to integrate into Norwegian society in a way that they might not have had the opportunity to do if they didn't have such an introduction program. The experience from the municipalities that have had the introduction program is very positive. Clearly, it costs money in the first place. But if it can help reduce unemployment and contribute to women – who have been exposed to chicken things in their own home, who come to the crisis centre or to birth control and cannot speak Norwegian, but come with a note that says a few words so that they can get the help they need and have a strong need – can get help to do something about these things, I think it is definitely worth getting to this. When we know that this works, it is incredibly tricky that not all the parties who now say that we have to do something about this jam, this problem we have to grips with jams, have grasped the suggestions that SV has made in relation to the introduction programs, among other things. in the last state budget and earlier, because it is an important proposal. I'm being incredibly provoked by the Progress Party saying, we're acting, we're not a party that just comes up with action plans, we actually have the concrete proposals that do something about the situation. But the Progress Party has been opposed to this proposal, which is perhaps the most effective of all to ensure that Norwegian training is given to the ladies who need it. The progress party has been against this proposal, and then I get furious when they say, "Look, we're so great." Being haughty from the pulpit was able to previous speak well without any help. But I think that is a good suggestion. Now I realized that the Workers' Party has agreed to this proposal to give such introduction programmes not only to asylum seekers and refugees, but also to people coming to family reunification. I think that's a trick, and I'd like to hear what the Council of State has to say to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e262	The killing of Swedish-Kurdish Fadime shook us all. I would like to give tribute to the representative of Thorkildsen, who is addressing a very difficult issue. It's very sensitive, but it's about human rights, especially the protection of women's rights, and in some cases about a very brutal treatment of women. The problem is if, in the light of some abuse, you go into an entire culture and demand a total change in traditions that are not always just of evil. I am not talking about criminal matters, such as the circumcision and coercion and repression of women, but perhaps about a different way of thinking. We know that there are forced marriages, forced abortions of children to their parents' homeland. We have also been shown to intersect. It shows a need for awareness-raising work in some of the Norwegian minority communities. But the rise in the border between coercion and arranged marriages is difficult. We must be aware that the vast majority of marriages in the world are arranged marriages. In many cases they work, but this limit rise is very difficult. I don't necessarily think Odd Einar Dørum is right in that there's always an equal sign between arranged marriage and coercion. The problem is to cope with the rise in the border and to find out in which cases it is a question of coercion. I think it was nice that the representative of Thorkildsen pointed out that no one should make political coins on this matter. It's so hard, and it's problematic to know how to attack it. We have to do something about attitudes, it's been said several times. I think there are limits to what can be achieved by political decisions. We politicians can't regulate everything. We cannot regulate this that immigrants have problems getting into Norwegian environments. I have talked to a lot of families and immigrant children who don't have any Norwegian friends. This creation of attitudes must then apply not only to minority communities but also to Norwegian environments. The imams that come here often come from a completely different reality and carry a completely different cultural understanding. Then we have to work with the imams in the long term. Many of these are willing to do something. But in cases where there has been double communication, it is highly critical. I think we could usefully set up a resource group that could consist mainly of people with a minority background. It is important for such a group to have confidence and to have both cultural and religious competence, as well as competence in pedagogics. And I think that the implementation of different measures under such a group could lead to something positive, and that you can also get dialogue and friendship and build trust over time. I think that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e271	First, the favour of SV, who has raised this debate in the way they have done today. I want to specify four points in the three minutes that the center part has at its disposal. The first one is under the keyword for meeting places. There are both central and local organisations and bodies that are continuously engaged in work that strengthens understanding between different cultures, which enhance respect across different backgrounds. It is paradoxical that in the 2002 budget, applications for different measures were much larger than the majority found to be eligible. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm whether it wants to strengthen this work and thus also to contribute in one field to strengthening integration. Secondly, association with work. The Bondevik I government took the initiative for the introduction program and the introduction service. It is a pleasure that the messages are as good from the trials that we have now. But it is also very important to make sure that they become mandatory, and that they are extended to include family reunification. When you see how important it is to strengthen the integration work among women, when you see how important it is to ensure activity, when you see how important it is that association to work also in very many contexts strengthens integration, you don't have to be out of control. Thirdly, compulsory Norwegian training. Let me underline the importance of this Norwegian training being tested. How can we talk here about compulsory training that does not take into account the fact that people come with a different language background, with different backgrounds, or with different experiences and experiences that no doubt make it necessary for anyone here to have a few hours, for many more hours? Fourthly, the group of single, minor asylum seekers. It is so crucial that these are now given a better start in Norway. What does the state council do there?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e285	I can initially in many ways give praise to both the interpellant and the state councils for neat and sensible posts. I think it's a little important to stress that this is a debate on Norwegian society, and there's a debate in the first row about residents in Norway who are actually Norwegian citizens, even though we had to have different ethnic backgrounds. Norwegian society has changed. We have far more citizens with a different background than the Norwegian ethnic one. There's a lot of reasons for this. And on behalf of the Left, I would like to express our basic opinion that this is desirable, and that we also want for the future to have more citizens in Norway with a different background than the Norwegian ethnic group. We simply need it to solve the work that the Norwegian society is going to have to do. The solutions of the Progress Party are not those of the Left. When the representative Sandberg, like himself, presents a list of things that have been proposed, it is likely that in the list of proposals it could be something that could be reasonably isolated, but rarely in the package and context in which the party presents it. I think it is very important in this debate to keep track of the difference between demands and responses. There is a difference in talking about compulsory Norwegian training — and a test of Norwegian knowledge — and a penalty for being thrown out of Norway, or it goes into other situations. We have compulsory schooling in Norway. This does not mean that if a person does not follow the compulsory schooling, he is sent out of Norway. It has something to do with seeing the relationship between what we want and the penalties we want. I think it is important in this debate to see that it is not only a matter of attitudes and culture of others, but also of attitudes and culture of ourselves, which I mentioned at the outset. We have to be very clear and clear that there are some things we don't accept. Killing is illegal. Murder is punishable – killing is simply wrong. The death penalty, which in some cases almost can be said to be an honorary drop, is also wrong – not least the background for it. You don't destroy healthy parts of your body. Body damage, such as genital mutilation, has always been punishable. And it has to be. This shall not happen. Marriage objectives shall be voluntary to some extent. When I use that formula, it's that we should also be a little aware that there are different backgrounds for marriage – a long jump between them. We have to be able to keep track of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e306	The problem in some of the serious political debates in which we are going to participate is that the underlying issues are so difficult. And that's what the interpellant says: ‘The killing of Swedish-Kurdish Fadime has made the integration debate more topical than ever.’ It's in many ways that we're up against the problem. The debate will be so difficult to address — to see the proportionality and appropriateness of the measures to be taken in its wake. The main problem for us Norwegian politicians is that we only take the integration debate when such tragic events happen. In this way, I am pleased with both the rites of interpellantism and the Council of State, low-level and constructive answers. I experience – after hearing the representative of the Party of Advancement Sandberg here today – that we are really where we have always been. We still have Norway championships in making more or less pointed proposals, which both derail the debate and help to make more distance from the matter and from the environment, to which we actually need communication and proximity. Run from the Progress Party that it is only those who have had and have the saluting recipe – i.e. These 30 proposals – moreover, do not constitute believers. I think the Progress Party should take more responsibility than it saw for more integration work in this country than it does. Please, add your will and make the challenges that this point to, the leader, and not the one that immediately had to win out in the gallop villain that we are, after all, in! It's the gray and the long-term, boring work that benefits, what doesn't create headlines. What will never raise the opinion of the Progress Party, we must encourage others in this debate. There is a knowledge of a day-to-day or – as the representative Meltveit Kleppa said – the knowledge of the meeting places, the knowledge of the common school, the choice of a common school rather than a more private, divided school, which in all directions only cultivates dividing lines, knowledge of work and housing opportunities for all, and knowledge of free core time in kindergartens, which just creates a meeting place, a hub and a social arena for adults and children. And finally, it must be clear that both participation in, attempted and carried out atrocities should be regarded as a purely criminal act. It should be knocked back hard. Not hitting hard back promotes racism and xenophobia, and in this area we're all going to practice zero tolerance. The power apparatus shall be on the side of the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e324	There is one approach to this problem complex that is not commendable. That's the approach that says that now we've thought enough, now we have to act. I think the problem is that we have not thought enough – and at least not good enough. I am therefore somewhat concerned that the interpellant and the participants in the debate do not at all disclose – as far as I have recorded so far – that they are aware that the very concept of integration is unclear and that it is used in many different ways. There has been a difference between assimilation and integration in previous debates on this issue — including in this Chamber. There is a difference between demanding something on behalf of what the interpellant calls the Norwegian big community – as if it were a unique size – to the ‘others’, which are brought together under the term ‘minorities’. There are many types of minorities in this country. In some contexts we all belong to a minority, fortunately. There is not one major community in Norway. Norwegian social scientists have operated for generations on the concept of ‘countercultures’ in a Norwegian society consisting of ethnic Nordics. For the most part, we don't have to end up in the worst of all ditches, that we draw reality as if it were a 'we', that is. the Urn Great Society, and a ‘de’, which are all the minorities that somehow stand out. It worries me a little bit that the interpellant spoke in a way that in my ears sounded unusually authoritarian, on behalf of this very Norwegian big community. Minority parents should be so good that it is in the best interests of their children that the majority of ethnic Northmen at all times think is in the best interests of the children. There is no research to demonstrate that the Norwegian single school — if you like to call it that — or the single school — is a good offer for minority language students. All the research available here in Oslo shows the opposite, that we haven't managed to make this school a good offer for those who start out with disabilities. There is also no research to demonstrate that private schools, whether based on life views or anything else, produce worse results for students than the average for the primary school. On the contrary, in our neighbouring countries that have had such schools for many, many years — both Jewish and Muslim schools — research reports show the opposite, namely that integration is better for those students who attend these schools. Here, I think, the interpellant could well relate to the terrain rather than to its own ideological prejudices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e341	There has been an interesting debate, with many new tones from many here. What I initially want to point out is the hallelujah mood that SV's representatives are now showing. Now, you say in common, don't flip political coins on this, but it's very clear what you're doing, if you're willing to go inside of yourself and see what you're going out with here. I also find it interesting that you want to focus on what the Progress Party has done. It is certainly a fact that the party that has gone the farthest in taking a settlement with the uncultures around is the Progress Party. So you say here today that the tool exists -- we have a code, and most of it is in place. Then my question is, why don't we do something about it? If it's true that we have a tool that lies here, then it's our responsibility to make sure it's put into use. It is the overall responsibility of the various governments that have governed this country. And then at least I end up with the Workers' Party having a significant responsibility that things are the way they are today. And then we're going to look together at what we're going to have to do in the future. A representative from the Workers' Party stated that the single school is a success. There is something that I personally have very doubts about. I don't think the Norwegian school of unity is a success at all. I guess a lot of reports show that what the Norwegian school is known for, not necessarily just quality, although especially the Labour Party might want to believe it. So a representative from the Right said that the killing of Fadime was a wake-up alarm. It's a paradox for me, because why does a killing have to happen before we wake up? How many more must we sacrifice while debating what needs to be done? The most important thing we have to do now is take hold of this. It is not words and words alone that must exist. We have to put these things on the agenda. We have to allow ourselves to talk about what we otherwise think is unpleasant, and which perhaps touches on the personal attitudes of some of us, and that the word genius might have a different meaning. I perceive that the word genius has a negative undertone in these contexts. Maybe we should do something about that. I think accountability and respect are two things that we need to focus on in order to get a better society in an area that is quite touchy to many of us, because it affects us in many contexts, and it affects us very differently. So for integration: Integration is, of course, the key word in relation to whether we're going to succeed. But we have different angles of incidence. We clearly believe that demands must be made and that the requirements must be respected by all. There should be no kind of forgiveness if a lar is to follow up what we want to do. That's why I'm now looking forward to the hallelujah that's here, ending up with some of the creative suggestions that are now coming, that we're taking in what's happened, and that we're jointly putting things in place and getting a society that's overall working better. For today it is undoubtedly not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e363	The representative Sandberg forgot to say that I am not only young, but also a woman, because maybe it also played a role in how the representative Sandberg handled my input instead. In fact, I believe it is relevant to consider what kind of commitment the party represented by the representative Sandberg has shown in terms of violence against women. If the Advancement Party wanted to prove that this is something that involves very strongly at all levels, they would never have gone out and said that women who find themselves a violent Muslim man have a good time to thank, or that the only reason we are going to ratify or incorporate the UN Women's Convention is that we should help other countries to get better at treating their women, and not mention in one word that we have many problems regarding the situation of women in our country as well. I'm almost tempted to challenge the party to take an initiative to get women who are currently in prisons in Jordan, to Norway and let them get asylum here, if they really think this is an important matter. But let's now stop arguing about who's been right, and who's been wrong, and try to be constructive. I would ask for respect for the fact that we believe that the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party are difficult. Some of them I am in favour of. Some of them I have been discussing for many years – from the time I got to know this problem, from when I was much younger than what I am today. But it's part of the proposals that can make bad worse, and I'm primarily concerned with helping these girls and not making it harder for them. If we say we're going to plant all the parents who coercive their daughters, from this country, then the representative Sandberg can be reasonably sure that none of these girls will dry to ask for help, because they're actually happy with their parents. They don't want their parents to be thrown back into a country that they may not have any relationship with, or to an uncertainty about the job situation and other things, plus that they may be exposed to even stronger represals than they are today. So we're going to be careful, but we're not going to be the action lamb. We're not going to say that okay, now we've adopted two action plans, done it, now we've done our job. These action plans are very strongly characterised by long-term measures, which are important but do not help those in an emergency today. We also have to work on that. So I have respect for the impatience shown by the Progress Party. There are several parties that should also be impatient on behalf of these girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e374	It is not the case that this is the first debate on this issue. Four and a half years ago, we had a debate based on an interview I, as a big-time representative, asked about the matter that is being repeated in the media, namely the Nadia case, which has thus formed the basis for us to have an action plan against coercion, and which has also formed the basis for our action. We haven't done enough. Suddenly we admit that we haven't found all the right mechanisms. But we have actually done something, both in terms of prevention and in terms of better preparedness for crisis when things happen. But I think we're going to have a little bit of humility in that these are processes that take time, because we're facing difficult cultural processes. And then it's important for me to say that it's not just about the integration of the children. It's the child's integration that creates the problems, that's where the cultural conflicts arise, but it's the parental integration we need to have a greater focus than what we've had to do today. I will try to answer the question of the law of introduction. I am in the situation that during this year I will live through the department 8 800 refugees in Norwegian municipalities. I have to admit that I would like to have had a mandatory law on the introduction course. But I think that if we decide this in Stortinget and press it in Norwegian municipalities today, then several thousand refugees will be in asylum reception longer than they would otherwise do. It would be a worse offer than if we were to step forward and say that this is voluntary. But if the spirit is so in all the parties in this room that this is what we're going to do, then it's these parties that have municipal government representatives to make sure that you use the law, start the introduction courses and at the same time accept refugees. We have to remember that we have several things we have to solve in the foreign field at the same time. So the question of this introduction law and the introduction benefit is also going to apply to other groups. In principle, we believe it should apply to refugees, and people who are allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, and to those who are family reunited with them, because to them we have a greater obligation. I'm not sure we're going to grant so much rights to those who marry Norway for some reason. But what we're going to do is introduce an obligation to have compulsory Norwegian training, where you also have a sense of community, so that you get part of these role and cultural conflicts. I actually think that expanding to say that everyone who comes to Norway because they're getting married here is going into a mandatory introduction course that makes them not going straight into the labour market, even though they might get a job, that they're going through a pattern like we have for refugees, that's not the right thing to do. I believe that the system created by the introduction programme is a system that should be used to a much greater extent in the future organisation of help to get social clients and others to work. And it's not just immigrants, it's also Norwegian people who have lived on social security and social welfare for a long time. So we're looking at a trace of how we should reorganize our entire social auxiliaries in that context. But I think those who are now very voting in order for this to be mandatory have to see the consequences we can have on other sides of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e387	Then your case no. 1 treatment completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e404	We've heard of Fadime who was shot, and Sara who was suffocated. It must not happen again. But there's a danger if we don't have the power to change attitudes and values and get an integration policy that works. Many can be done with simple grip if the politicians dare, say two immigrant girls, Nadia and Jeanette. The fact that the girls themselves are taking up the fight is perhaps the most important thing. They want to pave the way and give immigrant women the courage to take up the fight in their own culture. But they must have our support and the protection of the police and the auxiliaries. They must be taken seriously. It is clearly dangerous to challenge human society in any of our minority groups. Auxiliaries must be aware of how vulnerable some young people are, and auxiliaries must have resources and systems for both crisis relief and long-term help. I think we popular dares. For them to blame the young people, we simply have to wake up. But the measures must work, that is the most important thing. They must be thoughtful and targeted, so that this does not happen again. The challenges are great. When the population is made up of people with different ethnic, national, cultural and religious backgrounds, a conscious policy is needed to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities to participate in society, equivalent living conditions, security and protection from abuse. What can Norwegian society, public Norway, big business and government, do? Of course, we must increase and strengthen the crisis response. A lot of people don't find out when the crisis is there. Not all immigrant girls are as strong, tough, well-oriented, and brave as those who have stood out in the media. We must admire girls like Kadra, who uncovered the double morals of Islamic imams, and Nadia, who returned to Norway and sued their own parents. But they also have to experience that their victims – for that is what it is – get positive results, so that girls are not sexually injured or compulsive abortions in the future. But not everyone is so tough. Many are common people, and no one is tough all the time. Information and training must therefore reach young people with a minority background through schools, social services, health services. Knowledge is important when the crisis is there. There are many suggestions on the table from the girls themselves, from the party and from resource people. The Christian People's Party also has a proposal that I am asking the Minister for Municipalities to consider when the Department needs to produce a package of measures to help children and women with a minority background. Three-quarters of second-generation immigrant women, at least from Morocco, Pakistan and Turkey, marry a man who lives in these countries. It's actually strange and would hardly have happened if there was no arranged marriage. I hope that most people are voluntary and with their young people, but I think that we are wise to tighten up the requirements of family reunification where marriage is concluded abroad. If the marriage has to be certified or confirmed by an official ceremony at a Norwegian foreign station where a systematic question about marriage is voluntary, we obtain that Norwegian citizens in Norwegian territory can be notified and protected if forced into the picture. It'll seem preventative. Youths are then not entirely left to themselves in a foreign culture in a foreign country and with the family’s supremacy. That's what the attacker wants to know. We also avoid the fact that girls — or young people — are not even present at the marriage. This may be one element or one measure that will minimise the problem of forced marriage. Crisis measures are important. I am pleased that the Government will teach teachers, child protection professionals, health sisters and social workers in order to better support young people seeking help. That's good. It is also very positive that one in this work has benefited from a long-standing competence of the organisation Self-help for immigrants and refugees, called SEIF. Strengthening the existing professional environment is important. At the same time, I believe that new measures are needed. I'd like to invite the Mayor and the Government to listen to the recordings that have come, and to carefully evaluate all the concrete recordings. This applies not least to the measures taken by minority young people themselves. It is also an advantage if the municipal minister takes responsibility for coordinating integration policy, so that she can rightly be called the Minister for Integration. That there are many departments involved, requires that one has a health assessment. Let's admit it: The integration work is not done. It doesn't have to mean assimilation, but it means that one should know what goes on in the Norwegian community. If people are to have dishes, one must also set requirements. It's okay to be nice, but stupid genius is not good for anyone. I think Norway needs to get tougher. I think we need to set some limits on choice. Human rights, democracy and universal values have simply set limits on which choices and actions can be accepted. And that's necessary to secure all a real freedom. Without linguistic and cultural skills, a person living in Norway has no real choice in terms of participation in working life, in politics, in organisational life and in everyday life. The choices are then minimal, and one is to a large extent the prizewinner's closest. Freedom is to have real and decisive influence on own lives. Compulsory training in language and social understanding must be followed up by economic sanctions in the event of absence, but also offers must be good, adaptable and adequate. The language test of children and training in kindergarten is evidence that the Government has a long-term perspective. That's good. The challenge is that the actions will be implemented when one discovers that it is necessary. It is a disease sign that we in Norway have such a crisis-focused approach to the integration problem. Media has forced a debate, I think we have to admit, by documenting issues such as coercion, circumcision and shameful 'honor trap'. That doesn't mean that the debate hasn't been before, but that means he'll be refreshed and seriously drawn right now. And he should have ours here all the time, because the problems are here all the time. They were simply far in the way knowing whether we should be honest. But soon the camera lenses are turning another way, and I'm asking the government to ensure that the work for a better integration is prioritised even in months where the media doesn't force us to act and hold. To ensure that the debate on human rights is kept warm, and to ensure a positive development, I believe that it is necessary to create resource groups, perhaps under the authority of the public, which are responsible for organising debates, seminars and other types of debate in the minority environment. Such a resource group would mainly consist of people with a minority background. I believe this is important for such a group to have confidence. Furthermore, the group must have cultural and religious competence and competence in pedagogics, because there is a major problem in this context. I believe that the implementation of such a measure will be very important, because we need to recognise that the prevention of abuse among minority populations can best be achieved by taking a given in the environment with the unculture that exists there. This is, however, a measure that can be implemented quickly, and there will be no significant financial outlays. It is also important for it to be done. It doesn't have to happen again, I've said several times. But I also feel that I have to say that the minority people in Norway are many. Very many are an integral part of the Norwegian community. Not all people with a minority background need to be integrated, and not everyone needs a specific social security network. The Christian People's Party understands the frustration that minority groups who have not been subjected to either election, coercion or abuse feel when they are nevertheless stigmatised because of ethnicity. That minority youth also often has wise, wise, and loving parents who want their children the best, and who well when they are good for their children, we are notable. Therefore, efforts to combat racism, discrimination and fear of the future, if possible, are perhaps even more important than he has been before. But our knowledge and our lack must not prevent us from doing everything to help those who are the victims of cultural or religious insanity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e440	I agree with the representative Apelthun Seele when she says that we must prevent such things, i.e. killed on Fadime, shall happen again. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are facing such strong issues, among others. cultural forces that I have publicly admitted that we cannot guarantee that this will not happen again or that it will not happen in Norway. This recognition must be a sign that the work against these abuses of youth rights is and will be a high priority, even when the public spotlights in the media are subdued somewhat. But we have to work on young people's own premises. The main instrument of the Government's work is the three action plans we have. It is the action plan against gender mutilation, it is the action plan against coerciveness, and it is the action plan ‘Violence against women’, which not only has to do with minorities but has to do with everyone. Through these we have both preventive measures and concrete emergency measures. At the same time, of course, general integration work is the most important framework for everything. Through better integration, we can help mitigate conflicts due to a greater understanding of Norwegian society. I want to go through the main work and the status of the three action plans. The action plan against gender mutilation is a result of the cooperation of six departments. The follow-up to the action plan is carried out under the auspices of a three-year national project. Information and communication measures are being developed for different groups, both for public sector employees, service and ancillary services and for the groups affected by the problem. There will be a comprehensive course activity and other schooling beyond 2002. The project also has a local component in Oslo, where efforts to combat sexual mutilation are to be included in a larger effort to identify the needs of the target population and the general situation and the health of women and children in particular. Here the approach will be more comprehensive and provide a good opportunity to focus on women’s and children’s rights. This work is not about individual interventions but about broad and long-term work. In 2000, a counselling centre for health professionals was set up to tackle gender harm, and in 2001 a round table of legal issues related to the problem was sent to all health professionals in the country. Closer consideration will now be given to the need for a legal right to medical treatment after sexual mutilation. At local level, there has been a start on training activities on gender impairment for health professionals and, as a follow-up to the Health Inspectorate, a more systematic schooling scheme is to be developed. Recent proposals have been made to introduce a check on children before and after entry into the country in order to detect genital mutilation. A similar proposal was also made by the representative Carl I. Hagen last year, and the Stortinget rejected a requirement for regular and mandatory health testing of girls. I think we need to be very careful about how we deal with this problem. Such repeated checks may in themselves be a burden on young people and women. However, it must be clear and unambiguous that promoting and carrying out such interventions as are at issue here is contrary to fundamental human rights and is punishable in Norway. At the same time, we are totally dependent on having a dialogue with the environments concerned to prevent young women from being sexually mutilated and to be able to provide rehabilitation treatment to those who have been exposed to it. We have deliberately chosen a cooperation line rather than a confrontation line in this work, which I believe is essential to bring about a change and not to risk, for example. The same women and young girls are dumped in their home countries because they feel so provoked by developments in Norwegian society. The action plan against coerciveness is the most active plan. This plan has two main objectives. One is to prevent forced marriage, and the other is to help and support those who have been subjected to it. Funds have been allocated to a number of organisations for work in the relevant settings. Some organisations have also seen the public sector as an important target group for education and have arranged courses for this group. Different information material has been developed which is sent to all counties, municipalities, county councils, colleges, relevant organisations and others, with a call for the use of the material in their activities. In addition, an information telephone is established against forced marriage at the Oslo Red Cross. Young people calling the information phone often need assistance in a wider area. Young people will receive advice and guidance on relevant auxiliary services. There is also a sheltered housing for young women with a minority background who have been or are at risk of being married by coercion. I want to stress that some of the things that those who work in the field with these questions are discovering are that these problems are complex. These are cultural conflicts and generational conflicts across a wide range of cases. Therefore, it has been found that working only in relation to forced marriage often becomes difficult, because one has to deal with a much wider context of generational problems in the minority communities. The school is an important focal point in which issues of violence, coercion and sexual mutilation should be debated. In addition, teachers are central to identifying possible forced and violent situations and have a role to play in channelling the needs of young people into adequate relief measures. The learning centre has been asked to follow up adopted action plans. Similarly, universities and colleges are encouraged to include the themes in their curricula. We are aware that many auxiliary workers, such as child protection, social affairs and the police, do not have the skills to deal with the issue of forced marriage in a good enough way – yes, not just forced marriage, we lack sufficient knowledge and competence about different family conflicts and problems that young people may experience in relation to their own family. A recent cooperation with two central organisations on the systematic schooling of public institutions in the larger cities has therefore been established. The first seminars will be held in each of Oslo's urban areas between February and June. The objective is to increase the level of competence of service providers in order to assist young people in need of support and concrete assistance in order to avoid a situation of coercion and violence. Action plan against forced marriage expired at the end of the year. The work has been evaluated, and we are now working on the follow-up. The evaluation was published yesterday. It shows that a number of things have happened, but it probably also reveals that we need a broader and more offensive work, among other things. in relation to the established auxiliaries. I also think it is important to have a better geographical coverage of the help services. There is a lot of activity concentrated in Oslo, but we also have many minority communities in other parts of the country. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has the primary responsibility for the follow-up, but works closely with the Minister of Justice and myself, and we will continue to cooperate on this. We are not satisfied with everything that has happened, and we are not satisfied with the level of what has happened. We know that we need to make greater efforts in the years to come, and we need to find new measures. But something has been done, and we've got an experience mass. And for those who are concerned about this debate, and who might want to look at what the youth himself thinks, I would recommend reading the 150-page evaluation, where you have gone through the problems and talked both with the youth and with those who have helped, to know what dilemmas they are facing. And it's clear that one of the biggest dilemmas they have is that they're actually happy with their parents, and that part of the punishment mechanisms proposed might work against their purpose. The ‘violence against women’ action plan was presented in 2000 and, as a follow-up to it, local projects have been implemented with the aim of contributing to better multidisciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation to assist victims of violence and abuse, including women and children with a minority background. Projects aim to develop models for how municipalities can more effectively strengthen their efforts to combat violence and abuse, as well as provide assistance and assistance to victims of violence. We now have a separate system of violent alarms for those at risk. A test scheme for the use of outdoor alarms will be in place from February this year. Furthermore, the Government now proposes that persons exposed to serious threats be given the opportunity to modify personal data, i.e.: to use fingertips. In addition, changes to the criminal law have been made to protect persons from menacing and harassment. Further strengthening of the rules is being undertaken to increase the impact of the visitation ban. It is important that we have good and effective legislation, with laws adapted to the reality of the day. However, laws also need to be enforced, and some of the legislation is currently of such a nature that it may be useful to evaluate the wording more closely. We got e.g. an explicit ban on female genital mutilation in 1995. This does not mean that the offences were not punishable in the past. Similarly, we have criminal provisions that regulate forced marriage, but we might need a clearer legal text. This is what the Government will look at. I would also like to look into the Foreign Affairs Act and how it is handled, in order to better understand what practices are like for those who invoke gender-based persecution. In addition to good regulation, information, guidance and training for both the auxiliaries and the groups concerned are at the heart of the work. We need to focus on communication, dialogue and mediation to ensure that those women and children who are victims of abuse receive the help they need. There are many organisations and crisis centres that are making a formidable effort in this area today, and at the local level we see that interdisciplinary groups of professionals are being set up to address the problems on behalf of their sectors, so that it is possible to act quickly when the situation requires it. To me, it is clear that alongside the important work of non-governmental organisations, we need a greater multicultural competence in our ordinary auxiliaries. A better knowledge of the cultural background of ethnic minority groups is needed to help young people. It's not just coercive issues with a focus on marriage or sexual mutilation you need to know about, but the whole potential of the generation conflict. The mediation mechanism must be strengthened and laws and rules relating to different parts of the alienated area reviewed. Furthermore, the main challenge will be to change attitudes of those behind the abuses. It is also important that we do so, but positions cannot be adopted. It is not that in this room you can create changes in people's minds, they are created in individual environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e478	I thank you for a good and comprehensive briefing from the Minister of State. I believe that long-term measures to build up the skills of auxiliaries are essential. Crisis centres are good, but it is important that young people in crisis do not have to find their way on their own. So we need an assistive device with a holistic approach to these challenges. I believe that one of the main challenges facing you in the field of integration is to get a holistic and long-term perspective on work, because action needs to be taken. Many of these will cost money, and then we know in this room that it will take time. But if we neglect these tasks, the consequences for individuals and society will be dramatic for years to come. That's why this is important. This applies to six departments, said the Council of State – at least six departments are involved until now. It shows that we need what I proposed: a Council of State responsible for coordination. I hope it can be the Minister of State. It is the Minister of State today, and it should be made more precise. It is necessary to prevent circumvention or tampering, not just to detect them. It is necessary to increase competence – I fully agree with the Council of State – but also to gain confidence in the immigrant environment, so that they themselves can take a specifier with an unacceptable unculture. Only change holds, creates a security for everyone, and it takes time at least. I know that law creates a hold, but it also needs a dialog to implement the laws, so that they become active. I'm very pleased with what the council said that we might need clearer legal texts, they shouldn't be difficult to understand, and I'm also glad that she addressed the problem of gender-based persecution. This is not a Norwegian, Nordic or Scandinavian problem, it is a world problem. Suppression and abuse of women and young people cannot be accepted. This is a problem not only for us in this hall and in this big one, but for an entire value. We can't solve all of these problems, but at least we can sweep for our own door.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e491	Let me just say something to a couple of the suggestions that were mentioned in the interpellant's articles. Firstly, the question of marriage and possibly a public sanction for it or a foreign ceremony is now under consideration. In this context, some problems related to international law and the acceptance of other countries’ legislation in relation to marriage may be encountered. What we are very concerned about, and with which we have started in some embassies – and which I think we now have to work for in several embassies, because there is too much focus on some ethnic groups and too little on others – is that there are conversations in the embassies, and possibly in the UDI, with the individuals involved individually, in order to reveal and possibly inform whether it is forced into the picture. Some of the thinking behind the representative's proposal will be taken with us in the further work. But there are a number of things we need to update, also in relation to international human rights. The right to marry whomever you want, freedom of choice, is the fundamental human right in the fight against forced marriage, but it is also the right of those who live in Norway to marry someone from their home country. It must be borne in mind that there is a mutual human right in these areas. The U.D. has worked for a long time on issues related to forced marriage and has had a massive increase in the competence of the work carried out within the Action Plan against Forced Marriage. Then there's a question of who should coordinate, and how to do the work. I think we need to look at two different co-ordinations. One thing is the question of which department is going to coordinate the work, and how we're going to do it in terms of part of the internal organisation of a government – which the government usually gets to operate with itself – but I think it's right that a push environment is needed to engage in a dialogue with the immigrant communities. In fact, some of the organisations we have supported have just had that role. A group like the Islamic Women's Group has worked a lot to push the debate on Islamic grounds in relation to the mosques and environments. They have credibility in the environments, and that's important. If a few dialogues are to enter the least integrated areas, we need to have people with credibility in the environments that contribute to the pressure. But then we also have to make some stricter demands. We need to review what requirements we need, for example: provides for those who come here as imams, i.e. those who come here as religious leaders, and what we may have to do with them in acquiring knowledge of the Norwegian community. It was a working group which presented proposals in 2000 for some reviews of the social benefits of religious organisations and such demands. This work is now being followed up by the Minister of Culture. We also need to ensure ourselves against the kind of attitudes that have been expressed from some imams in relation to Norwegian society, so that they don't rely on insensibility, but based on the fact that you know something about Norwegian society. What they have expressed does not only offend some of us as women, but it creates even stronger prejudices among parents and therefore greater conflicts with their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e504	There's going to be something similar between this interpellation and the previous one. However, in terms of prevention of abuse and coercion against women, this is an important and long-term debate. But until we reach our goal, to prevent these abuses, it's clearly very important that we have an assistive device that works. Killer, genital mutilation, coercion, expulsion, etc. shall be prohibited under Norwegian law. It is simply not accepted, and it is to be punished in line with crime. It is now the case that women with a minority background in line with all other women have their rights in Norway. It is also true that women's rights have come because women have fought for this for decades. It must also be in the immigrant environment. There must also be a willingness among immigrant women to be integrated into Norwegian society. Because if we don't get that dialogue and that will, we'll never succeed in integrating. We also have to be careful to believe that the minorities are a homogeneous group. They're like all of us, they're different, they have different needs and different requirements. That's why we have to go into the groups that need it the most, although it can often lead to a pre-distribution. There is a greater need to identify the target audience and its needs and tailoring initiatives, rather than using mass communication – then I think we're just shooting at goals. Many immigrants come from low-resource families, and they are not trained to establish a social network. Therefore, it is so difficult for them to get in touch with others. We need to increase knowledge among women first and foremost, I think. However, participation must take place in cooperation with the immigrant communities all the way, from identifying issues and problems, understanding and analysis to designing and implementing measures. I'm not sure if the Progress Party is so concerned about it. But if we're going to look at some measures, it's clear that schools and health centres need to be central to information and assistance for the girls. Staff must be trained to provide information, including to parents. Changes in attitude are important. We need to see this from a human rights perspective and not from a cultural and ethnic perspective. There are many other measures that I do not have time to come up with now, which I expect the Council of State to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e517	The last few years of uncovering the problems of young women with a minority background have given us a shocking insight into a culture that completely ignores the most fundamental human rights. And when the political parties in the cold water of these revelations throw themselves into the debate, I have the impression that they have been more concerned with promoting as much as possible, and partly with little thought, rather than being constructive and solution-oriented. I am provoked when Per Sandberg of the Progress Party in the previous interpellation debate, like many of his party traps, rises above the other political parties and claims that the Progress Party has been the only ones who have taken the integration debate seriously. This is what we said, the Progress Party expresses in the debate about these serious societal problems, does not surprise me. But I have to ask two questions: is it the Progress Party that has gone in the head to unite and be a bridge builder? Or is it the Progress Party that has helped to create greater contradictions in the multicultural society in which we live? I think it's time we started talking to these environments where actually these abuses are part of the culture, instead of just talking about them. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim’s proposal for measures to prevent forced marriage in the immigrant communities also once again shows that the Workers’ Party’s response to major and serious social problems is an easy-to-use solution such as various legal bans. It is naive to believe that proposals to ban marriage between siblings will solve these challenges and help all the young women who are under pressure and threats from their neighbors. I want to commend the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on her approach to these problems. She has taken the initiative in dialogue and bridge construction and wants to cooperate with the environments in which forced marriage and sexual mutilation occur. Unlike the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, which have immediate action in response to these challenges, I am pleased that it is working in the long term to overcome the attitudes underlying the abuses that are taking place. It will provide the best results in the long term, but at the same time it is important to take immediate action to help young women who have already been treated inhumanely. The actions contained in the Action Plan mentioned by the Minister provide a good basis for raising the level of competence and raising awareness of the bodies that meet women and children at risk on a daily basis. It is important to have a device that is capable of detecting possible abuse and which gives confidence to young women and children to seek help. The right believes that this will not only be solved by immediate action, as the Progress Party claims, but that it is equally important for attitude work, and we all have a responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e536	I'll just as easily provoke the Right in the kind of debates that I do of the Left. They merely reveal their old faith and insight into this matter by placing the Progress Party by accusing us of having a completely different agenda. I agree with the inter-pellant in one thing – but it is personal – and it is that we must have overall responsibility, that is, that we must put in place a Minister for Integration. It's clear that when someone assigns responsibility over as many departments as one does, we're not going to ignore the fact that it also prevents putting the cabinet in place, to put it straight out. So here at least I have a personal intention that we can put that in place sooner or later. The Progress Party has never called for any of the action plans that have been adopted. But what we have said, it is that we believe that these action plans are much more about repair than about prevention, and I think the evaluation will show that as well. For this reason, the Progress Party has been very concerned, in parallel with adopting action plans and preventing them in this way, to put in place different measures that directly interfere with the root of the matter. That is why, for many years, the Progress Party has been promoting a number of proposals, and we have seen several proposals that have been on the verge too, but we have believed that this has been necessary to address the problems that we have. The basic problem is that we are not able to eliminate the traditional thinking of the first generation through, among other things. the interpellant points out that second-generation immigrants in Norway are seeking eczema from their home country. That means they're going back to Norway and they're picking up immigrants with old-fashioned thinking, and then we can't turn our minds around. We have the same problem with the imams, who come here and stay under the special competence rule. Now that we've found out what attitudes these imams have to the Norwegian community, it's also a fundamental problem. And then, at Stortinget, we have to show responsibility and at least do something about the two things. That is why the Progress Party has proposed what some call love questioning. We have understood from the Minister of State that it is fully possible to practice it today. At least then we have to make sure to get it into practice. Another problem is this with health tests of small kids. It has to be in place, because then I think we'll be able to do something about the attitudes too in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e547	I think it is important in the strong debate that is now taking place that we are aware that the conflicts will probably increase in the future. They will probably increase both in the families where young people now have the courage to settle, and they will probably also increase between the Norwegian majority population and the minority population. We can risk increasing racism. I think it's very important for us to have that starting point. I think the most obvious and important thing that Norwegian society can do now is to have an auxiliaries that are ready at the moment one of these young people dares to step forward and say, "I have a problem." Because what we know is that then there are so many of them, and for those who ask for help, there is almost no way back, at least that road will take many years. And then it's of course important that the help they get happens on the premise of the young people, that is, that there's not a type of auxiliaries that take over to them and know best. But at the same time, that auxiliaries have to be completely bottom-solid at the moment you want help. The second important thing is that Norwegian society is very clear that violence against women and young people is unacceptable, and that we should provide protection against it. I think the interpellant sail might also be able to look back a little bit in its own backland and see that such attitudes that we now experience, which have either cultural justification or religious justification, they exist everywhere, also in Norwegian society. Women's views are also practised in Norwegian communities, which are unacceptable and which have to be defeated. That's also why SV is critical, not to the pedagogics of all private schools, because much of it is good, but to the Christian schools that are just based on such views, and which are based on the same isolationist and sévinistic thinking in relation to opening up to others. Then I want to spend the rest of my time on one action, which I think is perhaps the most important thing to get going quickly, and it's foster home for those young people who now choose to break out. I think it's hard for us to understand how total and fundamental the breakup of the family is in some of the cultures this is about, because they have a different structure than us. And being completely alone, not having a family, not having a social framework around them -- maybe being placed in an institution or being left to each other, as some of these young people become -- is not a good situation. So getting foster homes in place as soon as possible, ready for the young people who are now awake, I think, is the most urgent need now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e558	Norway has been a multicultural society since its formation. Here it has bided the North, the Samar, the Women and the Roman people, to teach some. History of the treatment of many of these by the large community shows that we have made many abuses and mistakes in relation to several minorities. It should encourage us to be mild in relation to how we tackle today’s situation – and in relation to the fact that we have the solutions we have written here. In other words, more recent immigration from outside the Nordic countries has given a new and expanded content to the topic of ‘a multicultural society’. My claim is that we in Norway have not fully addressed the challenges that the objective of an integrated and harmonious society will entail. When the population is more made up of people with different ethnic, national, cultural and religious backgrounds, a policy is needed to secure everyone, and that is what we must constantly work for – equal opportunities for participation in society, equal living conditions, security of everyday life and protection against abuse. Many of the discussions in recent times have been based on religion and culture. Religion and culture are important to most of us. Of course, we must take care of the individual’s right to religious freedom. Of course, it must be the law for all religions to claim that all their young people should primarily find one in their own cultural circle, in their own religious circle. What becomes totally unacceptable is the day on which a person uses selected or other measures to achieve this. Hence, there is reason to challenge both the school system and the cultural system within all religions to address just this with imams and others. A directive is mandatory. But I must strongly distance myself from Andersen's claim that this is generally the case in all religions. In history, there are many things we should ask for forgiveness for. When it comes to the current situation, it is a crude claim to say that the choice is taken into account as an instrument in, for example: Christian contexts, and tying up some Christian freshulars in this context, are well behind goals. On the other hand, I wrote down many of the measures mentioned by the representative Andersen, and the way she described the problem. That's why I'm sorry for the outrage she had here. Otherwise I'll refer to the interpellant's suggestions, which are good, and I'll give praise to the municipal minister. I think she'll be able to deal with the problems in a good way, and I want her and the other six councillors to close down with the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e571	First in all friendship: in the last few months, the Christian People's Party in Stortinget has our striking silence when it comes to issues of both refugee, asylum and integration policy. It is good that Anita Apelthun Selle now takes the initiative that she is doing, and looks at the searchlight on difficult and important challenges ahead. There is a clear need both for a review of today's supply and for listening to the suggestions made by the immigrant community itself, and for those who are working on these issues to focus on. The orientation of the Councils shows that more action is being taken. We in the Centre Party give her our support when it comes to strengthening the dialogue with the concerned immigrant environment to secure the position of women and children, and it will also receive our support in the follow-up to measures that ensure better health care for women and children than today. Then I will again call for a stronger commitment to stimulate those organisations, centrally and locally, that are working to secure more and better multicultural meeting places. Last April, the then State Council Brustad, by a broad majority in Stortinget, was asked to carry out a review of the legislation that protects against gender-based persecution, based on a recognition that several individual cases showed that practices were not consistent with the law. Where's the cause? So I can't fail to comment on Per Sandberg's somewhat insulting attitude in both the previous and this interpellation debate. When the Storting disputed the protection of women exposed to gender-based follow-up, the Progress Party found it necessary to enter into the setting that the Progress Party would oppose the introduction of gender-based follow-up in own countries as a basis for protection. This is one of several examples of the fact that the Progress Party itself has excluded itself from constructive action. I also thought that Sandberg's posts today were very important. It is a fact that there are ethnic Norwegian men who are now leaving for other countries and are getting married, from Thailand, the Philippines and Russia. Some of them suggest that even more women need protection in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e585	The starting point of the debate is related to dramatic events that have occurred recently, concrete actions that we all find totally unacceptable. But I think that maybe we should also have the perspective that is linked to the dramatic events of September 11th last year, and that it is actually part of the background and the underlying of the debate that we have. In this context, I think that some of the serious things we're going to take inwards, is the perspective that the representative Karin Andersen initially drew up, that there is a great danger that there may be greater conflicts and more heavy conflicts in the near future, the next few years, than we may have had in the years behind us, and some of our task is actually to be involved in trying to prevent it, or to reduce it. Having a debate based on as dramatic a relationship as a killing can open up for insight, but I think we should also be a little bit aware that it can somehow shut down, if we kind of do exactly what's related more directly to that action, to a main question, without being able to put it into a perspective that says that here we've had the problem 10 years back in time, 20 years back in time, and we're going to have the problem 10 years ahead in time, 20 years ahead. So we have to be able to see it in a larger context. I think that some of what we're going to take inwards is that in Norway there are some closed environments, partly because those within these environments with a minority background want it, but perhaps also a little bit because our own society and our own way of meeting them can act like a fence. It can also help to place them in an environment and make it more difficult to achieve sensible integration, which does not mean assimilation. There's also an important point in this. In fact, the right to live in ways within the Norwegian state other than what we have perceived to be the right one must also be present. But in that perspective, there might be one relationship that I particularly want to bring out, namely the right to break out, the right to free themselves from their own cultural background, without necessarily having to break it. At the same time, it's really important to try to give the opportunity to do this with being able to break with the sides of a culture without having to leave the whole environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e594	It is an important and difficult debate that the interpellant here addresses. The debate is important because it affects fundamental rights, fundamental human rights and principles in our society, and it is difficult because it is difficult to identify sensible actions that work and that reach them. In this debate, I believe it is important to assume that coercion, sexual mutilation, expulsion and other forms of coercion and harassment of women are totally unacceptable, regardless of religion and background. The rights of women clearly need to be strengthened in Norwegian society. It is important that primary health services, schoolwork, religious communities and the police are able to deal with these kinds of events. It's about knowledge, humanity, resources and clarity, but it's also about real dialogue with the people involved, and we have to avoid confrontation to a large extent. In such cases we're talking about here, it's not just the girls' seas, but first of all the parental regeneration and their environment. It is obvious that we have failed in integration policy, when many who have lived here for many years, do not dominate Norwegian. Often, there are women who have not been given the opportunity to learn Norwegian, and the reasons can probably be very many. But one obvious reason is that there is no economic incentive for these women to go on Norwegian courses, rather on the contrary. In the past, there were many examples of good practice in which women could attend Norwegian courses a few hours a day while children were in kindergarten or kindergarten. Such arrangements have largely come to an end after the cash support was introduced, as they helped to make these women pay for the price, while they also had to pay several thousand kroner a year of cash support, which they then lost. I think there should have been schemes in place in which women participating in Norwegian courses, who then become better able to follow up their kids in Norwegian society, were rewarded. As I said, it's a difficult debate, and I don't think anyone has any simple hocuspocus solutions. That's why I think we're all going to take time to think about what possible measures exist and how they're going to go out over time. The only thing I'm sure of is that we have to listen to the minority communities and those that apply. The recent debate has focused on minorities, and it is important that this happens, but at the same time we must not present it as if there is no abuse and oppression of women in Norwegian ethnic environments. I hope the representative Apelthun Soule with the same zeal and experience will take the debate with the most fanatical and closed Christian environments, where women in no way have the same rights as men.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e609	Interpellation is about a deep serious problem, and it is about current events that everyone of course responds to. In such situations, it is always easy to get into the ditch – to different edges. And there are a lot of ditches you can get into when you want to step into this problem. One is the last speaker affected at the end: creating a reality picture as if the problem of violence were a minority problem. I'm afraid it's not. The practice of violence in Norwegian society is a majority problem, and most of the violence perpetrated is not entirely religiously motivated, either Christian or Muslim or otherwise. It is a highly secularized form of violence, and most of it is under the influence of alcohol. A reasonable balance should be maintained in the description of reality when discussing the issue of violence in today's Norwegian society. It is also a fact that the vast majority of killings committed in this country are actually committed in relation to close family members – nor is it killing in the minority population. To address the specific problems associated with the cultural background, a proper picture of the scale of the problem in relation to society as a whole must be drawn in today's Norway. Secondly, the question has to be asked when predicting that cultural conflicts will increase in the years ahead: what is the basis for such a forecast? And who is responsible for increasing cultural conflicts? Is it per. define those which have a cultural background different from that of the majority of the indigenous population in Norway, or can it be thought that it is the majority population’s way of dealing with the whole thing that is the main cause? It is easy to fall for the temptation to resort to spectacular, action-oriented measures to appear to address current problems. And then it's even easier to get into the worst of all ditches, that's a kind of surrender policy about who's the most action-oriented, and who's been able to make the most proposals. It is not the most important issue in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e622	The representative, Mr Gjul, pointed out that this was a difficult debate, and the debate here has clearly shown this. The debate on the instruments themselves is completely absent. Cooperation between several government councils is being discussed to put in place new action plans, before actually implementing and seeing the impact of previous action plans. I must say that the petition was reasonable when the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa came to the pulpit and said in his statement that the Progress Party does not take this seriously, and indicated that we would not agree that gender persecution in our own country should be the basis for protection. Let's take a simple example: in Afghanistan, there is the use of cans and the ban on working and going to school for women. It's actually female oppression and persecution. Does that mean that the Stortinget believes that all of Afghanistan's women who feel that they must use burka should actually be protected in Norway? Then we're on completely wild roads. Rather, let's look at what kind of instruments we actually need to use, and what the Progress Party has mentioned earlier. If sexual mutilation is found in school health studies, what should one do in those cases? Should it not be reported because it is actually a criminal act? You can't then hide behind medical confidentiality. These are things that have to be punished, it's only in that way that we can do something. The party of progress has created problems, some of them in this room are trying to express themselves. Yes, the representative from the Right even used his entire post at the Advance Party! Then it is not strange that nothing happens in this case. Then you push the problems away and don't take the problems seriously. We have to try to figure out what to do. And the Progress Party will soon be the only party in this Chamber that has proposed a number of different measures against this, apart from these so-called action plans to be followed. The action plans themselves do not solve the problems. We need to get measures, and measures like monks. The first action is the accountability of this group. Finally, the representative was on the pay side: who is responsible for any increase in cultural differences? Well, it has this hall, because it is this hall that has completely lost control of immigration into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e637	Thanks for the good input from both the municipal minister and other participants! "The level of conflict will increase," said Karin Andersen. I think she's right. Choices against women are unacceptable – of course it is. That's the point. Then Karin Andersen says that one must also turn the criticism against own rugs. I'm assuming that she means our common rug. And, of course, we're going to fight the fight against violence, violence, women's abuse, porn and prostitution in our own countries – women's degrading everything, wherever it goes, and regardless of foundation. I have understood that the Christian People's Party and SV have been a lot in line there. Norwegian society is not perfect, but in some areas we are actually better off than our fellow sisters in other communities. Otherwise, I'm going to go all the way to Inge Wohnning's inauguration of each authority in our society. When it comes to fresh air, I see them as good, positive scales that prevent bullying and promote independent thinking. We don't have to knock the baby out with the bath water, and that applies to all of these things. Integration involves giving people a place in society, it involves rights, it involves obligations. ‘We must have a social contract that obliges everyone: authorities, immigrants, others’, says Unni Wikan. Yes, I think it is important to create a common platform that is mandatory. The Christian People's Party believes that we need a holistic policy that gives immigrants opportunities for self-respect, and it also often brings social respect. The alternative is marginalisation and stigmatisation. Participation in the labour market may be the strongest integration factor we have, and therefore it is not necessary to accept that healthy immigrants become social clients and social security recipients. It must also not be accepted for other groups. It's disrespectful not to set human requirements. Being a fool isn't really a good idea. In a report on TV from Yemen yesterday, Tom Kristiansen said that in the queen of Saba's country, women were not present, not as ornamented entrance. Development is not always going forward. Women in the queen of Saba's land have lost most of their scandals. The human society in the immigrant community has a strong tendency to marginalise its women. The big community must not accept that. The government must therefore take seriously the integration, so that Fadime's death is not without consequences. We have a duty to honour the memory of Fadime, and I hope that this debate has contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e654	We have now had a long debate on women. I would like to remind you that there are boys who are exposed to the same strong mental pressure. A fairly large proportion of those who contact the auxiliaries are young boys who feel the same kind of pressure, but perhaps not the same kind of violence. Some of the recruitment for crime, including: among young people, and uprisings among immigrant youth may also be attributed to these conflicts at home, and where some of them report entirely out of the family community, because the conflicts become so large. I want to underline one more thing: in the work we are now going to do, we must not just focus on the physical violence. The most important thing here is often the psychological violence. That's the threat of being excluded from their family and not having further contact that has a disciplining effect on people, young people who have grown up in a much stronger family society than we have. The family means a lot more, and they have a lot fewer points of contact outside. We must focus on the mental discipline of our parents for their children, we must not just think of violence in the form of physical violence. This is why it is so important that we have more contact points for young people to reach. Although I am from the same party as the Inge Wohnning representative, I believe that Karin Andersen is right in that the conflicts are going to increase. Several people will dare to break out when the debate is as strong as it has been, but it will also be because we are just getting more first-generation Nordics, there will be more children of immigrants now coming into the current age, and we are a more multicultural society. Then there will be more people who are going to need help. So to the question asked by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, about gender-based persecution. We come up with an odelsting proposal related to some changes in the Foreign Affairs Act. We are going to come back to that matter, among other things. to have a further prescription home. So a little bit to the debate in this debate – on the excellence of the Progress Party or the lack of excellence: it is not, therefore, as the representative Nesvik said, that gender-based persecution is about persecuted women who have to go with a veil. It is a question of whether a woman who has been exposed to the threat of austerity in her home country has the basis for obtaining political asylum in Norway. The Progress Party said no to that, and it's a little double moral, I think. So to the question of whether we're prohibiting marriage between cousins and cousins. For me, it's just a paradox, because that's not where you have to start on the question of coercion. There are many reasons why fats and cousins are problematic, not least in relation to the health of their children, and inbreeding. But then we get married quickly. We can't go along with the law if we don't sort of get to grips with culture and attitudes in advance. I agree that we have to imagine a social contract. I believe that the dialogue conference to which we are inviting in August could form the basis for a platform of the social obligations we have – that is, both the Norwegian big community and what we are going to demand from religious and ethnic minority groups in Norway in the integration work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e674	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e687	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: right 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e696	Many children are born annually in Norway with severe hearing impairments. In order to recover and stimulate the small amount of hearing that the child often has, rapid treatment is important. The treatment consists of operating in cochlea implants to enable the child to perceive sounds and develop speech and language. Treatment provides an increased quality of life and prospects for a much better provision of school and education, as well as future job opportunities. The earlier the child gets surgery, the better the result can be. The treatment of hearing impaired with cochlea implants is a multi-regional function, shared between the Rikshospitalet and Haukeland hospitals. The National Hospital has the national function of treating children by this special method, and it is the Rikshospital that performs most of the cochlea implant operations. During the autumn of 2001, very many children were waiting for treatment because the Rikshospital treated far fewer patients than expected. At the same time, it was claimed that the Rikshospitalet has sufficient competence and capacity to perform treatment, but that the reason was a lack of implants. In other words, the problem was economics. Cochlea implants are expensive and follow-up is also resource-intensive, but treatment is regardless of whether one compares with resources otherwise devoted to training in the deaf environment, education in the deaf, use of deaf interpreters, etc. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, indicate that from 2000 better funding for particularly costly implants was introduced into the intervention-driven funding scheme, including cochlea implants. The majority ask the Government to ensure that funding for operations for the treatment of deaf and deaf births where cochlea implants are used is reviewed and adjusted in the forthcoming assessment of hospital funding, effort-driven financing. Proper funding will help to strengthen treatment capacity, and the Government will ensure that relatives of both children and adults in need of such treatment should be able to feel secure that treatment will be provided. For several reasons, treatment should be given by Norwegian specialists in Norway. It is quite demanding for both patients and relatives to have to do such treatment abroad, and it should therefore be the last resort. The Rikshospital claims that they operated on the first deaf child in Europe and that they have the largest material in Scandinavia for implantation in children. They also claim to have the best results. This means that treatment of this type should primarily be done at the Rikshospitalet, which is competent. One should therefore avoid sending this type of patient abroad. However, in order to ensure that one does not arise in a situation similar to that in the autumn of 2001, with long waiting lists, the majority of the Committee asks that the cooperation project between the Rikshospitalet and the Rikstrogendewerk on cochlea implantation abroad be continued and that children not treated within a reasonable period of time in Norway be offered immediate treatment abroad. Finally, it is positive to be able to report that after the case was brought before the Social Committee, the situation at the Rikshospitalet has changed. It has been reported to per. On 25 January 2002, the waiting lists for children are missing in this area. Furthermore, two children and 13 adults have had their operating dates on time until Easter, and during the period from Easter to summer, an additional five children and 16 adults are planned to operate. That means that in the first half of the year, 42 patients were scheduled to operate at the Rikshospitalet – hence the honor of the Rikshospitalet, who have taken care of the problems in a positive way, and the happiness of patients and relatives!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e722	Several of the population representatives have committed themselves to ending unnecessary and unfortunate waiting times for deaf and severely hearing-impaired children who will benefit from operations using cochlea implants. We are aware that there is no lack of professional competence or capacity in which this treatment can be carried out, i.e. in the Rikshospitalet and Haukeland hospitals, but there is a lack of money allocated to these operations. It can't be like that. It is unworthy to deprive severely impaired hearing and deaf young children of the opportunity to get their hearing back. There are at least two ratios that need to be corrected. Firstly, the two hospitals in question must take care of this patient group within the framework they have. Secondly, the very funding system for hospitals needs to be changed to cover expenditure on operations for the treatment of severely hearing-impaired, deaf and deaf-born cochlea implants. For us who are concerned with improvements in our health care system, it is frustrating and directly unacceptable that the funding system, i.e. the effort-driven funding system, does not reflect and cover the actual costs resulting from improvements in treatment methods and medicines. Of course, this picture also includes the implants used, whether for joint dentures, cochlea implants for deaf people, pacemakers or other equipment. Of course, when the Workers' Party is in the majority position together with the government parties, it is under the clear condition that the following measures are implemented without delay: review of the financial mechanism to ensure that highly hearing-impaired children, deaf and deaf persons receive the very best treatment investigation and treatment within time limits which do not impair patients’ ability to obtain the best benefit from the treatment cooperation project between the Rikshospitalet and the Rikstrøgdeverket on cochlea implantation treatment abroad; One must, of course, facilitate and do what is possible for this treatment to take place in Norway, but that treatment abroad is used when necessary and prudently. There is every reason to believe that it is very important that children receive follow-up in Norway immediately after the operation, not least for language development and speech training. I feel confident that what the Storting decides today provides the basis for following up what I have outlined here as a measure. I therefore hope that we have now ended the uncertainty about these operations. There were happy numbers presented by the rapporteur on the Rikshospitalet. It actually shows that we're on track now. I'm happy, and I'm sure a lot of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e749	I'm really looking forward to the time when it's going to be unnecessary for big business representatives to promote issues of specific treatment within our public health system. To date, however, this has been necessary to safeguard the interests of seriously ill people of different categories. I expect that the hospital reform with state ownership and placing of responsibility in the right place for our health care will result in this type of proposal becoming less common in the future in Stortinget. Whether the Progress Party had succeeded in obtaining a majority for its proposal in Document No. 8:24, which we are going to deal with later, this had given patients the legal right to this type of treatment we are discussing here, and the matter would therefore have been unnecessary to address in the Stortinget. The Party of Progress is part of an overall committee that states that a failure to accept treatment in relation to deaf-born implanted children cannot be accepted. It is documented from the Rikshospital ear, nose and throat department that one there and at Haukeland hospital together has enough professional competence to offer implant treatment to all those who need it, approximately. 60 a year. The problem for the Rikshospitalet, and also for Haukeland Hospital, has been the lack of resources for the purchase of the implant itself. I cannot agree with and be satisfied with the Minister of Health's suggestion in a letter to the Social Committee dated 22 November 2001, stating that the need for this type of operation will be fully met in the near future within the usual financial instruments. I think it is an obvious responsibility for Stortinget in connection with this setting to state that all patients who were investigated within the current year will be treated with implants and have this done as quickly as possible. It is important for the deaf-born children to arrive early for treatment. It is a very poor solution to send these deaf-born children abroad for treatment. It's heavy, it's expensive, and I'm afraid that the linguistic follow-up of the child can be delayed by this kind of arrangement. Implant operations and hearing aids have in common the digitisation and amplification of incoming sounds. While hearing aids convert the electrical signals back into sound waves, the cochlea implants use the electrical signals for direct stimulation of the auditory nerve. It should not, in my view, be the big problem in principle to allow these implants to be refunded to patients in the same way as hearing aids, over the budget of the Rikstrygde. In this case it will be approx. Twenty million. kr per year. Then we could have a system from this day that enabled the two hospitals in the current year to treat all the patients as it was and is necessary to treat. Unfortunately, the majority decision on which it is based must prepare for the fact that in 2002 the necessary treatment of both deaf and deaf people may be delayed due to a lack of resources for the purchase of implants. Unfortunately, the ISF scheme does not fully cover either this type of implant or other type of implant, and it becomes a net cost for the individual hospital. In addition, it is natural in this context to be concerned that both the Southern and the Western Health Regions have a significant under-budget in relation to the 2001 operational situation, which may also affect these patients. Finally, I take the minority proposals into account in the vote, and at the same time draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e770	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e773	The best possible treatment for deaf or severely impaired children must be a high priority task for the Norwegian health system. That is the reason why SV has dealt with this matter. For this patient group, the time factor is crucial. Therefore, SV considers that a waiting time for treatment beyond the time limit set by the professional expertise is not acceptable. So the reason why there is now an unacceptable waiting time is that the Rikshospital lacks money to purchase implants, which others have also had to buy. In a letter to Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbråten of the Rikshospitalet dated 10 December 2001, the ear, nose and nose department stressed that there is no lack of professional competence or capacity that has led to a lack of follow-up and cochlea implantation treatment, but a lack of money for purchases. In the opinion of the SV, therefore, the most important thing we can do in this case is to ensure that in the future we avoid the financial situation of the hospital for a certain period of time preventing such treatment because there is no money to purchase implants. And the best way to ensure this is to change the legislation in such a way that the cochlea implant is considered to be an implantable hearing aid, where the costs of purchasing are covered by the budget of the Rikstrygdewerk, in line with reimbursement for other types of hearing aids. In this way, Norwegian hospitals will be able to make full use of their treatment capacity in this field at all times, regardless of whether there is money to purchase in the budget. SV is aware that the ISF scheme was amended in 2000 to provide better funding for particularly expensive implants, but the letter from the Rikshospitalet to the Minister of Health of 10 December last suggests that the system is still not good enough. SV fears that another attempt to improve and adapt the costs of this type of treatment will only result in additional waiting time for patients who do not have time to wait, while at the same time the basic problem is not satisfactorily resolved this time. SV believes it is important to ensure that as many Norwegian children as possible need this type of treatment are treated in Norway – for the sake of small children, and the greatest possible proximity to parents is important, for economic reasons, and not least because it is very important to initiate additional follow-up of children in their mother tongue and language development as soon as possible after treatment. However, if it appears that treatment cannot be given in Norway within a professionally-determined time limit, it will be likely to be given abroad. However, according to the circumstances I have just mentioned, it must be a priority task to provide treatment capacity and competence in Norway. SV is therefore together with the Progress Party and the Center Party on the minority proposals that have been included on page 3 of the setting, which are now being promoted by the representative John Alvheim. At the same time, I would like to inform you that if these proposals are rejected, SV will subsidly support the recommendation of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e790	Hearing is one of our most basic senses. It is important to learn and understand language. Language means a lot to interpersonal relations and to communicate with each other. Therefore, it is so important to compensate for hearing impairment or complete absence of hearing. Technical aids have been available for many years. Hearing aids have simplified the daily lives of many. These have become increasingly, increasingly smaller and can increasingly tailor to the specific needs of the individual user. Cochlea implant is the latest innovation in medical technology that has produced amazing results so far. More and more operations are being carried out and the technique is being improved. In the future probably the vast majority of deaf people will be able to hear to varying degrees. This is a development that the Christian People's Party wishes to welcome. We want small children with hearing impairment to be operated as quickly as possible, so that the results can be as good as possible. All experience shows that the time factor may be significant for a successful outcome in children. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal that children in need of cochlea implants be offered investigation and treatment within a reasonable time limit in order to avoid any deterioration in the value of treatment. The National Hospital has a national function for the treatment of children by this special method. In the past, the need was 40 - 45 operations per year. years. Now the need has increased to nearly 60, and waiting time has arisen. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the Rikshospital teaches several doctors to perform operations with cochlea implants, so that one can quickly meet the needs of the future. There is disagreement in the Committee on the financing of cochlea implants. The Rikshospital suggests that there is not a lack of professional competence that prevents faster treatment, but a lack of implants. Reference is made to the fact that these were purchased from the Rikstrygdeverket budget at the beginning of this treatment. SV believes that all implants should be covered over the Rikstrøgdewerk, whether they are pacemakers, joint dentures or cochlea implants. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that all implants and cost-intensive treatment procedures be resolved through the financial instruments established. This means that the ISF system must contain the actual costs of the intervention itself, the implant and the medicines necessary for successful treatment. From 2000, costly implants were added to the ISF scheme. It is reassuring that this year the Minister of Health will look into whether this funding has produced the expected results. The Christian People’s Party supports the proposal that if the waiting time is too long in Norway, treatment abroad should be offered immediately, paid by the billion abroad. We believe this should preferably be an offer for adults, and only exceptionally for children. In the case of deaf children, it has been shown that the child will best be able to quickly initiate language and language development immediately after the operation. It is both impractical and expensive to send an entire treatment team and parents abroad. It's good that the Storting puts children's needs in the center. I hope that in the future we will have sufficient capacity to operate cochlea implants in Norway. This is a good offer today, but I expect that medical development and research will further develop tools that can provide the deaf and hearing-impaired with even better opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e820	There are so many children born in Norway with severe hearing impairments or deafness that it per year. years are needed for approx. 60 operations with cochlea implant. We see today that we are getting increasing cows in Norway, while the situation is different in the Nordic countries with which we can compare. It is important that this operation be carried out early in order to save the residual hearing capacity of the child in order to enable one to both rock and stimulate the residual auditory rest. It is ideal to be able to operate before the child is two years old, at least not long after that age. Now we see that the waiting time is so long and the queues are so large that it can be that the child is late for surgery. It is very regrettable and unacceptable. The Rikshospitalet has said in a letter to the Minister of Health that there is no shortage of capacity at the Rikshospitalet, which is the institution that has most of these operations, but there is a lack of implants and a lack of money to finance these implants. The centre party believes that concrete action must be taken in this context. That is why we are in favour of a proposal together with the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, asking for these implants to be purchased and covered by the budget of the Rikstrygdewerk, in line with the reimbursement of hearing aids. These implants shall give an electrical signal for direct stimulation of the auditory nerve, and it is therefore important that they are operated on children in the first row. We also believe that in the case of the close and close follow-up that must be immediately after such an operation, it is a poor solution to refer to foreign treatment for this type of patient. Treatment abroad will make it more difficult to follow-up to give these children language and language development as soon as possible after treatment. It will also be expensive because of what happens when such a small child is to be operated abroad – plus that the professional expert conducting the operation should be involved in the follow-up after the operation. This means that either the child remains abroad for treatment after treatment, or the professional expert may have to accompany him back to Norway. It is said that the capacity and competence of these hospitals carrying out these operations are good enough, and it is reassuring to hear. However, like the representative Alvheim, we in the Centre Party are also concerned about the capacity and feasibility of carrying out these operations today when we look at the budgetary situation of both the Southern and Western Health Regions – and to the extent that all the health regions in Norway. This can cause problems in relation to the rapid treatment of the children born with deafness or severe hearing loss. We believe that the treatment of deaf and deaf persons must be done by the deadline set by the professional expertise in this area in Norway and by the hospital to treat the patient. We believe that the wording of the majority decision,'reasonably good time', is too precise. That is why we are now promoting concrete proposals on how to do this by financing the implants via the Rikstrøgdewerk and setting a time limit from professional teams for operation, and it should be carried out in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e835	The coastal party is very pleased with the positive treatment given to this matter in the Committee, which shows that it must be a highly relevant issue. In many cases, for young children with severe hearing impairment, it is possible to salvage the child’s auditory rest by operating an implant. However, the benefit of the operation will be diminished if the child has to wait a long time for surgery. It is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that these children receive rapid treatment. In this context, the Coastal Party proposes that a time limit of one month be set for the investigation and one month for the operation carried out, either in Norway or abroad. The recommendation of the Social Committee shows that the Rikshospitalet has the necessary professional competence and capacity to ensure proper treatment. The problem is a lack of money for the purchase of implants. The coastal party will therefore support proposal No. 2 by the minority of the Committee on the reimbursement of expenditure on the purchase of implants in line with the reimbursement of hearing aids, so that the economic situation of these health establishments is not decisive. The coastal party also believes that it is a step in the right direction to ask the Government to provide treatment for this group by the deadline set by the professional expertise and the hospital to treat the patients. We therefore also support proposal No. 1 from the Committee's minority, but we insist that a specific period of one month for investigation and one month for operation would have been the best. The coastal party agrees with the minority of the Social Committee that treatment in Norway is the best both for the purposes of follow-up to the patient and for economic reasons. However, if for various reasons it does not work in practice in Norway, we believe that the Committee's recommendation III is in place. Like others, we want to support the majority position in this matter. I would also like to pay tribute to the Rikshospitalet because they have given priority to the matter, as the Advocate General informed us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e852	Treatment of hearing impairment in children by cochlea implant insertion is a national function performed at the Rikshospitalet. On the one hand, national functions are financed through the special grant to regional hospitals and on the other through regular input-driven funding. Because the cochlea implant is a particularly expensive apparatus, in addition to the ISF refund for the procedure, a separate reimbursement scheme has been established for the implant itself. As is known, input-driven funding is a blending model where an element of unit price complements the basic allocation of regional health enterprises. The hospital reform places overall management and budgetary responsibilities for each hospital on the regional health enterprise. It is therefore up to Health South to enter into an agreement with the Rikshospitalet on the budget and activity of the individual hospital establishments. However, through the Health Sør Steering Document, the Ministry has instructed that the assigned national functions are respected, including the national function of such implants for the treatment of children. The Ministry will ensure that this is followed up by the communication channels and governance mechanisms laid down in the Health Enterprises Act. Several teams have pointed out that the financing system for highly specialised medicine that I have now described does not adequately address the specific challenges associated with this field. Also, for my part, I assume that it can still be a potential to improve this scheme. For this reason, on 1 February of this year, the Government set up a sample to assess the future financing system for the specialist health service. In the mandate, funding for highly specialised functions in hospitals is mentioned explicitly as a problem issue for the sample. The sample is expected to provide an assessment of how these functions should be financed in order to ensure treatment for the benefit of patients. Treatment involving the implantation of cochlea apparatus will be included in such an assessment. The selection shall deliver its submission by the end of 2002. In parallel with the study on funding, funds from the so-called foreign billion will also be used in 2002 if necessary to avoid waiting time for the investigation and deployment of cochlea implants. In 2001, the Rikshospitalet treated 45 people with ordinary funding. In addition, ten operations were carried out with funding from the Riksstrøgdeverket. These were either treated abroad or in Norway as part of training. An agreement with the Rikshospitale on foreign treatment targets in this field has now been initiated in 2002. The plans of the National Hospital for the first half of the year include, as mentioned by the case-rapporteur, the investigation and treatment of a total of 42 patients, 13 of whom are children. In the light of this presentation of the facts and plans in the future, I believe I can conclude that, in particular, children needing cochlea implants will be offered an investigation and treatment within a reasonable time frame, either in Norway or abroad. The Patient Rights Act provides patients with the right to the necessary health care from the specialist healthcare service. The conditions for entitlement to the necessary health care are generally designed to cover all types of suffering and treatments. These conditions are mainly related to the severity of the suffering and the benefits of the available treatment and are based on the so-called Wage II investigation. The intention is that all patient groups should be assessed in accordance with the same legislation and principles. Establishing specific statutory rights for specific patient groups or treatment modalities could lead to non-compliance with the principle of non-discrimination. It will make legislation more comprehensive and complex and may lead to more bureaucracy. In my opinion, this is not desirable. The objective of patient rights legislation must be that it is easily accessible to patients. This makes it easier for patients to have their rights implemented and helps to strengthen legal certainty. In line with what I have said here, I would like to follow up the decisions that seem to have a majority in the Chamber today, and I would also like to work out a plan for a comprehensive rehabilitation offer for hearing-impaired and relatives, a so-called hearing plan. It will be designed during the spring and will address itself, among other things. how to improve the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation services for children receiving this type of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e874	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e877	As I mentioned in my post, I am pleased that the Rikshospitalet now seems to take the responsibility that it is imposed, and I am also satisfied with what I heard the Minister of Health said in his statement here. Although we have now established a treatment method that seems to give many a new opportunity for hearing – and better hearing – it is a relationship that I think we should not forget and that I want to ask the Minister of Health about. It's the very follow-up of these children afterwards. Have we secured a set-up, perhaps an interaction between two different departments, two different agencies, to follow up the child in the linguistic field? One thing is that one has the ability to speak and hear, but experience shows that these children also need to master the sign language, and then they can later make a choice as to what they can use, or will depend on using. So my question to the Minister of Health is, have the treatment agencies been concerned with these issues, which are very important for the quality of life and the ability to function in society later?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e882	It is very important that people who have hearing impairments and are deaf receive the help that is available so that they can, as far as possible, perceive sound and communicate. In this context, rehabilitation services for hearing-impaired and habilitation services for children receiving this type of surgery that we are discussing today are a very important part of the overall health service. Just because I also consider that there is a potential for improvement in the continuous chain of health and rehabilitation services, there is a work in the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs on a plan for a comprehensive offer in the area of rehabilitation for this group. In this context, we will assess the guidelines for the rehabilitation provision of CI-operative children and the rehabilitation offer for CI-operative adults, in line with what was suggested by Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e887	The Committee's recommendation, which is then from the majority of the Committee, has certain weaknesses in relation to proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party. This applies, inter alia, to: I in the proposal for a decision. As regards input-driven funding, the last part of the sentence states: ‘is reviewed and adjusted in the forthcoming assessment of hospital funding [[ISF]] But it's only when we get to III in the committee's recommendation that I start to be a little skeptical. For it it says, approximately in the middle of: «offer investigation and treatment within a reasonable time limit in order to avoid any deterioration in the value of the treatment». That's when you can start to wonder, what's reasonably good time? When used in the political environment, the term ‘reasonably good time’ and that type of concept are not very specific. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Health the following question: In a situation in which we are talking about children, about children's growth and the ability of children to hear, does the Minister of Health not believe that 'within a reasonable time' is precisely the deadline set by a doctor, by professional expertise and the hospital to treat patients? That's exactly where we have the expertise. What I feel like you're adding up with this is just being able to use it budgetaryly to say no and to postpone the treatment of patients. Will the Council of State confirm that the Council of State also considers that ‘within a reasonable time limit’ is the time limit set by the expertise?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e894	Let me first say, on the first point, that the funding system is being reviewed and adjusted. I think it is very important also for the Stortinget that something as central as the financing system for highly specialised medicine and for hospitals is subject to a comprehensive continuous review, and is not adjusted as a result of individual initiatives linked to a particular diagnostic group, although it is important and needs a better offer. I am pleased that the majority agrees. When it comes to the question of what is a ‘reasonably good deadline’, we can probably have long discussions about it. What's important to me is that we don't have waiting lists of importance for this group, and I'm glad that the Rikshospital has prioritised this group so high that the Rikshospital is actually set to have a significantly larger activity in this area in the year that we're now in, than it had last year. That means that more people get help faster, and I am absolutely sure that it will be better in accordance with the medical professional assessments than the situation that you have had before and that I fully agree with is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e901	The Council of State was concerned about the issue I am going to address, where he also outlined that a broader review should be made of the arrangements relating to reimbursement and reimbursement of expenses for special equipment. And I can agree with the Council of State on that. However, I would like to ask if the Council of State in the future can imagine a system in which these types of implants are sidelined – which, according to their use today and the extent of their use, is intended to have a cost level of approx. Twenty million. kr – with hearing aids, i.e. a type of reimbursement scheme linked to the Rikstrøgdeverket for the equipment so that the economy of hospitals would not prevent the implant treatment itself. It's very difficult to imagine using cochlea implants and getting an over-consumption, because other people than the swallowhouses themselves have to cover the expenses. Similarly, the use of prostheses, for example, could be considered to be linked to the use of prostheses. hip replacements and knee replacements, or, for that matter, pacemakers, because one would then be able to grasp it, by looking at the equipment to be used, and among others. on purchases at large. It might be that one body responsible for the acquisition of the equipment and delivering it would have cost-reducing effects. At the same time, unforeseeable hospital economy is being prevented as a cause for variability in the use of implants. I just want to ask whether the Council of State is completely alien to such a way of thinking, and whether he will be rejecting it, or whether he sees it as a possible consequence of such a review in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e908	Well, when you're faced with a full review of hospital funding, you have to be reluctant to say that there are some solutions that are totally excluded, so I don't want to do that. But in general, I have to say that I am skeptical about a system of combining funding of facilities for the disabled with financing of hospital operations. There are, after all, two rather different arrangements, which happen to have a sort of meeting point in this case, but which also have relatively few meeting points. I think it's worth keeping these arrangements apart and making sure that we have hospital funding that encourages as much as possible to treat more quickly, where the money follows the patient and where the cost keys reflect as much as possible the real costs. It will be an important objective when we are now undergoing full hospital funding. Then in later rounds we get back to what the decisions around the system are going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e913	I am still somewhat concerned about this with the resource situation and the possibility of both operation and follow-up, with rehabilitation and possibly rehabilitation, which the representative Kristoffersen was also concerned about. And I want to stress this with time and capacity a little bit more. There has been evidence of the majority decision – I showed, among other things. to it in my post – and the term ‘reasonably good deadline’. What is it? I don't think the Minister of Health gave a good answer to what he put in that term. He talked about – if I did not understand it wrong – avoiding waiting lists of importance. The proposers have said that it should be a maximum of one month's waiting time. We agree that the professional part must be able to determine here. This is also the case with patient guarantees, which we are going to deal with later today. But what does the Minister for Health think is a reasonable time limit for this treatment? So a little bit more foreign treatment. The representative of Woie Duesund, representing the same party as the Minister for Health, said that foreign treatment should only apply to adults. Does the Minister of Health share that view? And finally, a more concrete but technical question. The Minister of Health said that this was a nationwide function added to the Rikshospitalet. But according to my knowledge, it's almost a multiregional function, where also Haukeland hospitals are inside the picture. Does it mean that the Minister of Health said that only the Rikshospital should have this function in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e922	It is my opinion that we should have a patient rights law based on individual deadlines for the provision of treatment to patients with the right to necessary health care, and such individual deadlines must, of course, be based on what is medically sound. That's the answer to that question. And I have notified that the Government will come back with a proposal for adjustments and changes to the Patient Rights Act with this starting point. When it comes to the issue of the functional distribution between hospitals, there are no signs of what I have said here today, changing the functional distribution that is actually between hospitals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e929	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1682]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e951	In a desperate attempt to defeat the Finnmarks uprising against the Workers' Party in advance of the 2001 election campaign, former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg promised to provide up to 50 new jobs in Finnmark by proposing the creation of a central purchasing office for health businesses in Vadsø. The proposal was made by LO Finnmark and the Finnish County Municipality solely for the purpose of creating new jobs. The former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg should know that a proposal of this kind was contrary to Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001, the proposal for the hospital reform, which states: ‘Adding strategic responsibility for supply to regional health establishments is a condition for the success of a more decentralised coordination model. It is not, therefore, a question of establishing central supply bureaucracies, but of networking cooperation.’ Furthermore, I quote from Ot.prp. No 66: «Such supply networks may also be considered to be established between regional health establishments, in particular in relation to the purchase of expensive and complex medical-technical equipment.» And then it says, «It is therefore appropriate to consider granting individual environments in enterprises with specific professional qualifications as centres of competence for national tasks.» To establish a national purchasing centre and place it on a outskirts of the country as Vadsø is thus in conflict with Ot.prp. No 66, as former Minister of Health Tore Tønne seems to have agreed, as he stated in a letter to County rapporteur Evy Ann Midtun in Finmark that it would be up to the governments of the five new health regions to address common procurement solutions. The manner in which this case has been raised, namely that a desperate district election campaign game from the LO and the Workers' Party in Finnmark, is by no means unheard of. Equally unheard and unacceptable is the fact that the only investigation available is a party investigation from the Finnmark County by a local consultant, Norconsult, and that this unilateral party investigation has been the sole basis for the Ministry’s hearing. While there are benefits to be derived from better organisation of hospital purchases, better organisation of purchases requires, however, short communication routes and simple decision-making processes. Furthermore, close communication and contact between the seller and the purchaser are important in order to make the right professional and price choices. A central purchasing office in Vadsø does not meet these requirements. With an office in Vadsø, a significant cost-intensive travel activity must be expected by suppliers and by the competent professional purchasers of health care establishments, thereby weakening the necessary professional close contact with hospitals. In the material available from Norconsult, no gains on this type of central purchasing have been demonstrated at all. The conclusions of the report are more based on vision and assumption, without documentation, which I find not very credible. If the Minister of Health seriously intends to consider a joint purchasing centre, which I hope he does not, a public unwarranted investigation of the matter must first be carried out. You almost have to be able to demand that. In this context, I refer to the very poor experience of public hospitals for a few years ago with the so-called central purchasing centre in the KS that imposed significant additional costs and losses on hospitals. Both medical and technical equipment and, in particular, consumables need to be professionally adapted to the individual hospital/user, and purchases must be made in agreement with the professional expertise at regional level. There is also reason to fear that a joint purchasing office for the whole country will lead to a reduction in competition and a monopoly of suppliers. The solution to the purchasing problem should be to establish group purchases by regional undertakings. In all major public hospitals, there is today a very high level of competence in the purchase of medical devices and medical consumables. This professional expertise must remain independent of the purchasing system in hospitals. Hospitals have gradually developed significant purchasing skills. If this competence were to be removed from hospitals and regions and gathered in a central purchasing body, this would in the long term weaken the quality and logistics processes of the individual enterprise. This could also affect the service provided by the suppliers and the well-being of the users. The vulnerability issue in the supply service should also be given high weight in this context, from an emergency point of view. I am aware that several hospitals have individually spoken against the establishment of a central purchasing office in Vadsø for the same reason as I mentioned earlier. It's about the Haukeland hospitals, about the hospitals in Eastfold, and it's about the Agder hospitals. The Hearing Opinions of Health East read as follows: ‘1. The Management Board considers the proposal to set up a National Purchasing Centre for Health Enterprises in Vadsø as inappropriately assessed from a professional economic point of view.2. Health East would prefer to organise the purchasing activity after the guided tours given in Ot.prp. 66 and in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health report ‘Sickness reform some ownership perspectives’. In other words, purchasing activities are organised as regional networks with coordination between health regions.3. Accordingly, Health East sees the need for an extended supplementary investigation which can clarify how the health-easterly purchasing activity in Health East is to be put in place in order to optimise the service of health businesses' economy and function.4. The Management Board shall authorise the Director to inform the final opinion of the hearing based on the Board’s observations and assessments in the case.’.» There are now also hearing opinions from health south, health west and health north that are against the establishment of a purchasing centre in Vadsø. I ask the Minister of Health to carefully evaluate the recordings that have come from these health companies, and I strongly advise against the Minister of Health going into a proposal to establish a central purchasing office in Vadsø. Regional undertakings should further develop and develop their purchasing service on the basis of the systems currently being practised and for improving those systems both in terms of quality and price. State-based good medical practice is an overall objective of the hospital reform, and it must not be fooled and weakened by taking into account regional policy considerations, which are clearly set up by the Finnish state in this matter. I also believe that this is contrary to the corporate reform if the owner now interferes with the business governance. This is strongly contrary to the entire corporate model that Odelstinget has previously adopted. The Ministry and the Minister of Health must also feel bound by the content of the odelsting proposal and the decision of the Odelstinget in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1010	Under the previous government, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health gave Health Nord a mandate to investigate how a joint purchasing centre in Vadsø could be organised. The investigation mission also included a sketch of what this might look like. In this work, advice has been sought from a reference group of members from all five regional health establishments. This investigation has now been completed and has been consulted by regional enterprises. This is the hearing referred to by the representative of Alvheim. Health Nord is actually dealing with the matter at its board meeting today, and will in a short time provide a response to the Ministry of Health. The further follow-up to the case by the Ministry of Health will take place on this basis. I understand that this was the reason for the assignment from the government of Stoltenberg, which was a clear intention that a purchasing body should be established in Vadsø. I have also understood that before the enquiry there had been a dialogue between the department and the boards of regional health companies. I follow up the matter on the basis of this intention. At the same time, it is crucial for me that solutions chosen should ensure the ability of businesses to perform their purchasing tasks in a rational way. It is also essential that the solutions are anchored in regional health businesses. I am aware that in the process that has now been completed critically has come into play. This will be carefully studied, as requested by the interpellant, and included in the dialogue that will now take place with regional health establishments. In the process we are now going to carry out, it should be kept open so that, in relation to Vadsø, other common tasks can also be considered to be assigned to them that should be resolved in a similar way. In general, I would like to say that when there is such a shift as the hospital reform is, it cannot be seen as an isolated restructuring of the hospital business in Norway. It is also necessary to look at the overall societal impact of the transition with a broader perspective. The arrangement of a buying-in unit in Vadsø must be seen in such a perspective. It follows from the reform that there will be a reduction in county hospital administration. The biggest effect of this will be for those places where you don't have hospitals. Vadsø is such a place. The establishment of a purchasing body in Vadsø could thus be a contribution to reducing the negative impact on the city and district. At the same time, it is evident that the national hospital organisation cannot be guided unilaterally by regional policy considerations. I refer here to Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000–2001, which developed coordinated procurement as a future area of activity. It pointed out that the strategic responsibility for supply to regional enterprises was a condition for the success of a model of decentralised coordination. Furthermore, it was also noted that supply networks could be established between regional undertakings. With the special background that this case has, the department will take the follow-up on the basis of the input that we now expect to receive from Health Nord. The following elements will be central to this follow-up work: Firstly, regional health enterprises must have a significant influence on the choice of systems and the organisation of business purchases, including clarifying their own role in the overall purchasing organisation. This is important for the overall quality and cost-effectiveness of work on health care, and there will be a lack of overall responsibility for regional health businesses if decision-making competence in this area is deprived of them and managed by the owner. Secondly, I believe that, even within a framework in which a great deal of decision-making competence has been added to regional health businesses, it will be possible to identify tasks that should be addressed by a single national unit. The investigation carried out under the auspices of Health Nord is based here on a structure for the division of roles and jobs between such a central unit, the regional level and the level of health enterprises. I am aware that, in the consultation round, there have been interventions that want to lay the strategic responsibility for the regional health enterprise level. This will, of course, be an important assessment theme in the further process, and the solutions chosen will, of course, have a significant impact on the role, tasks and dimensioning of a central unit. Such recordings must be assessed in an open manner. The ministry's work on this will, of course, also be carried out in the context of the reference to the purchasing function given in Ot.prp. No Sixty-six. Thirdly, given the background of the matter, it is my intention that relations made to national joint tasks as a result of the process I have now described should be placed in a unit located in Vadsø. I am working on the starting point that the dialogue between the Department, Health Nord and the other regional health establishments should seek a solution that is consistent with the views of regional health companies on how the purchasing function should be organised, while at the same time providing the basis for the establishment of a common unit in Vadsø. Thus, with the emphasis on the existence of rational solutions and their anchoring in regional health enterprises, this may mean that the process should also look at other common functions in order to safeguard the societal perspective that is an important premise in the matter. It has been agreed with Health Nord that the follow-up dialogue shall take place as soon as the department has received the recording from there. Of course, this follow-up will also involve the other regional health establishments. The interpellation is based on the study model on the functions to be added to a single unit and will have cost-effective consequences in terms of travel activity, poorly adapted purchases and the construction of a bureaucracy. I do not intend to go in for a scheme that imposes solutions with such consequences. The process described just intends to find solutions that support a rational purchasing function both collectively and for individual enterprises. I add that both the corporate model and the integrity that is supposed to lie in the boards should guarantee that such results do not end up. I will come back to Stortinget with a statement on the matter in connection with the revised national budget and there I will present the conclusions after the process I have now described.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1033	The Minister of Health was both clarifying and not clarifying. If I understood correctly what was said, the Minister of Health in this context will continue to look at so-called socio-economic systems and the district problem, jobs, etc. I cannot, with my best will, see what district policy has to do with this matter. We have adopted a hospital reform with a business model, and companies are given all authority in how to organise, operate and develop the future specialist health service in Norway. That with our mandate, from a political point of view, we are going to enter into district policy and put it into this context, I do not understand. On the other hand, what was positive in the Minister of Health's comments was that the dangers I have explained in my interpellation, both in the text and in the post, namely significant travel activities, costly purchases, monopolising of delivery and a formidable bureaucracy, would not be accepted by the Minister of Health. And it's reassuring to hear, but it's going to be very interesting to see what the end result of this is. But I think it's probably in place to ask for a public investigation about this that's good enough. It is not available. And for my part, the consultant's report in the north is not good enough as evidence to prove anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1040	In my view, it is not possible to take the starting point that Mr Alvheim's representative is now doing, that the hospital reform has nothing to do with regional district policy at all. Why has it been decided to place the main administration of regional enterprises outside part of the largest urban centres in Norway — for example? the administration of Health East to Hamar and Health South to Skien? These are also regional policy reasons, I would assume, which have led to it, even though I was not involved in that process. But what I agree with the Alvheim representative is that one cannot unilaterally let regional policy considerations govern the organisation of the hospital services in Norway. I think it would be detrimental to regional and regional policy if solutions that seem bureaucratic, cost-effective and not rational, and that conflict with the interests of the enterprises that under law are actually to be responsible for such functions as we are talking about here, namely the purchasing functions. And then I agree that the basis for the investigation that was there was initially not enough. Therefore, during the previous government, Health Nord started to carry out an additional investigation. The result of that process I expect to get in a short time, and it is then natural that I do not conclude in this interpellation debate, but wait until I have received that material. I would like to go into that process of two clear intentions: firstly, we need to find a role based on the strategic responsibility of regional health businesses for purchasing functions, and, at the same time, we need to seek out joint functions that can be added to Vadsø in a rational way, because it is a political starting point in this matter, but also because Vadsø is actually one of the cities in Norway that, because of the health reform, may have lost a lot of health management tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1047	The idea of closer cooperation on large purchases was raised in the state acquisition of hospitals and followed up in the government budget proposal for 2002. In the light of this interpellation, I would like to underline some of the basis for the state to assume responsibility for, among other things. hospitals, as stated in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001. The aim is to provide a better basis for the overall management of specialist health services and to legislate on a clear state responsibility. In addition, a better use of resources deployed in the health sector should be facilitated in order to improve health care for the whole population of Norway. We spend many billions per. years of equipment and consumables in the hospital sector. This large volume of the sector as a whole, if a power to coordinate essential parts, will give health professionals a favourable negotiating position on price. Another and equally important factor in purchasing cooperation may be the exploitation of common competences. This was also taken into account in the 2002 budget, on page 194 of the Proposition of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health: ‘The reform of ownership and business provides new opportunities for cooperation on the procurement and supply function. By cooperating more closely on procurement, enterprises will focus more on suppliers, both in terms of volume and competence. Development work has been started for a regional government purchasing entity.» This was also the Minister of Health inside. Former Minister of Health Tore Tønne made an owner decision that this centre should be added to District Norway, and then to Vadsø. I assume that the new government and the health minister in this case are on the principle of such a purchasing unit, and I refer to the health minister's positive mention of a central one in Vadsø. I understand, of course, the interpellant's fear of building up bureaucratic structures. However, I assume that healthcare companies, within their broad powers, control their purchases, among other things. through strategic coordination in the health region. I assume that we will of course not establish a central supply unit, but get decentralised coordination where one can reap the benefit of a central unit that has the cutting edge to get to the best purchases in terms of both price and quality. There is no doubt that many hospitals have struggled hard to set the right requirements, assess the functionality and needs for service, price and delivery security. So this is what we're going to be able to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1071	The previous government asked Health Nord to investigate the need for a joint purchasing centre for regional health companies. It was supposed that this central was located to Vadsø. I see the location as less problematic. With today’s technology, geographical distance between the different actors does not need to be a point because one needs the same technical solutions regardless of where this centre is located, and because regional health businesses have their head offices spread throughout the country and purchases are to be made from many different suppliers, both nationally and abroad. In this way it is positive that such state functions can spread. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus about moving and establishing state jobs across the country where this is functional and professionally correct. This has in the past been difficult to implement in practice, but the current government has in record time been able to demonstrate that this is possible. But the prerequisite for this is that it serves society as a whole. Health expenditure is enormous and forms a significant part of our health expenditure. It is therefore an area that needs a lot of attention. Smart solutions can bring significant savings to the state and allow us to make better use of resources. As pointed out in Ot.prp. No 66, a coordinated procurement may provide such savings. Regional health enterprises may act as a single entity as a large and important customer vis-à-vis large international companies. A national unit also has the possibility to have access to complex purchases, which are not possible for individual enterprises. It must therefore be a prerequisite for the establishment of the national unit that coordination provides better rational and economic solutions than if these purchases were made by the regions themselves. I therefore agree with the interpellant that this is a matter on which the main emphasis must be placed in connection with the government's further work on the matter. It is also a prerequisite that such a scheme should be established in the regional health establishments and that undertakings should see themselves served by a common solution. However, in this context, it is also important that the Department be able to take a general view of the need for these types of cases. There will always be objections that are not always as professionally well thought out. Within the framework, with a high level of decision-making competence added to regional health enterprises, tasks that can be solved by a single national unit could be identified. I refer to the Minister of Health in his reply saying that he will seek a solution that matches the views of regional health companies on how the purchasing function should be organised and at the same time provides the basis for establishing a purchasing unit in Vadsø. This solution shall not and shall not have cost-effective consequences. I look forward to the Government coming back to Stortinget with a solution that is also based on the input from the other regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1084	Even those who are signed have certain restrictions on action both against the Government and not least against the undertakings. This is a typical case where I think you're really on wild roads. This is primarily because of the representative, Höie, who was involved in his post, the basis for the investigation when it came to a joint purchasing centre. It was in advance provided where it was to be located. There was nothing like that. the undertakings themselves have been able to assess. A joint purchasing centre was to be investigated, but it was to be located in Vadsø. It shows that it's actually the district policy that comes first, and then it's the business and the center that comes next. It is pointed out that it is not necessarily cost-effective to set up this centre in Vadsø, nor is it intended to build a larger bureaucracy. However, health businesses have already built up some bureaucracy around their organisations, and it must then be reasonable to be able to use some of them. There's at least no one in this room, with the debate that we've had before, which could say it's as cheap to travel from Finnmark down to the market as it is to assess some other alternatives. I also have to say that there are probably some people who would like to compare this with the rest of the relocations of the agencies, like, among other things. Coastal Directorate. But it made sense because the Coastal Directorate actually belongs along the coast and not necessarily in the interior of Oslo soil, in Oslo pot. But sometimes we should put our feet down and let others evaluate this. The previous government has not done so in this case. First you have pointed to the map where the central bank is to be located, and then you have been allowed to investigate. This is the wrong starting point, and this should actually change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1091	I don't think I've heard from this pulpit words like 'district policy' and 'outside' being pronounced with greater indignation. I think that's thought-provoking. In many ways, this makes the policy and commitment of the Progress Party visible, not to a diversity in the country and to the districts, but to it just actively. What I also thought was interesting was what the last speaker now did: actively using the argument about how much more expensive it is to live in the districts and the distance down to Oslo, an argument that the Progress Party largely never uses. You argue for your choices, you say people get to choose where they want to live, and you don't want to help to make it less expensive to live in the districts, and that communications should get better. This is not the first time initiative has been taken in relation to setting up establishments elsewhere than the central eastern region. For example, the Coastal Directorate was added to the municipality of the home of the representative Nesvik – Ålesund. We've seen that the Norwegian Polar Institute has ended up in Tromsø, and the central government collection centre has been in Bjørnevatn for many years. The National Library is located in Mo in Rana, and others can be mentioned around the country, for example. Well-island records. What I think is thought-provoking in relation to many district locations is that the experience has been good. I have been surprised by some of the measures, that they really had to be implemented, such as. with the Polar Institute, and I recorded that in its time there was great resistance to it. So the signals have gradually become more and more positive. One of the things that surprises me most about the interpellant is that you can become so heartbroken that it can be worth trying to get jobs elsewhere than in the central eastern region. I think many of us have had contact with those who have worked out the idea of such a joint purchasing centre. I myself have been skeptical at first. I thought, can you have that competence in Vadsø? And then you see someone burning for an idea, how it's more and more substance in the idea, and you're gradually thinking that just because you have people in a local environment who believe in something, you should be with them and back them up. It has carried the boat all the way to the finish. That's how things are often solved, by taking initiatives locally, where you get more and more people to believe in the idea and eventually carry it out. I am sincerely surprised at John Alvheim's interpellation, that it will cause so much indignation. Let's imagine that such an initiative came from his own home state, Telemark, and then he would stand on this pulpit and speak so indignantly in relation to being able to find that kind of solution perhaps in Porsground or in his home municipality. John Alvheim wouldn't do that. Then I think that instead one should go into the realities of the basic idea that lies here, and see if one can join forces in the Stortinge to realize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1100	As part of the state takeover of hospitals, it has been decided to create a joint purchasing centre for these hospitals in Vadsø, under the responsibility of Health Nord. As the Minister of Health's response pointed out, health care services are being heard. The interpellant is critical of the scheme because of fear of long distances, dual competence and extensive bureaucracy, and calls for evidence that this is a good system. When there was a raging state takeover of the county's hospitals, it was, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, better argument against than for, but it was now once so. The creation of skilled workplaces in Vadsø is thus a plus argument in this context. Very often, when competence workplaces are established outside the larger urban areas, a counterforce says it is too long, too expensive and too difficult. The Christian People's Party strongly believes that the planned purchasing unit in Vadsø will be well placed to provide top-notch competence and coordination between health professionals with whom it is rational to operate. It is important to use the whole country. The Christian People's Party would like to admit that in such matters district and regional policy will always be an important argument alongside many others. In our days of potential for good data communication, distances are no longer a strong counter-argument; they are decentralization of work tasks. The Christian People's Party is confident that, in cooperation with health professionals, the Minister of Health will identify a good division of labour between the centre of Vadsø and the various actors. Here's what it's all about forming something in layers, not wooding things down on someone's head. But some basic elements should be set at a top-olithic level, and when. for such geographical locations, I think it is right that it is decided on a central political basis and not by individual actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1119	I think it is important in this case to have more thoughts in my head at the same time. There is a localisation debate that could come out of this, but there is also an organisational debate that should be taken in connection with this. For those who were most active in business, some of the arguments were to avoid rigid bureaucracy and administrative and organisational arrangements. I think that some of the arrangements we'll still see, some will follow the load, and some will come just because of the business model and the ideology underlying it. Now it is not right, as interpellant John Alvheim claims, that what is proposed in connection with a joint purchasing centre in Vadsø is contrary to Ot.prp. No Sixty-six. In fact, coordination was proposed in the proposal, and the Progress Party supported the proposition and the position on the basis of the majority. So I think Alvheim must at least take some responsibility for it. So Alvheim now says that he does not want a central purchasing system and a joint purchasing centre, and that there has to be a debate that has to come after what was adopted in connection with Ot.prp. No Sixty-six. I can be skeptical to a joint purchasing centre if that means centralizing all purchases. Coordination can be a great help, but closeness to users, user needs and competences must be crucial. Similarly, what is at stake here is something crucial in terms of preparedness and preparedness, which a person wants to obtain. But when the interpellant does this at a distance to a big problem, and that's the main point, I disagree. Localization is not really here. The distance to Vadsø is not deterrent today. With regard to logistics, information and communication, Vadsø is just as suitable as the central struts of the country when thinking about the information and communication possibilities you have today, with today's technology. It was said here that regional health businesses must have decisive influence. You shouldn't be run from the owner's side,' said the Minister of Health. It's okay. But I still think that one should go forward very carefully here if one is not to set up schemes that seem stiff-legged, and that can be as difficult to manage as the ones you had before, with the override and the ambition of someone who sits in a different place than in the daily management. There must be flexibility and internal autonomy in much of this if each institution is to have the freedom that was just the main argument for health businesses. But coordination of competences and of different things here that we need in procurement is of course important. And I think it's going to get further on – requirements specifications, top-notch construction and coordination – but it has to be possible that one doesn't override the individual hospital. And then this mall might as well be in Vadsø as elsewhere in the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1134	The debate is about two things. One is whether we should have a central purchasing centre, and the other is whether it should be located in Vadsø. I want to deal with the organizational debate. In Ot.prp. No 66 it is said in cape. 2 under item 2.7, in particular, on purchases, that there is a need for clearer coordination of purchases in order to exploit the large-scale benefits that this may bring. Furthermore, it is noted that coordination between regions must be organised. Similarly, it is recognised that each region is responsible for supply and that it will be as efficient as possible. These moments were at the bottom of the decision to set up the central purchasing body. Good arguments for establishment are first and foremost: hospitals in Norway should coordinate their purchases in order to benefit from the major purchasing advantage. And secondly, the responsibility of the Purchasing Authority and ownership continues to lie with the regions through the proposed ownership company AS Health Acquisitions. Interpellant says that the strategic responsibility for supply must lie with regional health businesses. That's what it's going to do. Responsibility will not be delegated all the time just when enterprises become sole owners of the purchasing unit. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking here about a model of how ownership can be exercised in a practical way. It is not a question of liability pulverisation or of ownership of other regions. This will ensure the necessary user involvement for the coordination that must be at some point – this time in Vadsø. There is little doubt that the coordination of hospital purchases of goods and services is economically viable. It shows all the experience of the public and private sectors across Europe. And I therefore allow myself to have my strong doubts as to whether the exemption is due in the Norwegian health care system. Whether coordination in terms of infrastructure and technology, as we have today, is established in Oslo, Trondheim or Vadsø is of little importance. At present, coordination is more or less absent, at best lacking, and health funds are not optimally exploited. One can slowly ask who his honoring representative Alvheim is running in this matter. Care for government expenditure is hardly possible. Coordination of hospital procurement will require discipline, it will require interaction between hospital managers, it will provide transparency, it will provide budgetary control, while there are measures that will provide more effective health funds that we can use on our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1145	When we discuss this matter, we should perhaps also look back and look at the background of the hospital reform. The meaning of much of what you did was, among other things, the coordination of resources and the creation of a more holistic ownership, and not least investment and procurement from a holistic perspective. Purchases represent a very large proportion of the total budgets of hospitals. Bringing down the costs of products and equipment for hospitals is important in order for us to be able to get more health out of every penny – I have always believed that it was very important for the Progress Party, and that is of course in everyone's interest. In the context of the hospital reform, an idea is being developed in the Vadsø environment about a joint purchasing centre for all hospitals. Calculations show that Health Norway can save between 600 million. NOK 1 billion and to coordinate their purchases. Collecting as many units as there is, after all, talk to one customer, also gives market power to both Norwegian and foreign suppliers. It must be in the interest of Storting that taxpayers save money on the purchase of equipment for hospitals. And I also thought that the Progress Party was concerned about what the taxpayers saved. I also register that the suppliers of the hospital sector are concerned about the market power that we as customers are in the process of obtaining. We have to interpret that as being on the right track. I also record that the Progress Party, at John I. Alvheim, is concerned about the travel costs that the suppliers will receive. I feel that there are two debates going on, one on whether to have a national purchasing unit, and the other on where the problem is. As I interpret the statements today from the Progress Party, the location is the problem. I don't think this interpellation would have been raised if the location had been in Kristiansund in More and Romesdal or in Skien, which is in John I. Alvheim's home country. A purchasing centre, as described, could have been located anywhere in Norway. That exactly Vadsø was elected was duly justified by the Minister of Health and by the representative Bent Höie. I strongly react to the representative Alvheim's description of Finnmark and Vadsø as so-called edge of the country. In the light of such statements, you have to ask yourself why people and businesses can be there at all. If travel costs are a problem, the Progress Party should perhaps be more concerned about the travel costs of the population who, after all, lives in Finnland than about the travel costs of suppliers wishing to sell services to the Norwegian State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1160	Not surprisingly, we have had a district policy debate, with special focus on North Norway. My starting point was not Vadsø or Vadsø. My starting point was – and is – that we do not need this center. It is clear and clear in Ot.prp. No 66 – as I have quoted earlier – ‘the responsibility for supply is placed on regional health businesses’. So far, regional health businesses have not asked for their own purchasing centre. If they had done so, the matter would have been completely different. Then we could have taken the localization debate afterwards – if it had been the development. This is where Vadsø is based, and it has the whole ball on its own for purely political/strategic reasons – and also as an important part of the election campaign that took place last autumn. You say you're going to save between 600 million. NOK 1 billion and NOK 1 billion. Is this documented in some of the documents available? Not at all! These are statements and statements, which Health Nord also points out in his letter to the ministry. The main issue in this debate was – and is – that this purchasing office should not be established until we have seen what regional health businesses are doing. Most people who have spoken here believe that there is no coordinated procurement in the Norwegian health system at all today. That's not right. There is a very close and wide-ranging cooperation on regional, state and community procurement. We have achieved huge gains, and I have little faith that the gains can get bigger – I can't quite answer that, but I don't think so – at least not in the way that this is added up to. Undertakings must at least have the freedom granted to them by the Storting without intervention by either districts or central health authorities. That's my main score. Some people here don't seem to want to be involved. It will continue to have a hand on the steering wheel in relation to businesses, especially in the field of district policy. I think that is a great regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1173	I interpret the debate here today to the point where – at least so far – it is in line with the angle of attack that I outlined in my main response. I'm going to follow it. That is to say, on the basis of the responsibility of regional enterprises, and from the input of Health Nord, I will engage in a dialogue with all regional enterprises to find a solution to what should be common functions. It is my view and my intention that such joint functions – possibly together with other common functions – should be added to Vadsø. I have recorded the critical points of view that have come, both from some health companies and in the debate here today. It is my clear objective that we need to find solutions where we do not get into a situation where health businesses feel that their responsibilities are being undermined, or that they are being imposed on solutions that are clearly perceived as rational. What Mr Nesvik said was that it was decided in advance that a number of functions should lie in specific places, nor is health policy an unknown phenomenon. This was done when the health reform was adopted. It was done by the majority who adopted the hospital reform. At that time, the Minister of Health was given authority to determine the administrative offices of the five regional health establishments. On the part of regional health businesses, one would hardly have chosen the exact solution if one had been completely free. That's the way it is. We have some political framework conditions, and we need to implement this reform in a loyal and effective way. I think it's possible to find a way in this, based on the process I've outlined for Stortinget. In the revised national budget, I will report back my final conclusions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1184	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1190	We then go to voting on the issues listed on today's map. There is no voting theme in cases No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1199	During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward two proposals on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left and the Central Party. [[There are still representatives coming into the hall.]] During the debate, Mr Alvheim put forward two proposals on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the treatment of deaf and deaf-born cochlea implants is provided by the time limit laid down by the professional expertise and the hospital to treat the patients.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to design the legislation on the basis that Cochlea implant is considered to be an implantable hearing aid where the costs of purchasing such implants are covered by the budget of the Rikstrygdewerk in line with reimbursement for hearing aids.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1227	If you come into the room after a matter has been raised for parturition, there is no way to sit down and start wetting. I ask the representatives to pay attention to this. As the voting is today, this is not a problem, but there may be tight voting that makes us have problems maintaining the right balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1248	The Party of Advances, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1259	There is no voting theme in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1270	There is no record. Siv Jensen has asked for the floor to make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1275	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Kristin Halvorsen, Øystein Djupedal and myself I have the honour to propose the maximum rate of stay in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-21.ana.ud1494e1280	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
