ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e26	The representative John I. Alvheim, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Martin Kolberg, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative of Grethe Fossli on Thursday, 23 May from the representative of Modulf Auchan on health leave from 23 May until further notice The first alternate of Akershus County, Sverre Myrli, is prevented from meeting under the representative Grethe Fosslis leave because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund For More and Romesdal County: Rigmor Andersen Eide
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e71	Anita Orlund and Rigmor Andersen Eide are present and will take the seat. The representative, André Kijkestad, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e76	I am delighted to make two private suggestions. The first is on behalf of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Kenneth Svendsen and myself about the right of authorised taxi company to withdraw the taxi ticket/ticket for those who are convicted of violence and assault and those who have acted improperly in their work. Furthermore, there is a proposal on behalf of Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself for the maintenance of Nordfjord Sorenschrivarembete as a judge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e98	Today's setting concerns the organisation of work on resource crime, especially within the fisheries industry. A comprehensive committee shows that access to marine resources is a common, well-defined one, and that economic crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry undermine important interests in society and industry. It is therefore important that measures are put in place to strengthen resource control. So the entire committee agrees that resource crime is a serious problem and a problem we have to tackle. In all fights against crime, police and control authorities are dependent on getting tips from the audience. The co-operation administration has chosen to organise this in order to channel tips on law offences in the fishing industry through Ecocrime, in line with other forms of environmental crime, resource crime and financial crime. This system is now operational, and we've been confirmed that tips for the fishing industry are coming in that way. Tips related to the fishing industry are transferred unhandsomely to the Directorate of Fisheries, which has the competence to assess the tips more closely. Thus, after the government party can see, the intentions of the proposal are set out in Document No. 8:80 for 2001-2002 already achieved through the arrangements put in place by the Government. According to the Government Party, such a general tip phone will make an important contribution to the fight against financial crime, including in matters related to the fishing industry. At the same time, we will stress the importance of the system being widely known. When the government did not want to continue the special tipphone for the fishing industry, the so-called fish-fucking phone, the reason was partly that this phone was perceived by some as a stigmatisation of an entire industry, and partly that the threshold for coming with unprofessional and unreasonable tips had been too low. The threshold for giving unfounded or false tips to Økokrim or to the police is probably a bit higher, and that's actually the point. When it comes to real tips, the threshold should not be higher, at least not when the scheme is well known. The government party therefore welcomes the change in the organisation of the tips. At the same time, we have agreed that the tipping system in Økokrim should of course be evaluated after some time. Fisheries management is complicated and sometimes unwieldy for professionals and also for politicians. Therefore, the regulatory powers must be constantly aware of the signals coming from the industry on how the legislation works in practice. The Committee emphasises that the individual professional, especially in the case of shipowners and skippers, is responsible for complying with the laws and regulations, while the board of directors must take responsibility for the appropriateness of these regulations and in line with the objectives of the fisheries policy. A Joint Committee therefore proposes a Decision, I, that the Government should present in an appropriate manner a case on the work against resource crime in the fisheries sector and assess whether changes to the administrative regime are necessary and assess stricter sanctions for serious criminal offences. A majority in the Committee, representing a minority here in the Grand Chamber, have also proposed that the Government submit a separate case on the tipping phone – II of the proposal for a decision. In a letter from the Minister for Fisheries to the Committee attached to this setting, it is advised that the Ecokrim tipline should be evaluated after a period of time. We therefore see no reason to ask for a case on this matter. I would therefore recommend that the Government Party vote against II of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e117	Unfortunately, breach of legislation is also a problem in the fishing industry. Of course, the scope can be discussed, but at regular intervals there are issues that confirm that there is unwanted activity in some areas and illegalities. Of course, a complicated code may be a bit of a reason, but unfortunately I think it is a desire for easy profit and to circumvent this legislation that also helps to prevent a criminal offence. From the mid-1990s and beyond, more and more offences were detected. Of course, all the offences are serious, but in the fisheries industry there are some additional elements that make it even worse. In addition to keeping large values apart from turnover control and taxation, before this industry, the law will undermine a biological defence management, which will in the long run be harmful not least to the industry itself. In addition, we know that this industry is struggling with access to the market and that a particular kind of EU system, but also in other instances, follows this industry with arctic eyes. A lawbreaker will be a loving haven for those who want to shut Norwegian fish out of our most important market. Not least for the industry itself, it is important to get as clean a relationship as possible within the industry. This is why the previous Minister for Fisheries is making a major effort to bring these illegalities to life. In this work, he worked closely with the various fisheries organisations and the civil service. A number of measures were taken. The previous Minister for Fisheries agreed on these measures in this Chamber just a year ago, on 3 May last year. As far as I am aware, there was a great deal of detail about the various measures proposed by the Minister for Fisheries, including this tip phone that the Directorate for Fisheries had created for law offences in the fishing industry. This was one of the measures proposed, which had great support and which worked well. It was therefore a big surprise when the new minister closed this tip phone about before he had been handed over the keys from his predecessors, and without consulting anyone. There are no professional arguments to that decision. The phone was cheap to administer, it seemed simple, worked well, those who handled the phone, had insight into the matter, and the tip phone was well-known in the environment. Today, I believe most people, including the minister himself, think it was a loss to shut down this tip phone. A more general tip phone has been created. In my view, there is a bad hidden skin manoeuvre in the hands of the Prime Minister to cover the loss that has occurred here. Now, of course, it's too early to judge how the new tip phone will work, but one can at least conclude that it will not be more powerful than the previous one. Those who today accept these phones do not have competence in this area, and their jobs are just to register the tip and then send it to the Fisheries Directorate for treatment. Personally, I can't see what you've achieved with this, except that the focus has been on something other than fish fraud. Nor can I see that what has happened in this matter can be characterised as something other than mere political craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e130	Document No The 8-proposal that was put forward today will receive the treatment that a largely unanimous committee proposes. In this context, there is only reason to stress that a unanimous committee considers it not appropriate to restore its own telephone for the fishing industry after a common tip phone has been established under Ecocrim. In fact, this is also written by the representatives of the proposers in the committee position. I also believe that this whole room is concerned with following up what has been the intention, namely to bring the so-called fish fraud to life. This is a big, important and serious matter. It is most serious for the reason that it is involved in putting Norway as a fishing nation in some kind of embarrassment. I think you might want to be a little careful in this regard with regard to giving to the great prejudices and assessments of what is going to be the future using the Ecocrim's alternative phone. I also think it should be clear that fishing fraud is all about parts of the Norwegian fishing industry, not just the fishing stage. This must include several paragraphs, one should make it work. I think you can ask yourself the question whether there can't be any reason to have the necessary experience with Økokrim's phone, and also have the opportunity to assess whether it might be a better and more objective solution than having a telephone attached to the Fisheries Directorate, which is part of the fisheries' own management. Anyway, I think we'll all be able to get the necessary experience with the new solution that's been put in motion. I have not heard anyone who has expressed the desire to reunite in the work that a unanimous magnificence made up to bring this joke to life. What is important here is that this is not only economic crime, but also environmental crime in its worst form. And when the nation of Norway does everything it can to help set an international standard for environmental management and follow-up, and every day discusses concepts such as sustainability and growing conditions for existing species, we have to succeed in this area. Then I think that the tip phone is one of these tools that need to come, and that should be publicly known to anyone who wants to get tips without going the path of the local criminal authority. Then, in the debate, I have not heard that anyone has done so much that it is the legislation that creates fraud. I guess to some degree it can happen innocently. I think all parties are interested in cleaning it up and creating a transparent regulatory framework. But I think, unfortunately, most things have been done with consideration, and then in the further follow-up you have to gain the necessary experience to see how you can bring this to life. I think assessing punishment in this context is very important. Those who commit deliberate fraud, especially at the fishing stage, but also at all other stages, must be able to note this in such a way that they should not be particularly allowed to remain actors in the Norwegian fishing industry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e139	The detection of illegalities in the fishing industry received considerable attention in the autumn of 2000, including: triggered the opinions of fish buyer Odd Lorentzen on large-scale fish jacks in Dagbladet on 27 November of that year. The information that significant trawlers were loaded directly on board trailers without being registered anywhere peaked the news picture. Other illegalities detected in different contexts were overfishing and illegal discards of fish, rewriting on the final fishing species and size and reporting of catches from areas other than where the fish was caught. The current Minister of Fisheries Otto Gregussen had been given the likelihood that there was fraud and illegalities of an extent that was totally unacceptable. The Ministry announced an increase in control activities and a stronger response by the authorities. There was also broad agreement on the need for action in some key areas of action. As part of this work, a free tip telephone was established through the Fisheries Directorate on 1 January 2001 for enquiries into illegalities in the fishing industry. Later in the spring, the Stortinget dealt with legislative proposals on control measures and the Secretary of State for Fisheries’s statement on illegalities, control and measures in the fisheries sector. No political parties opposed the establishment or had critical comments on this tipphone. The Progress Party does not see it as an indication, but as an expression of social responsibility when citizens report criminal acts that undermine our resource management. The government has now established a general tip for economic crime and environmental crime as a real alternative to other schemes. Much can be said that a tipping scheme under the Ecocrim can be a decent tool in the fight against fish fraud. The information will be transmitted to the Directorate-General for Fisheries for evaluation and treatment. In this context, it is important to stress that all information received is controlled with respect to readability before any action is taken. The system shall be such as to ensure the legal certainty of the fishermen. Serious investigations may also help to eliminate unfounded suspicions and rumors. In the fight against fish fraud, this is a bundle of absolutely necessary measures that have been implemented and that are important and that concern the entire political environment. It is also the case that the Ecocrim tipline will be evaluated with experience reporting. And then we're going to follow up on how it's going forward, and it's my impression that this is taking very seriously in all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e150	This has gradually developed into a rather strange matter. The whole start, which many people have been in, last year, with an enormous emphasis on the phenomenon of fish fraud, what we now call economic crime and environmental crime in the fishing industry. This remark led, for example, to: In order for the government of Stoltenberg to set up its own fish fraud phone, a separate line at the Fisheries Directorate, where one could provide tips on the illegality of the fishing industry. This did not happen without protests. Not deleted. Some believed that this meant the suspension of a whole profession of lawbreakers, others more pragmatic and thought that this tipphone could be a tool for the government to be able to bring down serious violations of the administrative regime in the fishing industry. The phone turned out to be effective. To Dagbladet on 26 February, the state attorney in Troms, Lars Fause, said: ‘The short time the line was open resulted in ten reviews. It was a good tool in the fight against the cheaters." Then, of course, there were reactions after the Council of State turned off the fish-fucking phone almost before he had moved to the Council of State chair. As far as I understand the media lookups, there were also internal split reactions in the government party on how reasonable the decision was. The uprising eventually led to the Prime Minister going out and promising that a common telephone for economic crime and environmental crime would be created under Ecocrime. Then there were enough people who pulled their shoulders and thought; yes, they had no other choice. And more people thought, well, okay, that's probably not going to be the same thing, but it's going to be so much. At least that's what I thought. But then it turned out in February this year that no phone was created under the Ecocrim, and the flow of tips to the Fisheries Directorate on fraud in the fishing industry has, of course, turned upside down. On 27 February, however, four hours were taken from representatives Elvik, Arnesen and Solberg, who submitted the proposal we have today for consideration, until a press release announced that Økokrim is now creating a tip phone. The government's handling of this matter is not very elegant. However, the proposers have not considered it appropriate to create their own fish fraud phone now that the phone at Økokrim has finally come into place. That would be too stupid. But as the rest of the committee, we have noticed that this system will be evaluated, and we are looking forward to this evaluation. I think it's possible to be critical and constructive at the same time. Although I think it was unmistakably bad political craft to shut down the fish phone, I am prepared to be involved in the work against economic crime and environmental crime in the fisheries industry also in the future. Today, fish in the sea are a strictly regulated resource. Even if there are few – I don't think I've met anyone – who is happy with the quotas they've been allocated, no one can get through loopholes in the code or through direct violation of the code to get a larger share of the cake. Furthermore, as the representative, Mr Kristiansen, we must take into account the fact that the fishing industry is an export-oriented industry that depends on market confidence. At the same time, we're supposed to be so humble from this chair that we realize that the many regulations in the industry can also turn professionals into involuntary lawbreakers. The by-catch problem is often referred to in this way. But while we know that by-catch is difficult to control for the fisherman, we also know that this is a relationship in which it's simply being speculated in order to get more foresight. I must therefore say that I am pleased that the Committee unanimously endorses the proposal for a decision, calling for a case to be submitted on the work on resource crime in the fishing industry, and asking for an assessment of the need for changes in the administrative regime and an assessment of stricter sanctions against serious crime. It's an important proposal that Stortinget adopted today. I believe this is the necessary step forward in the fight against economic crime and environmental crime, and I am looking forward to the Storting getting a case on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e182	It might not be necessary to establish once again that the fishing industry is one of our most important industries and will be the same in the future. It is therefore important to have credibility both in relation to environmental aspects, in relation to the economy, in relation to quality and in relation to resource management. It is necessary in relation to the market, it is necessary in relation to the international community and it is necessary to take into account the reputation of the nation that proper resource management is ensured, and that illegalities are brought to life in any industry, and especially in an industry like this, where we manage a common stock, a vulnerable population, on which we are both largely economically dependent, and which is of great importance not least in the context of resources. Generally speaking, the clean conditions in the fishing industry are not to be overlooked, but of course, with the high economic values at stake, the temptation to circumvent regulations and different provisions could become too great for some. We know – and have seen examples of – that there is both under-reporting, that there is discarding, that there is tax evasion, for example. relative to customs duties. It is, of course, necessary and important that we do what we can to bring this to life, both in the interests of industry itself, in the interests of Norway's reputation as a fishing nation and in the interests of the vast majority of the fishing industry, namely those who act in a law-abiding manner and do their job as it should. It's very serious if we get a reputation as a nation that's cheating and illegalities and unreasonable resource management. It's very close to the situation. I think Norway has a good reputation as a fishing nation. It is also important to take care of it, and we must not forget in the situation and the debate we now have that the fishing industry has to deal with some complicated regulations and regulations that can make some people offenders without having thought it would be. So the investigation and reporting possibilities have to be used rationally, and it has to be arranged so that you don't get conditions in the industry that nobody wants, with reporting even for the smallest thing. It hasn't been the situation either. In my opinion, the tip phone actually represented a good input into the debate against fish fraud. Of course, you can discuss what the best means are. It must also be done at all times, both by the authorities and by the industry itself. I have also registered that, among other things. under the responsibility of the ethics project for which the industry itself has taken the initiative, even after the meeting with the Minister for Fisheries, referred to in the letter. I think that's good. This is a work that should be focused on in the future, along with other measures that can help strengthen Norway’s credibility as a fishing nation and that can help us overcome what may occur from cheating in the industry. With regard to the termination of the tip phone, I think we can all simply admit that it was an obvious bomb that it was done so quickly after the new government joined. It is confirmed that it is necessary to set up a new Ecocrim tip phone, where Ecocrim does not act as a central table for the Directorate of Fisheries, as all enquiries are forwarded directly to the Directorate of Fisheries where the old tip phone was located. It confirms the impression that Ecocrim acts as a central table. And to be honest, ecocrim has other and more important things to do than be a central board for the old tip phone. I think that's too bad. But as previous speakers have said, let's now be past, and let's try together to agree that what is now important is to try to get rid of what is being done by illegalities in this industry, and that we can gather on measures that can help to get the best management possible, so that the industry can maintain and strengthen its reputation. In this context, all contributions are received with thanks. I also believe this hall is saying that we are constructive and are fellow players in a work to get better conditions in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e193	Let me immediately join in the final conclusion that the representative, Mr Enoksen, has just made. And there is also broad agreement between the Storting, the Government and the industry on the objectives of Norwegian fisheries policy related to the long-term, sustainable use of marine resources. The marine species are a renewable but not inexhaustible capital that offers great opportunities and, with today's fishing technology, requires an equal degree of responsibility for not destroying the possibilities for future generations, as both the case-rapporteur and the committee leader were involved in their contributions. From the Government side, we are constantly working to facilitate the best possible use of the blue field within these frameworks. A responsible fisheries management requires a firm hand in relation to financial crime and environmental crime. Resource control in the fishing industry is therefore a high priority task for the Government, as it was for the previous one. We want to address this issue broadly, and the aim is to bring the illegalities to life. Serious tips on illegalities, no matter how the authorities become aware of them, are given great importance in this regard by the Government. All forms of economic crime shall be combated by the means available. This also applies, of course, in the fisheries industry. Responsible citizens must be able to address the authorities and contribute to the fight against crime. I'm recording the disagreement around the so-called tip phone. My starting point is that economic crime as well as environmental crime are police matters, and in this way the tip phone is just one of several instruments. However, it is important that we do not stigmatise a single industry, and on this basis the Government has set up a tipphone for economic crime and environmental crime. The scheme is managed by Økokrim and is intended as a real alternative to other tip telephone systems, including the so-called fish phone under the Directorate of Fisheries. The Ecocrime tipper has been in operation since February 2002, and specific requests for fishing crime are sent to the Directorate for Fisheries for further treatment, as I have explained in my letter to the Committee. I also point out that the Fisheries Directorate received more than 150 tips from January–October 2001, of which only 15 led to a police report. To date, Ecokrim has received 10 tips, 8 of which have been sent to the Directorate for Fisheries for treatment before any police report. Both phones are equally accessible. The aim is to evaluate the Ecocrim tipping phone system after a certain period of time, as I record the Committee's emphasis in its recommendation. In February this year, I held a meeting with industry organisations and all key actors in the resource control area to highlight the breadth of the work on ethics and illegalities in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The meeting provided useful information on the impact of measures taken and the way forward in the fight against illegality. On 19 June I called for a new meeting to ensure the necessary focus and progress in this work, and I will of course take with me the views that come there and that have come in the position. The work on attitudes in this industry is central here. Without cleaning up your own ranks and setting a standard that is useful for today’s and future generations, and that builds up under the overall objectives of the authorities, the actions we take from the centre will have little impact. I'm very concerned about this, and we're in a good dialogue with the industry about this. Both the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the aquaculture industry, the farming industry and the fishing industry have put ethics on the agenda, and have launched their own actions and projects in this context. The size decided in June 2001 to tighten up the sanctions framework in key areas of fisheries legislation, as the representative of Kristiansen was involved in his intervention. At the same time, the prosecution authority has placed greater emphasis on assessing illegalities in the field of fisheries, even in the light of the provisions of the Criminal Code, in order to emphasise the seriousness of these infringements. Furthermore, the management has made use of a statutory option to temporarily or permanently exclude operators from business activities where there are serious or repeated infringements of fisheries legislation. At the same time, the police and prosecution authorities have intensified their efforts to shorten the process of dealing with fisheries-related issues. I have great faith in these measures, but the anti-crime effect will necessarily only be shown in the future. An administrative challenge is to design a regulatory framework to ensure profitability, fairness within a complex fleet group and sustainability in the long term, while at the same time being sufficiently user-friendly and thus simple and transparent for the individual operator. It is constantly being worked on in the fisheries management. And let me mention here one important reform: the introduction of aggregate quotas for vessels less than 15 meters. The regulatory framework is e.g.: in that area, and thus has made it easier for fishermen to deal with everyday life. If this is the way to go for other groups as well, time gets to show. The fishing industry is, of course, a premiscuous provider of legislation, and I attach great importance to the experience gained by industry operators with this legislation. However, the legislation cannot be an excuse for circumvention of the law, as has been stated by several speakers. Finally, in this context, Økokrim’s tip phone is one element, one of several contributions to the fight against crime. However, the most important contributions are in my opinion, which I have had, attitudes and a coordinated and effective use of public instruments. After today's debate, I see that the Business Committee, the Stortinget and the Government agree. I will come back to Stortinget in line with the recommendations that come from Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e222	Now it is the case that the case we are dealing with today is about the tip phone. However, I understand that the Minister for Fisheries chose to talk about more general things. Nevertheless, it is the tip phone that is the theme today. Although everyone else sees that it was a loss to shut down the tipphone, and that it was only political work that led to this action, I do not expect the Minister of Fisheries to admit it here today. Therefore, I would like to ask you a question about something else. As far as I have come with me, there has so far been only one argument that this phone was closed, namely that it should be a ‘declaration’ to suggest that there was a breach of the law. The change that has now occurred is that one has created a new phone at Økokrim. There the cases are not dealt with, one only accepts the tip, and then it is forwarded untreated to the Fisheries Directorate. What I'm asking is whether the Minister of Fisheries can explain why a tip that goes directly to the Directorate of Fisheries is ‘declaration’, but if the same tip is first sent to Ecocrim, and then left untreated to the Directorate of Fisheries, it is suddenly no longer a form of ‘declaration’. It would be a good idea to get it further clarified as this is so far in the debate that the only argument that has been put forward for shutting down the phone that everyone knows worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e233	There are two things I think it is important to register after the debate, and that are also the answer to the question. There may be different perceptions of where this phone should be located, but at the same time there is a broad consensus that there is no need for more than one. I fully understand that the majority of the committee has the views it has, relating to whether it should be in Bergen or here. But I am pleased that it is agreed that this is a police matter. This will be dealt with by the police in due course, but they will need to draw on the expertise available. In fact, I think it is a crucial argument to take into account that such a phone was originally set up, it had a stigmatizing effect on the industry because it is treated differently from other economic crime and environmental crime. And for me, it's important that we don't make this a matter of fish fraud, because fish fraud indicates a less serious degree of crime than economic crime and environmental crime. We're going to evaluate this and come back to Stortinget with it, and I think we're going to take with us that there were over 150 tips for the Fisheries Directorate, of which only 15 led to a police report. I'm not going to go in and evaluate the requests that came, but it's a fact that only 10 pst. of which led to a police report.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e241	I wonder if the answer just given by the Council of State means that the Council of State goes back on saying that a tip phone under the Directorate of Fisheries is ‘declaration’, while one under the Ecocrim is not. Then I wonder one more thing. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State wrote: ‘The aim is to evaluate the Eco Krim’s tipline after a certain period of time.’ Will the Council of State in this evaluation also include an assessment of the experience with the fish fraud phone?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e253	With regard to this evaluation that I will return to Stortinget, I will stick to what I have said in a letter to the committee, and that committee agrees, and I will ask for a broad evaluation of the tipline system. I'll come back to that when the time is ripe for it. However, I note that there are different views relating to both the previous telephone system and the current one. I am comfortable with the conclusion that the Stortinget is drawing today, and I do not have any more comments on it, but I emphasise that, as Minister for Fisheries, I focus on working constructively with the industry to combat economic crime and environmental crime, which I consider to be any fraud and fantasy associated with the fishing industry. And I think it's very important that we focus on this being as serious environmental crime and economic crime as any other matter, and that it's a matter for the police and the judiciary and not just for the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e260	I agree with the Minister for Fisheries that crime and criminal acts are of course a matter for the police and the judiciary. However, the tip phone set up at Ecokrim is nothing more than a central table for the Directorate of Fisheries, as all enquiries are passed on unprocessed and only treated by Ecokrim after a report by the Directorate of Fisheries. So really there's no big difference. I understand that the Minister for Fisheries has a need to defend and explain his actions, but the starting point for the Minister for Fisheries was that he had absolutely no intention of setting up any compensation for the regular fish phone. I don't like the description, was the comment that was used by the Minister for Fisheries when the tip phone was closed. And we all know the story before finally there came a tip phone in place at Økokrim, but now let it lie in this round – I won't rip any more in it. My point is that I believe the threshold for contacting Økokrim is significantly higher than the threshold for contacting the Directorate of Fisheries. This is probably the main reason why the number of tips has dropped as much as they do. And of course, there's two ways to think about it. We can view it as positive that you only make contact in the most serious cases, or that you have a higher threshold to make contact. On the one hand, it could be positive. However, when, as the Minister for Fisheries says, only 15 out of 140 reported cases led to notification, it also shows something else. It shows that what in many cases boils below the surface of the fishing industry, a suspicion that others are cheating, has in most cases been ruled out. It is very positive for the industry that there are actually only 15 out of 140 cases that have led to a police report, and that the vast majority of cases where fraud is suspected have been cancelled by the authorities. It's good for the industry. Does not the Minister for Fisheries also see that aspect, and will he facilitate the fact that the authorities also have a responsibility to disclaim suspicions of fraud where, in fact, there has been no illegality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e269	I have to say that the views expressed by the representative, Mr Enoxen, relating to the need to get rid of fraud are an important part of my argument as well. It's just the fact that this comes in over 150 tips that are sorted down to 140 tips – of which just 10 pst. is considered serious and leads to a police report — which helps to stigmatise an industry. At the same time, I agree with the representative, Mr Enoksen, that it is important to deny that a good part of what is claimed was unfounded. I am not sure if the threshold is higher in relation to Ecocrim in relation to the real issues, but it is possible that it has a sorting effect on the tips that prove not to be serious. It was a little too much of a purpose, because it doesn't help stigmatizing to the same extent as a phone that only goes to the administration. But it is not quite certain that the tips on the serious breaches of the legislation, which will lead to a police report, have fallen, because there were 15 tips for the Directorate of Fisheries of more than 150 who led to a police report. As of that date, ten tips have been received for Ecocrim, eight of which are sent to the Directorate for Further Treatment after the first assessment to Ecocrim. So we're going to be down to half in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e276	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e286	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e293	Åsa Elvik – explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e296	In the light of the debate and the signal from the Council of State, I ask that the second recommendation be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e301	It's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e312	Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that there is a slight typographical error in the first line under I. It says, "The government asks in its own way...", and it means in a new way, "by bait". It must be ‘in an appropriate way’ – to avoid any possible misunderstanding, as it is precisely the fishing industry that is involved!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-23.ana.ud632e323	II of the proposal for a decision has been converted into a transmission proposal. II then reads as amended:
