ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e41	The representative of Inga Marte Thorkildsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e44	On behalf of myself, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Anne Helen Rui and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, I have the pleasure of promoting a Document No. 8-proposals for legislative changes to ensure medical evaluation, medical treatment or monitoring, if appropriate, of those who are at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e49	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e52	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make suggestions to surrender some of the outstanding claims to Oslo Airport A/S.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e57	The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e60	On behalf of the representatives Eli Sollied Överaas, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I will make proposals for transparency in the proceedings of regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e80	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e97	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e117	During the spring, the Stortinget will deal with a major report on the care of the elderly. The government has said that it will present a message summarising the impact of the older people’s initiative adopted by the Stortinge in 1997. The government has also said that the Storing Message should look forward. The government’s decision to provide a separate forecast of the situation in the care of the elderly is clear in line with the wishes of the Stortinge. Good and dignified care for the elderly is a fundamental asset of well-being. Many older people still experience unworthy services in the care of the elderly. It's unworthy of Norway. For this reason, the treatment of the new EEAS is very important in the spring. This interpellation aims to involve the Storting in a debate already in advance of the completion of the Government's notification. Interpellence can therefore also be understood as an initiative for broad cooperation in the Grand Duchy to do something for those who do not today receive what they deserve, and, of course, to ensure good quality for all those who will gradually need care for the elderly. From many quarters it is claimed that the ageing effort adopted in 1997 has failed. The Labour Party does not agree. I have recently had the pleasure of traveling around many places in the country, and I have visited and seen many new nursing homes and nursing homes that have been realized through the 1997 retirement plan. It's been inspiring. Many older people have gained a significant improvement in the quality of life as a result of measures taken in the wake of the ageing plan. Local authorities have been strongly criticised for their over-estimated commitment to the construction of nursing homes and too little to build a sufficient number of nursing homes. I agree that there is a need for more hospitals, but I believe that the criticism of the municipalities that they have built a significant number of nursing homes is exaggerated. Firstly, I sincerely believe that the municipalities have followed strong political signals about investing in nursing homes. In addition, many people who have received such a good offer through the nursing home and home care that they do not need a sick home. It is clearly wrong to claim that care homes have consistently been bombed on the target population. At the same time, I believe that there is every now and then a basis for claiming that the nursing homes are often not suitable for offering good luck and care. From this point of view, it can be seen that a main task for the Government in the forthcoming big business announcement will be to outline how the municipalities that still have too few health homes can meet this need in such a way that they are not discriminated against in relation to the municipalities that have already implemented the development. So I assume that this spring's downgrading treatment will end with a clear strategy to ensure that all municipalities will have the number of places of care they need to meet the norm, which is a coverage of 25 pst. of all residents over 80 years of age. In practice, this applies in particular to the construction of hospitals. But care for the elderly is not good even if the buildings are good. A new initiative must now be taken in the care of the elderly. We now need to provide an elderly care that is professionally good for everyone. Reports show that for many older people today, basic welfare benefits are not covered. The size must commit itself that this cannot continue. The question is, how will we proceed to get it done? I believe a fundamental recognition is important: the municipalities do not offer poor care for the elderly because the municipal politicians lack the same strong social commitment that we have in this room. If care for the elderly is to be continuously strengthened, the financial capacity of municipalities to provide care must also be strengthened, because: Increased quality of care for the elderly is closely linked to the number of professionals who work in care at all times. I have seen that the Minister of Social Affairs is considering strengthening the quality regulation. I will not oppose it if the Minister of Social Affairs is credible in explaining how the municipalities are to be able to comply with the regulations. However, if the regulation is to be used to further dilute municipal priority deficits, the Minister of Social Affairs cannot count on the Workers' Party's support. An offensive invitation to cooperation with Kommune-Norway may also form the basis for introducing a quality regulation into the home-based care system, as well as the basis for allowing health supervision to put power behind its supervision. Many call for the introduction of a minimum standard for staffing in the care of the elderly. I also believe that this could be an appropriate proposal, but also that introduced in ‘war’ with the municipalities. For this reason, I would like to challenge the Social Minister very clearly: how will she and the Government involve the municipal sector in the work she is now going to do with the forthcoming report on the care of the elderly? We know that the time coming is marked by an increasing number of older people, and we are getting older. Many of these will need professional care for the elderly. A professionally good care for the elderly needs professionals. We are facing a formidable recruitment challenge. Recruitment is closely related to pay and employment. Without better pay and employment than we find in the care of the elderly today, we will not succeed. A professional standard has to be set. In Oslo, you are not allowed to drive a cab without having qualified by taking the ‘Droskey’. But in Oslo's old age care you can start the day. This is why the forthcoming Single European Act must address the recruitment challenge thoroughly. What should be our strategy to raise the status of elderly care as a job? I don't think we can succeed without a future shaped by employees who can often say to themselves: I do an important job, I know my profession and know what I'm doing. I am in favour of the professional content of what we do – and, perhaps most importantly, my work is valued by society. We are unfortunately far away from such a reality today. With the risk of being pompous, I would say that the quality of any society can really be measured by the ability of society to give its elderly a care of dignity. Therefore, the policy focus on quality, content and ethics in the care of the elderly is fundamental. That is why I also ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions: What can we do to improve the quality of Norwegian care for the elderly? Do we simply need a quality reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e147	Yes, there is a need for a quality reform in Norwegian care for the elderly, and the government is already fully engaged in this work. The starting point for quality work must be the individual, that older people in need of assistance are offered, that the assistance is adapted to the individual's needs for care and that the assistance takes care of the individual's personal integrity and dignity. We are about to complete the action plan for the care of the elderly. The Elder Plan has helped to improve the building conditions for better care for the elderly. Hospitals are undergoing significant standard raising, which is necessary in order to ensure better living conditions for the elderly — as single rooms with a private bath and better working conditions for employees. We know that building conditions affect quality. A recent report from SINTEF shows that new ways of building, unless housing groups, provide greater proximity between residents and caregivers, and that both residents and relatives experience this as a quality boost. The challenge now will be to fill the new hospitals and nursing homes with high-quality services. The cancellation will soon receive a big message about the completion of the old-age plan. I will also present in this report the further work on improving the quality of services, and aim for the next year to present a separate communication on the content and quality of care for the elderly. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that people who need it are provided with care and care services and that they are of good quality. The State provides municipalities with a framework through laws, regulations and administrative provisions, and is through the county councils for the supervision of services. Today, we have a quality directive on nursing homes, which requires municipalities to set up systems to ensure that users of care services are satisfied with basic needs. For services regulated by the Social Services Act, such as nursing homes and home care services, there is no regulation but guidelines. The regulation and guidelines apply to quality system requirements. In addition, there is a more non-obligatory guide on the content of the services themselves. This is unforgiving for both the municipalities and the users. I want to draw up an overall quality regulation to clarify to the municipalities and users the requirements that should be imposed on the content of the services, whether the municipality itself provides them or orders them from others. Clear quality standards that oblige municipalities are important not least in order to ensure a good offer to patients who are not themselves able to take care of their own interests. We also see that many municipalities are struggling to meet the requirements of good practice, and that this can lead to legal certainty for the users. In order to help improve the procedures of the municipalities, we have developed a process guide for care services that describes the requirements for good practice in a simple and transparent way. The Social and Health Directorate will follow-up on this. I want to strengthen the supervisory authority. From 1 January 2003, the State Health Authority will also be given overall responsibility for the social services, which represent a large proportion of the elderly. From the same time, supplementary supervision of services provided outside institutions under the Social Services Act will also be carried out. Supervision works and produces results. The rule is that municipalities address deficiencies and deviations pointed out by the supervisory authorities, so that the services change to the best of the user. But unfortunately there are also some cases where the municipalities do not comply with the supervision. It is important that supervision is able to follow up, and I am now looking at the means of supervision and whether supervision should also have access to e.g.: imposing fines in cases of non-compliance. I also look at how the supervision is to be carried out, and have addressed to the Health Inspectorate the need for more unannounced supervision. As part of the supervisory activities, the Health Authority conducts studies that provide valuable knowledge for the development of better services. Health surveillance has just published a report on the supervision of health services by county doctors for old-age dentures, which, despite good quality and extensive action in many municipalities, reveals a serious failure in the supply of dentures. A recent survey has also been carried out by the National Expertise Centre for Age Judiciary, which shows that the legal certainty of this group is not sufficiently ensured. This issue has been discussed at least throughout the 1990s, and I think it is high time that the need for regulatory regulation was met. I would therefore like to send a comprehensive proposal to consult during the spring on the legal regulation of the use of coercion and other measures without the agreement of the services of people with dementia. The aim is to prevent and limit the use of coercive measures in the care of dementes. At the same time, we need to ensure that coercive measures which are necessary in the light of professional and ethical considerations in order to ensure the necessary care and care and to prevent them from harming themselves or others are regulated. Measures are also needed to ensure adequate professional investigation and diagnosis of dementia. Where coercion is used in the provision of services, knowledge plays a central role. International studies show that training of staff in organisation for the least possible use of coercion, ethics and law considerably reduces the use of physical coercive measures. But it is also the case that commitment and ability to show respect for other people must go hand in hand with the professional competence of the service providers. My goal is to strengthen the proportion of staff with vocational training and to give priority to continuing training of personnel and actions towards unskilled persons. We can compare two nursing homes with the same economic conditions and equivalent premises and yet see that the quality of the individual's supply is higher in one hospital than in the other. Why? – Because quality is also about good management, competence, attitudes and organisation. Adequate financial resources are of course a prerequisite for quality, but there are several factors that need to be strengthened in order to improve quality. That is why I want to focus on quality development and management in health and social services. Good management is also of central importance in contributing to the development of employment and working conditions that make employees want to stay at work and that other workers want to stay there. This returns a better quality for the users. A report by the consulting firm Agenda highlights that good management and working environment can be crucial in order to deliver good services in a cost-effective way. Quality is also about being offered services at the right level. The cooperation between hospitals and municipalities must function in such a way that ready-to-print patients with care needs are discharged from hospitals and taken care of by the care services in the municipalities. The Ministry is now working to amend the municipal payment regulation for patients who have been treated in order to stimulate better cooperation. To achieve the objective of simpler and better care for the elderly, we also need to look at the law that governs the sector. It is an objective for me that legislation ensures universal services through common priorities and objectives for both health and social services. I want the regulation of services to be easy to understand for users and easy to practice for municipalities. Today’s system of one healthcare law and another social services law makes it difficult for users to inform themselves about their rights and exercise their rights through complaints. Through the organisation of central social and health management, we have taken the first steps towards equal treatment, complaint and supervision. It is necessary to improve the quality of treatment in municipalities. Common legislation combined with increased training will be important contributions. This work will be followed up by the fact that, as mentioned above, we will have a common system of supervision for care services under the Local Health and Social Services Act as of 1 January 2003. I also want to work to ensure that we have the same complaint rules in this field, so that the user should never be in doubt about what to complain about and where to address his complaint. We need to provide consistent and comprehensive quality services to all older people, whether they live in nursing homes, old-age homes, in their own original home or in nursing homes. The needs of the user and not the place of residence shall determine the services to be provided and the legislation applicable. The aim must therefore be to regulate similar services in the same way whether you live in a nursing home or in your own home. I also want to review today's legislation on financial and user payment schemes with critical eyes. It's e.g. large differences in user payment schemes between institutions and nursing homes even where the same type of service is provided. It must be an objective that we should have user payment schemes that are understandable to users and relatives, who are perceived to be fair. It may be difficult for users to understand that there must be two completely different self-payment schemes where similar services are provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e185	Let me first thank you for the answer. I stand here with the Health Inspectorate's supervisory notice for 2001, that is the last supervisory notice. On page 6 a joint monitoring of the provision of health care to the elderly is reported in Buskerud, and the incidence is: ‘Despite the time needed to correct defects and deficiencies, an oversight from Buskerud shows unsatisfactory conditions for many older people. Often they don't get to lie down and get up when they want to." This is a small example of a message that could be drawn from more examples. I believe that a key issue we are now facing in the debate is why this is happening. Why do we get such a notification of supervision for 2001 after the ageing effort adopted in 1997 has been going on for several years? Why does what happens happen, for example? in Buskerud? And I don't think Buskerud stands out. Is there a lack of will, or is there a lack of ability in Kommune-Norway? That is what I think is at the heart of the debate that we have to decide on in the coming time. I agree with the Social Minister that this is not just about money. This is about lack of management, lack of competence and lack of attitudes. But it's also about lack of money. When an assistant nurse goes alone on the night shift with responsibility for 20-30 residents, many of whom are dying, it cannot be said that the problem is a lack of management. The problem is a lack of people. If more people are to work in such situations, municipalities must have a stronger financial backbone to hire more people and to recruit the right professional competence. Care in the final phase of life acts, for example: about time to sit down. That's why I think it's going to be a crossroads when the government comes up with a big message about the care of the elderly, about the government's ability to link the need for skills, management, attitudes, etc., to meet what I think is the will of the Stortinge, and signal that this is also about continuing the strong commitment that has been made to the local economy to achieve fundamental goals in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e203	I am very pleased with this interpellation – I can't hide it – because it makes visible and shows that it is more than the government that is concerned with the care of the elderly and the quality of it. The questions are, why is there a breach anyway? Why is there unworthiness in the care of the elderly? I think the answer is complex and difficult, and at the same time I want to say that it is not – as the representative Hanssen also mentioned – so that the money or the number of hands alone is the answer. Kommune-Norge has basically the same framework conditions, and most municipalities in our country have good and worthy care. We also see that the supervision actually works when it is revealed that it is broken and that it is imposed. It is the municipalities that have operational responsibilities, but at the same time it is important that we provide the framework conditions centrally in terms of both law and supervisory authorities, and also facilitate recruitment. My serious concern at the moment is that we get so much negative focus on care for the elderly – despite the many good examples – that it helps to weaken recruitment. We have our own plan of recruitment with regard to health and social workers. We have a campaign going on, and we're going to keep working and looking at it. We will also have close cooperation with the people involved and involve them in the further work, both the user organisations, the professional organisations, where this work has already been started, the municipalities, with visits outside, and also the Municipal Councils' Central Association, of course, to bring them into the work we are already doing in relation to the care of the elderly. It is also important that the Stortinge is involved in a conversation and discussion when we give ourselves a skipper in the care of the elderly and get on more regular trips, because we are always going to have older people, and we are going to have to make sure that we have good and dignified care for the elderly. Then it is that all forces must contribute. But we also have to be able to have a good discussion about how we can make even assumptions so that municipalities can plan within what goes on money and personnel, and making good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e214	I think it is very important to hold on to what the representative Hanssen had to say, that the older people's effort adopted in 1997 has not been a failure. Many municipalities have made a great effort to meet expectations. They deserve praise and not rice for it. I don't think the municipalities now need fines, they need money. It may seem that we have a common political goal at Stortinget that we must now give room to improve the quality of care for the elderly, but it is not given that we agree as to how to achieve the goal. Now we have to seriously focus on content and not just the number. There is content that will be the quality stamp of a good care for the elderly. I think there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget that good care for the elderly is about choice of value. If we are to prevent loneliness and isolation, if we are to prevent malnutrition and morbidity, we need sufficient people and competences. In my opinion, this is a lot about giving elderly care a different status. This will make it easier to recruit professionals and bring more medical expertise into the care system. Good quality work takes time. The working party is of the opinion that the municipalities themselves are the best providers of quality, given that they get resources for it. The working party does not wish to solve the challenges of putting the old into tender. We are of the opinion that the outsourcing of competition is very difficult in terms of care. Good care and care are largely about time, but it is also about money. We fear that minimum standards in the form of too few people will be the result of competitive outsourcing. There are no convincing good results from the experiments we know, either here in Oslo or for example. in Denmark, where the private sector of home services has recently found itself too low to be able to cope with profits. Prices must be up by 30 pst. This is not surprising," says Finn Heizelmann, Director of the Service Development Institute. He goes on to say: it is difficult to save on the competitive outsourcing of soft care services, because it is time for the citizen who is crucial for service and quality. This believes the Workers' Party is part of the core of the matter. The backbone of our common well-being is services provided by government employees. That's where the center of gravity still has to be. The Workers' Party is opposed to privatisation because it means that the public disclaims the responsibility for giving everyone an equal offer. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that municipalities do not organise themselves away from governance and control over well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e227	In this case, the Minister of Social Affairs has also shown that she is a minister for the users of the services. There is a need for a quality reform in Norwegian care for the elderly, and the government is in the process of doing so. A quality reform will provide a starting point for both older people and municipalities to know what level to expect. However, it must be assumed that care for the elderly in Norway is very good. Senior care employees do a fantastic job to give the user a decent old age. As a result, the meeting with the care of the elderly is largely a positive experience for both users and their relatives. Last week we saw older people from Stavanger and Bærum being received at the hospital in Spain. A long and good and warm stay awaits them there. This is an offer that one just a few years ago looked at as utopias, and as I think they themselves had never dreamed they would get. But it is also an image of the challenges we face. Older people and their relatives will have greater expectations both that the offer is there when the need arises, and not least for a person to receive flexible and personalized offers. I hope that the Government in its work on its own big message on quality in care for the elderly will focus on this aspect, which I am not concerned about, given the Minister's sense of tailoring. There is a link between quality and economics. But that's not the only connection. The surveys carried out in municipalities show that hospitals with equal conditions have different levels of supply. Then there is also a management issue at both institutional and municipal level. Quality regulations will force municipalities to introduce quality assurance measures. Supervisory responsibilities will be strengthened. It's positive. By means of constructive supervision, users and relatives of individual institutions and municipalities will be able to feel confident that quality requirements are being met. Each leader will receive constructive feedback on which areas are good and where improvements are possible. In this work, it is important that supervision, and not least the feedback on supervisory results, be carried out in such a way as to create dialogue and trust between the supervisory authorities and those under control. We've seen examples of the opposite. I broadly agree with the views of the inter-pellant on the reform of the elderly and its follow-up. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party opens up broad cooperation, and that means that it is a good idea for us to be able to continue the historical and political consensus that underpins the elderly reform both in the follow-up to the ageing campaign and in the quality announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e240	I think it's too strong when the Minister of Social Affairs says that the vast majority of Norwegian municipalities have good care for the elderly. I don't think that's right. There are several aspects that we need to consider if we are to get a decent care for the elderly, in which we are all interested. And I want to start with the first, that's to change attitudes to older and older sick people. The wave of fire is a negatively charged concept. And when we hear and read about municipalities that complain that the resources used in the care of the elderly are affecting the growth of children and young people, we blame the elderly who are often denied a feeling of guilt, including in the media, that they want to die as soon as possible because they do not want their grandchildren to grow up worse because of their money consumption. And when we recently heard from the nursing school in Stavanger that a large part of the students there say that it's not cool enough to work in the care of the elderly because these people are going to die anyway, yes, then we've come very far towards a negative attitude towards older people who want to reproduce and have consequences across the board. Point two, which I think we need to look at, is a state funding of the care of the elderly. And until that happens, we have to be able to do the same thing as we do in kindergartens: let the municipal grant and the state grant go in as a direct transfer from the state to the municipalities, so that the municipalities have the means to make the care of the elderly better. If we get full government funding, we also have the option of freedom of choice for the elderly sick – they can choose the institution they want to be at. I hope we don't get too far in too long, and this government should facilitate such a development. What's the problem today, and as little has been talked about, at least on the part of the social minister, is the manning at our nursing home today. It is simply too poor; it is not much higher than it was in the 1970s, and the age difference between patients today and that time is away from 15 to 20 years, and we get a stronger and stronger intensive treatment of patients after they have been discharged from hospitals. It simply lacks hands in our public institutions. The Minister of Social Affairs said very little about this. And I want to challenge the Minister of Social Affairs: will one in this message that comes to the Stortinget also consider proposing a minimum crew at our public health home? And finally, I'm opposed to starting to fine the municipalities. There will be no more money from it – neither will care. I would like the Stortinget to adopt an Elder Caregiver's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e255	I would first like to make it clear that from the SV it is important that the old-age reform, which concerns the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes, is continued so that the municipalities achieve the coverage that Stortinget provided. We believe that the state still has to contribute financially to get this done. So I share the interpellant's views in this area. In order to ensure that this reform does not just become a housing reform, it is essential, in the SV's view, to ensure good quality and decent standards of the provision of old, sick and nursing sheep, both in nursing homes, in nursing homes and in home-based care. In other words, we need a quality reform. The Minister of Social Affairs was in his intervention on several important measures to which one can immediately join. But I still think that there is a clear flaw in what the government is presenting, and that is the question of manning. All the measures mentioned by the Minister of Social Affairs depend on our having a sufficient number of hands to carry out the enormously important social tasks that we have in the care of the elderly. We know that we already have a shortage of people in the care sector. And everything suggests that this situation might get worse. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that in 2010, Norway will be lacking in 12,000 year-old jobs only in the case of help nurses. Today's figure is approx. 3,000. In the case of nurses, a recent survey conducted by the Telemark College of Nurses shows that less than 10 pst. Of these, they want to work in the care of the elderly after having completed their education, so that it can also become precarious here. I'm afraid here we are facing what I would call a ticking bomb, and that in a few years' time, the media we've seen in the last few weeks about unworthy situations in the care of the elderly may become more – and perhaps worse. It is therefore essential that the Government and the Stortinge are given much greater attention to the recruitment crisis in the care sector. And to reverse this negative development, in my opinion, there are two important assumptions. One premise is to raise the level of pay for these groups, and the other is a higher basic staff in the care of the elderly and caregivers. These quality measures have a price, and that's what I want most from the Council of State. How does the Government intend to finance this increased quality? The debate here in the Chamber has now shown that the Government has solid support in Stortinget if it wants to give municipalities an economic boost to get this quality increase in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e272	The reform of the elderly has been a major reform, on which we have a broad political agreement. It is invested over 30 billion kroner in nursing homes and sick homes. Nevertheless, it is reported that there is still a need for more places and that the coverage in relation to needs has not been better. Something has to be done wrong. At the same time as we're looking for reasons that the result hasn't been as expected, it's a fact that there's been a significant standard rise, and that many more have got one. A message I have received from Kommune-Noreg is that in the conversion of institutions there has been a lot of pain about centimeters instead of looking for decent and practical solutions. The government will come back with its own case to the Storting on the completion and completion of the older reforms. Then we'll hopefully get answers to this and more questions that we're asking. As important as the physical upgrading we are about to complete is the operation and care of care and care. The quality of care for the elderly is far more than good buildings and modern rooms. There's a custom need for care, from those who need someone to look into one another at a time, to those who have to hold a hand in the final phase of life. Others need spiritual help and comfort, perhaps in connection with prayer. No one should have to experience that this is difficult to achieve. This has to do with the absolute respect for human beings. The life and family situation of those living in a nursing home or in a nursing home is different. Some are often visited, some are never visited. Cooperation with voluntary teams and organisations will be an important complement to the care services for which the municipality has a basic responsibility. In order for municipalities to operate the old-age reform alongside all other important tasks, they must be provided with means to enable them to take care of the elderly whom I believe all decent politicians want. Finally, I would like to point out that there are a good number of older people who are in a situation of life and family that make them take care of in the world, even though it is less often than it was a few years ago. The public should actively contribute to the smooth functioning of this home care system. Let me finish by saying that today we heard on NRK Radio a bomb of news. We heard the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen tell us that now the Labour Party wanted to go in to complete the 25pst coverage. But there was a large majority in Stortinget for already last fall. There was a Christian People's Party with and – as far as I think – also the Workers' Party. So welcome after – when one discovers what one has been on. To put it this way, recycled news, old news, can be good news.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e291	If the Workers' Party and the Advance Party had been more concerned with the quality and content of care for the elderly in the previous ageing period, the municipalities would have been more involved today. Then they had a greater chance of leading development and focusing on the good examples to recruit more people for this field. The coordination of supervision between hospitals and the care services or the quality regulations that both the elderly, their relatives and their family members could adhere to would then have been in place. St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000 Care 2000 contained proposals in this area. The message was one year in Stortinget – and was later well preserved by the labor party government of which Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was part. The central party believes it is good that the social minister now follows up quickly a work where, unfortunately, the last two years have happened too little. Interpellanten is busy building trust in the municipalities through a strengthened municipal economy and a worthy end to the old age plan. First, one third of municipalities report cuts in care, school and culture now in 2002. Resources must be allocated. But then also John I. Alvheim has to set up. Where is he in the fight to secure the municipalities a better economy? Second: When the Worker's Party now focuses unilaterally on a norm of whole-day care and care for 25 pst. Of the 80-year-olds, I have to remind you that the 1997 Elder Plan also laid a foundation for the improvement of old buildings and the provision of care services other than those over 80 years old. It's on the background the municipalities have laid their plans. They have done so in consultation with county, county and house-banking. The central party's view is that the municipalities that have planned in consultation with state authorities, several of whom have even changed their plans in the course of the process, have notified their needs before 1 October. If it's a matter of creating trust, all of these municipalities must be safe. We see it as an attempt on the part of the Workers' Party to avoid liability when they now have to look away from statements that they themselves put into St.meld. No 50 for 1996-97. The centre part will clearly extend the seniority plan. We want to strengthen the local economy, we reject fines, and we are calling for offensive policies from the Government to recruit labour. When will there be a recruitment plan that looks at both the challenge and the tools to recruit more – and here is pay clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e309	It's spent 30 billion dollars trying to get the care of the elderly. Now it has to be said that many municipalities have done their job. But unfortunately, in many municipalities, it's still the same conditions for the elderly as it was before we granted the 30 billion. That's the basic problem. And then one has to ask the question: why are there so many differences around the country regarding care for the elderly? It is my reverential claim that it goes on funding, of course. It seems to me that the Centre Party and the representative Kleppa are much more concerned with a municipal bureaucracy than with the care of the elderly. There can be no obstacle to getting government funding to ensure that the money is guaranteed to reach the care of the elderly, if that is what everyone has in mind. I am provoked when there are still representatives of the Stortinget who use the term «best mother out for tender». It was Gunn Olsen's representative who criticised this with outsourcing and referred to Denmark where there were no good examples. The head of the municipal committee and I were on a committee trip this week to Sarpsborg. They have put off their nursing home, with the result that they have primarily saved money. But they have also had a user survey that shows that users are very satisfied, the bosses are very satisfied, and the employees are very pleased. And the strange thing about this is that when Sarpsborg announced vacancies, there were 80 applicants for 20 jobs. And so there's private operation. Now it can be said that it is like that with Swedish drivers, but the point is that everyone is satisfied. Why can it not also be possible in Norway to look at alternative solutions to provide good care for the elderly? That's what I'm asking. There are now many Norwegian interests building care, rehabilitation and health homes in Spain. I had an example of my table a week ago. Norwegian interests build 400 rehabilitation sites and 40 nursing homes, with Norwegian employees. They have no problem filling the places if the Storting opens up alternative funding so that the elderly and the sick can use this type of care. But here's a stop, simply because the bulk of the population is more concerned about bringing the money that's to be spent on this, into a municipal bureaucracy. Thus, the funds to be used for the care of the elderly disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e324	I am not sure whether the quality of care for the elderly is getting so much better through this debate today, when we still stand in the trenches and use words like ‘municipal bureaucracy’ as shell words and ‘privatisation’ as the magic formula. I think we need to get something ethical into this, and that put the Bondevik I government up through Care 2000. It was then talked about by some teams that there was a saying in the course of course. But I actually think there's a need to go through those words and those concepts and make them concrete, and materialize them, among other things. through financial appropriations, so that we have the opportunity to do what we're doing in a slightly tumultuous way. There is not so much news about care for the elderly today, as reported in the media this morning. The target of 25 pst. coverage for the population over 80 years has been in place for a long time. Also this with quality regulations we could have had a long time ago if the government had followed care in 2000 and put out the regulatory work, and also returned with laws if necessary. Like Gunn Olsen's representative, I don't think there are fines, penalties and laws that the municipalities need now, but resources – resources in terms of economics and personnel. I want to focus on a slightly different sector than what has been the main theme here today, and that is the medical content of care for the elderly. I believe that several nurses would apply to the care of the elderly if the medical profession had received a higher status. And then I don't think the Minister for Social Affairs has the right thing to do when she talks about new regulations for pre-treated patients. We deal with older people between levels of responsibility – almost like parcels. And that's wrong, Social Minister. It has to be that we have a greater ethical responsibility at all levels and a greater sense of what this should be. It's too bad to cure in the nursing homes. It's too poor medical-professional offer in hospitals. Older people often have complex and sometimes complicated diagnoses, and then they are treated for the femoral fracture they get there for, or for something that might just be an adverse reaction in an overall diagnosis. We have to get this up. Then it might also be that the nursing students say that these are not just people who are going to die; these are people who need a worthy care, care and treatment until the end of the day. This is what we put too little emphasis on in the discussion on care and care for the elderly. I can't believe it's the freedom of choice that's the big deal either. At least the freedom of choice does not give equality. How much freedom of choice do they have over 80 years in my municipality to choose a nursing home and at the same time be close to their family and relatives? How much freedom of choice do you have in an area like this in Oslo when you suddenly collapse and get a hundred percent nurturing and you don't intend to choose until you've become a hundred percent nurturing? He/she must be admitted to an emergency facility. I think it's best taken care of that we have a public service to provide coverage for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e339	At first I have to say that there was a strange post by the representative of Meltveit Kleppa. She said that the Workers' Party focused one-sidedly on 25 pst. coverage. We focused on it, but also on a lot of other things. The Labour Party wants to discharge itself of responsibility," said Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. No, we chose a little painful road in 1997. We chose to spend 29 billion kroner on increasing service provision and better care for the elderly. I know that this wasn't completely unproblematic, because there were others on the track who had other priorities, without me going into it right now. So we chose services for cash payments. It was at the bottom. We took responsibility for and initiative for the action plan that we are now discussing and may be able to continue to achieve the objective of sustainable care. It was the initiative of the Labour Party government in 1997, and we are proud of that. The problem is not that we were built for many nursing homes, because it has given very many older people better and more worthwhile care. But we also have a greater ambition. As Bjarne Håkon Hanssen mentioned in his post, we want to signal that we are moving forward in the development of care for the elderly in a good quality way. We want more hospitals, when it is now documented that that's the need, and that's what municipalities can best tell us. Therefore, it is important how the Government interacts with the municipalities. So we're signalling a continuation of a reform that is necessary for the elderly. All the municipalities have to have a chance. The special thing – for those who have not understood it – with what has been said today is that the municipalities that are not in the target today must have an opportunity to move on. The future model must take account of the fact that many municipalities have not actually done the job on which Stortinget challenged them. Today, therefore, we signal that in the future financing of care for the elderly, it must be such that older people throughout Norway receive a valuable offer. Therefore, we want to put at the bottom a prerequisite that the municipalities move on to one is in goal. In addition, in the case of the so-called wave of old age – a word that I do not like to use – we have to bear in mind that many municipalities today have not actually reached the peak, so that future funding must guarantee that these municipalities are in fact able to offer services that the other municipalities already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e350	Let me first thank you for all the good posts! I perceive the debate to contain two key points. The first is future expansion, especially in relation to health care facilities. My point and the Workers' Party point is that a number of municipalities today have a significant underdevelopment of the number of nursing homes compared to a standard of 25 pst. of which, over 80 years. What we're going to say is that the municipalities that today, or in a few years' time, will clearly be below this norm, still have to have special state economic instruments to achieve this norm, in line with the other municipalities that have been given and have already built up. If it's the case that the Minister of Social Affairs can now confirm that the Government is in favour of it, it's a pleasure. I understand the representative of the Magne Aarøen up there that it is a matter of course that the Government is in favour of it, and then the Social Minister will be able to confirm it. In that case, it is a good news to take away from this debate. As I see it, Stortinget is a clear majority to continue such a special financing arrangement with the municipalities. The second key point, on which the Council of State had little in mind in its statement, is the question of staffing, and the provision of a funding basis for municipalities to increase staffing. Both the representative Alvheim, the representative Molvik and the undersigned have been crystal clear in terms of the fact that the Storing Message has to outline a plan for how we can increase the staffing of the elderly in Kommune-Norway. For this reason, it is also necessary for the Government to cooperate widely in the EEA on the provision of care for the elderly at the time of the notification of the gross domestic product to include a clear strategy for increasing staffing, taking into account how it is to be financed. In addition, I would like to conclude by saying that the representative Molvik so many wise things about recruitment that I would like to join. We are having an exciting meeting with regard to the care of the elderly in the spring of 2002. In the spring of 1997, we provided the basis for an elderly effort that has produced some important results. Now it is important that we use spring 2002 to complete a very important construction work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e363	The cancellation will soon receive a big message about the completion of the old-age plan. It will include, among others: sketchers: where did we start, what have we got, and what remains? And there's an important discussion: how do we proceed? Then it is important for me to say that the care of the elderly should be measured on the offer of the weakest and most nurturing patients. We often see examples of older people not receiving services that care for their needs for care and that they are not met with dignity and respect. There is a need for a quality reform in the care of the elderly, and I will, as mentioned, come back next year to the Stortinget with it with a broad review both of the objectives and of the measures. The main objective later is to ensure that this assembly agrees on: parental care shall be good and shall be characterised by dignity. Then you have a different view of the instruments. I've got a lot of points of view. I take them with me in the further work. I would like to comment on some of the signals that have been given, and first say that the Stortinget actually asked the previous one to have a common regulation that provided both the health care home and the care home. That's what we're working on. There have also been signals on financial instruments and rights. As part of the work we are doing, I signaled in my main post that we will also review today's legislation regarding both financing and user payment schemes. As far as staffing is concerned, it is important to say – subject to my right to remember – that 12,000 new annual works have been included in the older age plan from 1997 to today. Manning has increased from 43 to 45 employees per year. 100 older than 80 years, so here it's been a strengthening. That doesn't mean we're done. This will be part of the review of the matter we come to Stortinget with now in our relation to the retirement plan. When there are questions about minimum standards, I think it is important to say that it must be the needs of the elderly that are the starting point for manning. I am afraid that a fixed standard of manning can also become a minimum standard, and that it is not the needs of the elderly who initially form the basis for manning. But here I see that there are different views in the hall, and I also take this into account in the further work. Questions have also been raised about what is happening at education and recruitment level. It's at work. It is composed of many measures. You've been holding on for a couple of years. Improvements are still required because it is a major challenge. Finally, I just want to say, yes, I think that the medical offer at the hospital can be a lot better. There is also an opportunity in the fixed medical system for municipalities to commit seven hours per year. weeks for public service purposes, and then in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e380	The Stortinget has completed the examination of case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e386	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e393	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Inge Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and by Mr Odelstinget, on 8 March 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a scheme outside the agricultural agreement whereby any additional costs incurred by the farmer in connection with veterinary intervention during transitional periods shall be borne by the State Treasury.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e411	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 March 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider increasing the amount of the facilitating grant in addition to the proposed NOK 250 so that the grant becomes more consistent with the actual costs of such organisation for each employer.’ Beate Heieren Hundhammer – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e419	In the light of the presentation by the Minister of Social Affairs during the debate in Odelstingen on this matter, it was found that the Ministry now assesses this matter and that the Minister of Social Affairs will quickly come back with a clarification to the Stortinget. On this basis, I recommend that the groups of the government parties vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e426	Harald T. Nesvik – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e429	This is a proposal that was promoted in the Odelsting of all parties except the government parties, so I would, of course, recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e434	Then there can be no further recommendations – the President has perceived the situation so that there can be a risk that there will be unanimity behind this proposal! We can then do a very simplified form of voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-22.ana.ud407e444	There is no voting theme in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
