ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e57	The representative Berit Brørby, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From June 12th to June 14th, an application has been made for the leave of the representative of Thore A. Nistad to take part in the meeting of the Nordic Council of the West Norwegian Council in the Faroe Islands. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e83	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President proposed that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e108	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e119	Today, Stortinget deals with one of the perhaps most important issues in the field of environmental policy for a long time. After all, the diversity of life on earth is the very basis of human existence, of value creation, of quality of life and of well-being. Our biodiversity on the globe has evolved over a long period of time through largely natural development. This is a dynamic process that necessarily involves the disappearance of some species and the emergence of new ones. In Norway, 130 species of plants and animals have disappeared in the last 150 years. The UN points out that the global loss of species is alarming and so extensive that it could gradually undermine the basis for sustainable development. None of us want to, of course. St. Report. No 42 for 2000-2001 shows that changing governments take this seriously. The Stoltenberg government promoted the notification, and the Cooperation Government is continuing the political process. The Committee's work on the matter has also shown that there is a high degree of consensus on the main issues. All parties understand that this requires a comprehensive knowledge-based policy that can only be achieved through binding cooperation involving all sectors and interest groups. The Storting Communication draws up this policy, an overall committee looks seriously at the important questions, and the setting shows that with some small exceptions there is agreement on the main conclusions of the message. And it's joyous, for such fundamental issues as this matter travels, are served with a common understanding and agreement on both the place of today and the way forward. One of the main conclusions is that a national programme for the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity is to be established, inter alia. the creation of a species database. Knowledge of what should be protected is the essential prerequisite for effective protection. The notification and the measures indicated are Norway’s committed follow-up to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, starting from the Rio meeting 10 years ago. Today’s down-to-earth treatment is not a piece of rest or ultimate goal in this way; it is rather a clear signal from the Stortinge to concreteise the work of the administration, in close cooperation with the industries and others affected by the measures. But this is also a good starting point for the forthcoming UN Summit in Johannesburg on Sustainable Development. The state of play of the Storting through the treatment of this message gives the Government the opportunity to play an offensive role in helping to shift some markers in the interests and understanding of biodiversity. Although this communication is largely about how to organise management to achieve ideal environmental policy objectives, I would like to highlight the importance of the contribution of organisations and industries to achieving the objectives. The organisations in this field possess a valuable competence from which the administration will enjoy further work. I know that the Council of State listens interested in wise perceptions and considerations, so I will not be surprised if the Government will also exchange and develop its further policy in a constructive dialogue between voluntary and administrative competences. In particular, the primary industries involved in biodiversity and the carrying capacity of nature for resource use and economic returns are in business. No one knows the sensitivity and generosity of nature better than those who depend on it in their daily livelihood. Just think of the long-termity that lies in the generational perspective of forestry. Today's forester, her father and grandfather have cultivated and cultivated the germ of value creation that was sown perhaps 70–80 years ago, which is today's user's profit. This is a return perspective that makes most other, often impatient returns demands in the shadow. Therefore, we need to have a good dialogue with industry in the field of deforestation when, in the interests of ensuring biotopes and diversity of species, the big community makes this necessary. No one has been served with a high level of conflict on these issues, and the Committee's instructions on makeshifting, active use of the country's forest properties in this context and amicable arrangements are serious. Finally, as the rapporteur, I would like to thank my committee colleagues for their very constructive and interesting cooperation. I have experienced that each of them through their contributions, which of course have political nuances – it should only be lacking – has contributed to Norway being in the forefront when the world community meets again after ten years to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e154	Let me start by thanking the case manager for his work. His party has had monthly breakthroughs in the work of this message. It is evident from the performance of private ownership interests and business interests. And that's something that gives cause for concern. My first question concerns the problem of coniferous protection. The Committee's plurality suggests that it is largely State forest that is to be managed by the makeshift process. So we know that Statskog has virtually no forest worth protecting. Does it mean, however, that there is the main policy of the Right here on the Storting, that one should carry out protection in this way when one knows that it is really not possible to protect so much of what State Forest has? In addition, the government, in cooperation with the Progress Party, has now cut 15 million. kr in coniferous protection in the revised budget. So the question is, is this how it strengthens the biological diversity? Then, as the case-speaker was about, there were problems with the volunteer organizations. The Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party propose an increase in the commitment to skills development and registration, i.e. more money both for voluntary organisations and for skills development, among others. in the municipalities. Is it that way to understand that SABIMA and Norwegian municipalities can now expect a escalation plan from this Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e163	Yes, I will answer quite clearly the first question to Hallgeir Langeland. In fact, I think that the care of private property interests, among other things. The forest areas in Norway have contributed to the fact that we do not have so much to be ashamed of in this country. We have an ambition to have more protection, and then I think that the forests of Statskog are an important contribution. The Committee was travelling, among others: to Sweden during the examination of this case, and there we were told that coniferous protection was actually not at all a conflict matter, because the forests of the country had been used to a large extent. I think it's possible to use more of the state's forests to achieve these objectives, and especially in the field of makeshift solutions. Then it's only half the story when Hallgeir Langeland says we're reducing by 15 million. kr. That's 35 million. kr, which is a strengthening in relation to the budget from last autumn. As far as voluntary organizations are concerned, I think there are only shades of opinion between Hallgeir Langeland and me. He is more on-going and wants to get money already in the processing of a credit report. As I see it, it is a matter for the Government in the current budgets to make proposals for this. I think Hallgeir Langeland will experience that this is going to be taken care of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e172	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e175	This year it has been ten years since the major environmental conference in Rio de Janeiro. Two conventions were adopted to address the two major environmental policy challenges: the Convention on Biological Diversity and the UNFCCC. As everyone here in the Chamber is very clear, we're in the committee with the final question about climate, and we're going to give it up tomorrow, so we'll have a good opportunity to come back later. However, when I mention the climate convention today, it is because these two major environmental challenges need to be seen in context. Both have the same basic cause, which is an ever-increasing difference between poor and rich internationally. On the one hand, poverty and population growth lead to land robbery in the poor countries, to the deforestation of forests, to desertification and to pollution. On the other hand, increasing consumption in the rich countries and an increasingly energy-intensive way of life have made our way of life at the expense of the climate, leading to the eradication of species at a pace and scale that can have untold consequences. According to the 2002 state of the earth, there are alarmingly large proportions of different types of wildlife and wildlife that are at risk of extinction – 12,5 pst. of carp plants, 11 pst. by birds, 20 pst. of the reptiles, whole 25 pst. of mammals and an even greater proportion of the fish species, 34 pst. The main immediate reason for this is the loss of habitats, i.e. natural areas of species to live in. One of the most important and most endangered habitats is the world's forests. I'll say that a little bit later. To meet such a major and fundamental challenge, a comprehensive policy is needed. It is precisely this message, which has the sub-title of Sectoral Responsibility and Coordination, which is about. I am therefore pleased that it is a unanimous committee that supports the strategic objectives for the conservation of biodiversity that the message draws up and that it is a unanimous committee that supports the main conclusion of the message to establish a new knowledge-based biodiversity management system. It was the other government of Stoltenberg that went ashore the work that has been going on with this message for many years, and that put it forward last April – without making it too big a point of party politics. The main thrust of this message, as explained by the rapporteur, is the establishment of a new knowledge-based management system. The new management system involves identifying areas of high biodiversity value through a national monitoring and monitoring programme. With this knowledge as a starting point, both legal and economic instruments must be set up to protect these areas. Taking care of biodiversity is therefore not something we can pinch with our fingers and adopt. It has to be a process, it has to be an overall goal for what we do in every sector, and it is absolutely vital to have good cooperation between the state, the municipalities and the county municipalities. However, if we are to establish a system that the message describes, we have an important tool for Norway to take part in the responsibility for the global environmental challenge. Then it will be up to us to do what is necessary to preserve and secure biodiversity here in Norway. The aim is for the new management model to be completed by 2005 so that Norway can report fully at the meetings of the parties in 2004 and 2006. In line with the comments of the majority, the Ministry's assessments and any amendments will be presented in the context of the Government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state. It is good, but precisely because it is so important to get this system up by the end of 2005, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have nevertheless found reason to suggest that we ask the Government to submit a stepping-up plan in the State budget. Such a phasing-in plan should provide an overview of the amount of appropriations needed, inter alia. in order to build up the competences needed in the various sectors and municipalities, and the extent to which it is necessary to carry out the monitoring and monitoring activities. Another thing that should be made quite clear by such a stepping-up plan is what is needed by appropriations to establish a species database. I am pleased that the Committee supports the establishment and operation of the species database by 2003. It must also mean that the Government will enter appropriations for this in the State budget to be submitted until the autumn. I therefore hope that the government parties can support the Workers’ Party’s proposal and the Swedish Government’s proposal that the State budget should also respond to the needs of the species database in the years 2004 and 2005. Furthermore, I hope that the Minister for the Environment can use his contribution today to confirm that the species database will be located in Trondheim, as the government of Stoltenberg agreed. It is necessary for the Council of State to be able to clarify it today. In the setting, all games except the Workers' Party are silent on this question. In the message as well as in the configuration, there are some more specific individual areas that are mentioned. I'll mention one of them: the need to increase forest protection, especially coniferous protection. As I was at the beginning, the forests of the world are one of the most threatened habitats. In Norway, too, there has been a decline in the number of non-interventional forest areas. At the same time, we know that about 45 pst. of the endangered species in Norway are in the forest. Without stronger protection, many of the 1,400 endangered species in the forest may lose their natural biotopes. Therefore, increasing forest protection is one of the important things we can do in Norway to ensure biodiversity. We have done part of the job in Norway through the follow-up to the deforestation report, which was submitted in 1995. In the message we are handling today, the government informed Stoltenberg that it would initiate an evaluation of forest protection, and while this message has been lying and matured here in Stortinget, that evaluation has thus been completed. The conclusion of the researchers is that there is a need for increased protection and, from the point of view of the suspension, the Minister for the Environment has agreed to this. On the one hand, a majority, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, show that the Government is proposing to extend coniferous protection. A little further behind, the Workers' Party and SV say that, in my opinion, even clearer when we write that ‘in addition to the agreed coniferous forest plan, an extended protection is necessary to ensure a representative selection of forest types’. What, in my opinion, is a little sad then, is that what is used most of the time in the configuration is talking about anti-conflict measures and shifts, both in the implementation of adopted plans and in relation to increased protection. The Labour Party has nothing against either anti-conflict measures or a change of model – on the contrary. But that's kind of enough to say it once or twice. Working with environmental policies is a demanding exercise, because we, who are responsible today, sometimes have to give short-term consideration. I'm concerned that all the remarks about avoiding conflicts and about just having to solve this with makeshift, and that what we've seen in the treatment of the revised national budget, where the government first increased the allocation of coniferous forest protection, but then in cooperation with the Progress Party cut it again, means that the majority of the Stortinget will talk nice about coniferous forest protection, but don't dare do what is needed. Finally, I would like to promote the two minority proposals from the Workers' Party and SV in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e203	Synnove Konglevoll has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e208	I have two questions for the Workers' Party. The one thing is related to what the representative Konglevoll said at first, with a description of the actual situation in which a high level of forest, where one has a high degree of species eradication around the world, and where one is forced to take action, and in addition to what was the main point of the representative, is that it is superior to one having to carry out the biological deficiency in practice. Then my question to the Labour Party is: what is the reason why one then does not want to join and lead the WTO and the trade regime, so that one avoids importing or selling this forest that is being hogged? And in this context, why doesn't the Labour Party want to be with SV to give ethical and environmental political leadership to the oil fund that we have in Norway? In relation to the issues raised by the representative, for example: Raging rainforest, it can be our money spent on this. It must be problematic if one thinks there should be no leadership in the WTO and the oil fund. Question no. 2 goes on this with forest roads and the descent that the Workers' Party is in there. SV wants to close this immediately, assuming that we see the biological deficiency first. The question is, how long does the downtime period go down to the Workers' Party? Can we get support for a cut already in the next budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e217	In this setting, it appears that in some areas, the Working Party and SV stand together. It should not surprise me that the representative Langeland asked for one point under the heading of International Cooperation where we do not stand together, where SV has specifically pointed to trade agreements. But I want to show that we are united in the vote in pointing out that biodiversity considerations must lead Norway's foreign policy and our participation in a number of international organisations and also in trade agreements. With regard to the ethical guidelines for the oil fund, there is a majority in this House in favour of an extraction mechanism, and that will apply in cases where we discover that investment is in conflict with, among other things. The Convention on Biological Diversity, which is a very governing convention for Norwegian foreign policy. In the case of forest roads, there is one issue where there is a difference between the notes of the Workers' Party and the SV, where SV says to remove the aid, while the Workers' Party says to step down the aid. Anyway, it's important to start with this case, and the most important thing would have been to get an uproar from the other parties too, so that we had a majority here in Stortinget to start that job. I just want to show that the last government started the job through the forestry business, where investments in the most non-interventional areas were cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e227	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e230	It is in the self-interest of our generations and future generations to make the best possible use of nature, including biodiversity, so that we do not cause irreparable damage to nature. This does not mean that you can label all the activities involving changes in nature, as a deterioration, or that you have to stop the further development of today's societies in order to achieve so-called sustainable development. Management of nature means more than making it a museum. Some interventions may lead to undesirable changes that may take generations to clean up. It is therefore particularly important for society to have sufficient knowledge to understand the causality of nature. In general, it is appropriate to control variations, seek explanations of changes and provide a preparedness for actions where human activity is the cause of undesirable changes. We therefore support sustainable development – and mainly maintain the precautionary principle. An overly strict interpretation of this concept can lead to complete cessation of social development. The pre-goods principle may also mean avoiding hasty conclusions. The lack of knowledge about problem areas is not an argument in itself to stop social development. On the contrary, learning through experience is a common, accepted and widespread learning process. The main objection to this communication is that it is mainly about the ministry and their view of reality. As indicated in the Communication, almost all challenges will have to be addressed by means of various state measures, in the form of new regulatory regulations and awareness-raising efforts. In our opinion, the notification seems to take account only of the fact that the bureaucrats in the ministry, the Directorate of Nature Management and the statesmen are responsible for the practical management of biodiversity. It is soil and forest users who manage biodiversity on a daily basis. Active and sustainable use of both land and land has, through generations, shaped a diverse and diverse cultural landscape. Knowledge and attitudes built up over generations regarding the use of natural resources are crucial to the extent to which a longer-term success will be achieved in ensuring biodiversity for future generations. In future conservation of biodiversity, farmers, fishermen, forest owners and others who use, manage and live by nature will play a crucial role. I think there's a reason to notice that there's been a huge environmental gap in forestry in the last three years, and that it's happened in the direction of the industry itself. ==References== 20 000 forest owners have conducted a study to gain knowledge of further environmentally friendly forestry and have committed themselves to complying with the living forest standards. Forest owners order their own environmental records and set aside land for biodiversity reasons, which means that it is set on larger areas in this way than has been done in coniferous protection to date. The latter is worth noting, with the level of conflict between the landowner and the state often leading to the protection of the forests. It is not primarily the aim of taking care of nature that creates conflicts, but the procedure of the governmental administrative bodies. Unfortunately, this has led to unnecessary conflicts, as the words and actions of environmental protection authorities are perceived by local users and owners as being overrun by the big community and depriving them and the community of their own resources. An example is coniferous protection, where the process itself has led to years of bonding large parts of the resource base on several thousand forest properties. When such processes are in progress, the trust in the environmental management is destroyed. Fortunately, there are good examples of cooperation between the public and private sectors in the management of natural resources. Game and fish management is a good example of how the public and private sectors can benefit from good coordination and cooperation and effective management models. This not only ensures biodiversity but also ensures a good and sensible balance between use and protection. This has given good results both professionally and practically, and on the purchase you get a lot of local commitment. Coordination and cooperation such as this should be a good example of planning and management with the private sector. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal of the Party of Presidents and the Central Party in the vote on case No. 1 and the Procedural Party's proposal in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e251	Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e254	It is positive that we now finally have to deal with the message of biological deficiency. It has a doctor for a long time in Stortinget and worked after being treated. I agree with both the spokesperson and the representative from the Labour Party that we are some of a lot about, and the Labour Party and SV want to go further, among others. with the two proposals that have been made. The problem is when starting with the action page. Then there are some things that become too undercommittal. Then again the responsibility will come to the government. How will this be followed up in the budget? What kind of partner will you choose when you deal with the budget? Select one of the partners that set the environment first, or select one of the partners that set tax and tax relief first? So far, a chosen tax haven rather than bet on the environment. It is important that we note this. Another question is: Do your local authorities have the means to follow up on this message? There is actually a positive attitude to this from the majority, also to giving volunteer organisations bigger funds. But we've heard this from this pulpit in the past. One talk about it, then the budget comes, and then it's gone. What will happen on June 21st, when the message of the wild card is sent? What interests do we have then? Is there any interest in maintaining the particular wild species that Norway has, or will there be any commercial interests through farming facilities, with additional problems with salmonids, which are emerging? When the concrete follow-up matters of this message come, what we see is what the priorities this government is doing. It is SV’s impression that the basic view of the majority of the Stortinget is primarily to respect the right of nutrition and ownership. One should protect private ownership owners from the biological deficiency, even if one says that it is important, of course, that the private ownership owners follow up. Then it turns out in practical politics, when it comes to budgets, that a cutaway in things that could make sure that one increases the biological deficiency, for example. relative to the coniferous protection system, where the reeds are now cut by 15 million. kr because a choice to cooperate with a party that does not prioritize the environment but that prioritises tax relief. One cannot turn away from that fact. The approximation of this from the plural is, in the SV's opinion, totally wrong. For example, if you're thinking about the error axis, you don't set it first, but you set your business interests first. What will that mean, for example? the tourism industry if the wild salmon dies out and if the farming industry takes over everything? What does that mean in relation to Norway's international responsibility for the destruction of Norwegian wild caught salmon? It's here a turn-around thing on your head if you just focus on the business interests, like the trend of the multiples here in the Storting. That's the same thing about the forest. The Environmental Director of Norwegian Forest, Sverre Thoresen, says in the Newspaper on 8 January this year: ‘The recurring question from our customers is how Norway, a country with such a high environmental profile, can have so little protection of coniferous forests.’ So that means there's an economic interest in making sure that coniferous protection increases, to make sure that we approach the level of Finland and Sweden, which is miles ahead of us. When one of them, as the right party is often, is very busy and just focused on economics, it's a little bit surprising that one doesn't care about such assessments when we're dealing with the biological deficiency message. SV is dedicated to strengthening the efforts to secure biodeficiency. We want to show that we are at the forefront of following up international agreements, whether they are in this area or in other areas. This does not really include the other games. SV also wants – and has received support from the Labour Party – to look at and assess the coordination of environmental legislation, as one has done in Sweden, to see if it can strengthen the work on the environment in this way. I don't understand why the government party, which says that the environment is important, can be involved in evaluating such a proposal, but so I want to vote against it. It seems completely absurd on SV. I also find it regrettable that the government does not end up with the proposal of the Labour Party and SV saying that one will strengthen the competence, one must strengthen the monitoring work and one must strengthen the monitoring work, and that one must have a stepping-up plan for this. Because that's what the government party in words says they should do, but when it comes to the practical decisions, they don't vote for it. Strengthening the community economy and strengthening voluntary organisations in this field are very central to the Workers' Party and its comments. That is where the political element lies in relation to the parties with which this government cooperates. Because it's clear that the important perspectives there won't be in the center if you choose to cooperate with the party that has the most important cause of cutting taxes and taxes. Then the environment loses, and then one from the Government must also be so honest as to say that we do not give priority to the environment, we give higher priority to tax and tax incentives. That's the actual situation, that's what happens in the practical policy. Then a pink Environment Minister can do a good job out there, and he does a lot of things at home for the benefit of the environment. But everything that costs money, it looks like the government can't give priority, and it's not the partners that could make sure that a priority was given to this. Finally, I would like to say that there are some central problem settings for which SV is alone to have an understanding, among other things. in the case of the oil fund. If a pure actually drives and invests in a company that destroys the biological deficiency, like a mound in the rainforest, and a multiple here on the Stortinget at the same time says that it gets us back to, and that biological deficiency is one of the most important things we're dealing with, don't worry about it. Then one must be clear in relation to oil fund investment that one should not invest in things that go beyond the biological diversity. So then one must have ethical and environmental policy guidelines on how to invest. But it doesn't want the plural. First of all, they want profit to be a liability, as the only and most important element. Then the message from SV is that a priority is not the work on biological deficiency if one ensures that it is the participations that are important. Now SV was often very negative on some things, but it is to show that there are actually some tasks that the Minister of the Environment and the Government are left to solve. In fact, it is that the message from SV is, as it is in all things that go on the environment, as the government knows that SV first of all, that a simple priority must be to cooperate with that party if one thinks that environmental policy is the most important. This government is not currently doing this. It therefore cooperates in obtaining the highest possible tax havens, and it does not benefit the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e292	It is true that, to a large extent, it is the private owners of forests in Norway. It is also the case that the care is done in a good way in this country. SV claims that Sweden and Finland are «milewise» ahead, but the difference is thus 3 pst. Whether we were on the Swedish level, we would have 96 pst. forest again, which would also be well managed. I am not impressed by the environmental policy of the regimes with which SV identifies itself. It is enough to mention as horror examples when responsibility is powdered and state systems take over, the environmental pollution around Nikel, and we also know that there are major environmental problems in socialist China. So I don't think SV in this room should be attacking systems that are driven by completely different interests: the personal responsibility, which is able to manage the systems, including the ecological ones, as we have done in Norway for a number of years. In the case of the 15-million-dollar cut. kr, as SV has been within twice, it is tempting to ask about it. I do not remember that SV added anything more to the forest protection in the state budget last autumn. It's actually an increase of 35 million in coniferous protection. kr which is now being settled in the revised agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e301	Let me first say that it's been a while since I've experienced that the Soviet Union and China have been in the debate in relation to SV -- I just have to say that he forgot Albania to get the picture complete. For me and the representative Halleraker are quite a few in that assessment in relation to the old centralist – communist so-called – regime and environmental policy. But it's okay to try. Then it's the problems with coniferous protection. It is absolutely right that the government proposed to add 50 million. kr. But what was SV's point was that the government chose to cooperate with a party that cut 15 million. kr in this addition, and then it becomes, the same way you calculate, a cut in relation to what was submitted. Less to the protection of the coniferous forests then becomes the conclusion from the SV side. So it's not going to work out. So to private and state forest and how one treats private owners. SV doesn't disagree with the fact that very many, probably the vast majority of private owners do a very important job when it comes to biological deficiency. But sometimes it's necessary for the public to go in and contribute to things being protected, and pay the bill for it. The setup of the Right is to approximate everything that is to be done by State Forest, which thus has no particularly protective forest. This way, you'll be able to protect yourself, while at the same time, you'll be able to raise up your wand churches. That's what you do when you don't show that you have to protect the areas where you actually have a biological deficiency that is worth protecting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e310	Initially, I had not intended to take any line at Hallgeir H. Langeland, but he is relatively clear, to say it this way, in his mention of the majority, and not least of the cooperation parties, in terms of profiling the interests of the setting – a reference that I feel in a sense bears the great mark of an overplay, almost at the limit of being a wrong representation of what is the reality of the setting in terms of the relationship between commercial interests, land ownership interests and protection interests. The notes are very clear also from the government parties, but what is a significant difference between the cooperation parties and SV is that we recognize that there are actually some landowners around who are on significant properties. There's also another significant difference. Like SV, we want to protect, but we want to go through processes that can help mitigate the level of conflict beyond what we see today. My question to SV is: How has SV expected this protection to be implemented, while at the same time reducing the level of conflict? Will he be equally offensive in terms of finding conflict-relieving solutions as the Cooperative Government is, or is this about a state overrun of the land ownership interests? Because that's what you can actually get the idea that it's about. Then I would also like to remind Hallgeir H. Langeland that there are not so many days since his own party trap Djupedal actually invited the Progress Party to some sort of budgetary settlement by saying that if only the Progress Party had come to SV, we would probably have made sure that we got the funds for the childless. Then the question is, what would have happened at the expense of? Because now, in fact, Kristin Halvorsen has used up the entire tax relief for all other good purposes, and now Hallgeir H. Langeland is going to use it on the environment. So that's interesting, and SV also has to decide soon: what do they want to prioritize using the tax relief for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e319	I would like to thank you for a relatively good line, which points to some of the problem options that are interesting for SV. For SV, priority is given to a number of areas – we give priority to the environment, and we give priority to children and young people. Then we'll go so far as to go. to the Progress Party and ask if they will participate and do something in relation to the nursery price. It looks like we can do it. So, what we've promised the voters, we're trying to follow up. At least that's the practice we have in SV. I don't know if the Christian People's Party has a different view of it, but it's our basic attitude. What is my point in relation to the Government is that they choose to enter into a budgetary cooperation with a party that has the premise to cut taxes and taxes. It has not been included, and it will not be included as a principle. Of course, we may be willing to look at some taxes and taxes, but that is not the principle on which we negotiate. We conduct negotiations on the basis of the policy we have when it concerns the environment, when it concerns children and young people. In relation to private property law, I said in my previous line that all of them, most of them owners of property, are doing a very important job when it comes to biological deficiency. But there are areas where it is necessary to go in from our side and help to ensure that the biological deficiency comes first – so we would like to buy areas or, in cooperation with a private landowner, make sure that they are protected. Then it's our task as the running power, etc. to make sure that there are funds for this. So the government's going to cut 15 million. kr, which could have been used to secure private ownership rights in relation to coniferous forest protection. So I look forward to working with the Christian People's Party on environmental policy issues, and that one is concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e328	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e331	There was a slightly liberating exchange of lines between Langeland and me. And I greatly appreciated his conclusion, because it's actually the first time Hallgeir Langeland has used the term "in cooperation with" the landowners. In fact, this means that SV is much closer to what he is trying to give the impression in his main post. However, it is gratifying that there is such a large and broad political consensus in the pursuit of biodiversity that the setting bears the mark. It is by an alternating majority that we today adopt the main principles laid down for the administration, as set out in St.meld. No 42 for 2000-2001, Biological diversity – Sectoral responsibility and coordination. This message was submitted by the government of Stoltenberg, and it remained in Stortinget after the co-operation administration took over. I certainly believe that it is a strength for the matter itself that we agree on the main priorities in this area. We agree on the objectives of the work, and we also agree on what we need to do in order to meet these objectives. The management of biodiversity is a priority area for the Christian People's Party and has been so for a long time. We believe that it is one of the carriers in our thinking about the very administration responsibility as a principle. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that biodiversity and nature have a value in themselves. In line with the commitments of the Convention on Biological Diversity, it is therefore both the vision of the Christian People's Party and the Government of Cooperation that Norway, through national action and international cooperation, should contribute to: ensuring the biodiversity of the earth to realise the values of biodiversity; the benefits and burdens of action are fairly distributed within and between different generations and communities; Our national policies will mean that we are now taking part in the global distribution of the burden of caring for the biodiversity to which the Convention on Biological Diversity commits us, through the principle of sustainable use of this diversity. The national follow-up to the Convention is essential for the development, value creation, quality of life and well-being of the Norwegian society. It is also important for our international credibility. The Convention on Biological Diversity uses the precautionary principle to limit or prevent significant reduction or loss of biodiversity. The Convention requires that the best possible consideration be given to the ecological systems and their functions. Therefore, the cooperation parties consider that the precautionary principle and ecosystem approach should be fundamental administrative principles for all areas of competence. There is a guiding principle that all sectors should take responsibility for integrating biodiversity considerations into their management. We believe that actions should be based on scientific, traditional and local knowledge in order to preserve the functioning of ecosystems and ensure that social activities take place within natural tolerance limits. Furthermore, it is important that measures are assessed according to different impacts, from intensive use to strict protection. Finally, it is essential that measures are planned to be adapted over time to ecological variations and impacts on adjacent ecosystems. In order to strengthen efforts through coordinated policies and actions to combat development, there are three essential elements we need to consider. Firstly, the causes of biodiversity loss need to be addressed. Secondly, the use of biodiversity shall be ecologically sustainable. Thirdly, threatened and vulnerable biodiversity must be protected and, if necessary, restored. The Communication suggests that a cross-sectoral approach should effectively reduce biodiversity loss. Of course, the Christian People's Party supports the Government in the following priorities until 2005: 1st@item: inlistbox A national monitoring and monitoring programme shall be established.2. Legal and economic instruments shall be coordinated to achieve the objectives we set.3. Information is to be collected and research and expertise developed in this area. These three areas of action form the elements of the new management system, which requires strengthening and coordinating the monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity. It is necessary to establish a new management system to prevent unnecessary loss of diversity. This new management system involves identifying areas of high biodiversity value. In order to obtain this factual basis, monitoring and monitoring, including the establishment of a species database, must be initiated. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a majority for this too. Information on areas of high biodiversity value shall be widely available. This shall be the factual basis of central, regional and local government. In the case of legal instruments, a legislative committee is set up to assess laws on biodiversity and relevant sectoral legislation. Furthermore, we are aware that the Plan Law Committee assesses changes in the Planning and Building Act which are designed to better address biodiversity concerns. Changes in existing and the need for new economic arrangements that can be targeted at areas of high biodiversity value shall be assessed. For the Christian People's Party and the Cooperation Parties, it is important to point out that a very important part of the work on protecting biodiversity takes place in local policies. Spatial planning, which also assesses biodiversity considerations, is crucial if we are to succeed in obtaining a representative sample of habitat types. Road development, residential development, commercial property, golf courses, etc. are irreversible interventions in nature that, in some cases, threaten biodiversity. A lot of biodiversity is being found in forests today. About 3,000 species were on the Red List in 2000 of endangered, vulnerable and considerate species. Nearly half of these live in the forest. A broad majority of the committee says that we will give priority to the protection of the coniferous forests, among other things. by providing sufficient resources to ensure compensation. Evaluation has shown that there is a need to significantly strengthen this protection. The government is now adding $25 million. In addition to the protection of the coniferous forests in the context of the revised national budget, we believe that further protection should be provided as far as possible in the event of a change of model between the landowners concerned and the State concerned. Furthermore, we are concerned that there is a need to focus more on methods for the combination of forest protection and use. As we enter and protect areas, it is important that the protection also meets the understanding of those affected. Voluntary organisations are key actors in the mapping process. Competence as, among other things, SABIMA sits on, is essential to the authorities. They are also important in raising public awareness of the importance of biodiversity. Local Agenda 21 work is central here, and the Cooperative Government is very concerned that voluntary organisations are important contributors in this way. What we are adopting today are new principles for managing biodiversity in the future. We are following the commitments we have made in relation to the Convention on Biological Diversity, and we are taking an important step forward in how we are going to take action to take care of the wealth we have in nature. Let me conclude by referring to the proposals before us. 1 from the Workers' Party and SV to bring together all environmental legislation into one common legislation, which in itself is not a bad idea – let me say it – but which may go a little far in concluding that that is what we are actually going to do, without perhaps getting deeper into the material. I think it makes sense to go into it a little bit and see if there can actually be a good basis for such coordination in the future. I would therefore recommend that the proposers consider turning this into a transmission proposal, so that they do not reject it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e402	It's going to be line change. - Hallgeir Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e405	To the last recording by the Christian People's Party on this to evaluate a separate environmental law, I would like to refute what was said about a drawing the conclusion of the proposal. On the contrary. The proposal states: ‘The Government asks whether it is appropriate to place the most important environmental legislation in its own environmental law.’ There's not a bastard at all. It should be entirely unproblematic for the government party to agree to such a proposal, which is very non-committal as it says. So I just want to challenge again and say that proposal should be a blow from the government party's side. So to the Christian People's Party, which is a member of this government. The Christian People's Party marked itself strongly, not least on 9 March 2000, when the Bondevik I government left because of an environmental issue. And in the election campaign, the Christian People's Party profiled the environment high, not only in the area we're in now, in the field of coniferous protection and biological deprivation, but also in the field of public transport. A promise of a number of things in environmental policy. My question to the Christian People's Party therefore becomes: Is this the party that one has chosen as a partner, which is the party with which it is easiest to get through for the policy that the Christian People's Party promises to get away with in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e417	The President wants to make it clear that it was Hallgeir H. Langeland who now had a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e423	To the reply of the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland, I would like to say the following: SV and not least Hallgeir H. Langeland are very concerned about the cooperation we have had with the Progress Party on Budget from time to time. What Hallgeir H. Langeland and SV actually don't take inward though, is that despite the downturn that it should mean for the environment, it's not the environment that loses in this collaboration. In fact, this implies an increase in efforts in general in key areas of environmental policy, including in budgets. With regard to the proposals made by the cooperation parties to the Progress Party, I just have to repeat that there has been some sort of signal here earlier – it was probably last week – that showed that SV was also willing to think a little bit of agreement with the Advance Party if it could result in getting money into so-called involuntary childless people. Then the question is, what might it be at the expense of? There's a debate that doesn't belong here, but I'm a little told that this is constantly repeating itself, when it's actually the case that the government gets an impact on increased environmental efforts in the Storting even through the cooperation we've actually had with the Progress Party. As regards the issue of own legislation, it is quite right that the proposal states ‘examined’. But that is actually what is also reflected in the message itself, so that the government has initially signaled that this is a problem you are concerned about and would like to come back to. Then, as a government party, we see no point in making our own proposal to our own government about something they have said they want to do. That is why my recommendation, in order to prevent this from being downgraded, is that we should again consider turning it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e435	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e438	There is an important message being presented today. The Committee is united on the main principle of this message. An overall committee also supports strategic objectives for the conservation of biodiversity, which aim at the management of nature in such a way as to ensure species that exist naturally in viable populations. At the same time, the Committee recognises that biodiversity is in a natural process of change. The three main global environmental challenges are climate change, desertification and biodiversity change. The ideal thing is, of course, that these themes never conflict with each other, so that you do not put them up against each other. But if you have to choose, for the Center Party, the climate becomes the most important. Climate change will also have a rapid impact on biodiversity. Having said that, I would like to stress that in no way is it my intention to underestimate the importance of biodiversity. The batch of centres is also for protection when required and will take into account endangered and vulnerable species when needed. It is therefore very gratifying that a joint committee goes in to improve and develop the red list. If it is to become a useful and sound management tool, it is necessary to improve its quality. That way, errors can be avoided, and a proper picture of reality can be given. Furthermore, the centre party is the only party that has pointed out the importance of linking the species database to a university environment. It's to ensure neutrality and stability. During the processing of the message, reasonable protection — and especially the protection of the coniferous forests — has been a much-discussed theme. Opinions are, of course, divided, but the majority of the Committee has, in several comments, agreed to identify different anti-conflict measures, such as: trade-change arrangements. It is a pity, therefore, that no majority joined forces with the Centre Party and the Progress Party on a proposal asking the Government to cooperate with primary industry organisations in order to develop a strategy to reduce the level of conflict in natural management. If one wants to avoid conflicts, a bet should do as in the work on watercourse protection that is currently taking place. A large-scale expansion is under the control of Norway's Waterline and Energy Directorate and the Directorate for Nature Management. And that's almost impossible to believe, but it happens without the government having designed a clear mandate for the work. The criteria to be taken into account and the impact of protection on the major impact fields of the watercourse have not been clarified. Nor has it been said how protection, if any, will affect the possibilities for the construction of small-scale power plants, which has been welcomed by the Stortinget on several occasions. It should be a matter of course to clarify mandates and consequences first – not afterwards. This can make conflicts very easy. In the case of another proposal from the Centre Party and the Advance Party, an explanation may be required. The proposal concerns the definition and use of two terms: ‘intervention-free areas’ and ‘wild areas’. We ask the Government to consider whether these terms are appropriate as they are used today. It may seem that the majority have misunderstood the intention of the proposal when they claim that our presentation is not comprehensive. The majority underline that the definition has been used for 20 years. There is no reason to doubt, but the definition is probably not adopted anywhere. That's not what we're really talking about either. We're just asking if the definition is appropriate. And that's something quite different. Most people — and they should be concerned about them — think that, for example, Galdhøpiggen and Glittertind are located in wilderness areas. They don't do that by definition. And the reason for, for example, Glitter tin not located in the wilderness area is not DNT's large cabin, Glitterheim, with diesel power unit and very good dinner. No, it is a road that is closed with a bomb in the summer, and that was not broken in the winter. I guess the few people would have believed that. Let's not get any wild land in this country, but rather figure out concepts that are understandable and more appropriate. We hope that this proposal will be fully welcomed when it is to be voted on later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e453	Together with global warming, the destruction of biological deficiency is the greatest threat to the world's environment. The destruction of biological deficiency is happening today because of man's activities faster than ever before based on natural processes. From the left's point of view, it is very gratifying that the Committee on Energy and the Environment has seen one ambitious objective: ‘The aim of the Committee is to ensure the same diversity of species in Norwegian nature in the future as today’. This will require extensive action over a long period of time. In this work, this message, moving forward to 2005, represents only a first step. The extent of the biological deficiency is still unknown in several parts of the country, and it is therefore positive that the message adds up to a very extensive monitoring and recording of species. In order to know how to deal with the deficiency, it is necessary to know what species and important biotopes exist in an area or municipality. It is good to ca. 300 municipalities are already in the process of such a mapping. As the committee itself points out, there is a 45 pst. of the trodden species in the nature of the forest, and without a stronger protection, many of these species may lose their natural biotopes. The Left is pleased that the Government proposes to extend the protection of the coniferous forests and that the plans for such an extension will be completed during 2003. The left agrees that, in the follow-up to the deforestation plans, there must be as low a level of conflict as possible by making use of voluntary agreements as far as possible, but will nevertheless stress that the selection of the areas to be protected must always take the view that what should be protected on a professional basis should also be protected. Otherwise, I would like to focus on a problem that is of little importance in the message, namely the need not only to take care of the biological deficiency in forests and other areas in wilderness-like areas, but also in cities and agglomerations. What many people may not know is that the big cities also have many endangered species. Oslo is probably the municipality in Norway that has the most directly trodden species, and it's not in the forest, but inside what's called the construction son. This sets out very specific requirements for spatial planning and urban development. Although the main responsibility for this lies with the municipality, it is important that the State is aware of its responsibilities and sympathizes with national interests. In cities and agglomerations, there will also be a great need not only for conservation but also for active care to take care of the shortage. As mentioned earlier, all parties have set themselves the goal of maintaining today's biological deficiency in the future. I notice that even the Progress Party has seen this as a goal. I don't doubt that this is a wish for all the parties in Stortinget. But I wonder if all the same parties have the will to implement the concrete small and large measures necessary to achieve this goal. After all, there is nothing unknown in this room that we adopt ideal goals without having the will to implement what is necessary to achieve them. That's the will to count, and that's what we're all going to be measured for in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e477	I have registered with pleasure that the committee setting shows broad agreement on the main steps proposed in the message. The loss of biodiversity is a serious global problem that is undermining the basis for sustainable development. We have always taken it for granted that this diversity should be present and secure the environment and our daily bread. But new threats and challenges both nationally and internationally make it impossible for us to take this for granted. Even the precautionary principle, which was the foundation of the Rio Summit on Environment and Development in 1992, is now difficult to reach international agreement on. At the large preparatory conference of the Johannesburg meeting, Rio+10, there were many countries that would no longer be involved in confirming the leadership of the war. It's sad. Not least, it's sad because we see quite dramatic changes in biodiversity globally. Biodiversity may be reduced by a rate that is a hundred times that which would be the natural one, and many thousands of species disappear globally every year. It was actually a pretty strong experience to see how it goes with the rainforest at Sumatra. The World Bank has established that over three to four years, all rainforests may be lost in such an important place as Sumatra. When you know that 50-80 pst. of the diversity of species in the world is in the rainforest, it also shows the challenges facing us globally. It is also the case that we have to deliver policies in these areas nationally. In the revised national budget, the government has increased the protection of the coniferous forests by 35 million. kr in relation to what was adopted for the current year’s budget – an increased investment. The reason why the Government will strengthen the protection of forests is among other things. that nearly half of the endangered species in Norway live there. In addition, increased protection of forests is an investment that will improve the competitiveness of Norwegian wood-based products in environmentally conscious markets, on which several representatives have been involved. The government will increase the ambitions for forest protection, and we will explore ways of reducing conflicts while maintaining the professional quality of the work. Some indicated that it is difficult for this government to achieve a more offensive environmental policy if special partners are to be selected in Stortinget. We received a majority for the current year's budget with the vote of the Progress Party. There was an increased environmental effort in the additional budget promoted by the Government, and this was also continued in that cooperation. The revised national budget, which has now been set up by the Financial Committee, provides for an increased commitment to the protection of the forests by 35 million. kr, and there is cooperation between the Cooperative Government and the Advance Party. I also have to reject the fact that giving tax relief, which is good, not least in order to upgrade the families and to upgrade the opportunities of nutritionists to participate in the international competition that is becoming tougher and tougher, is at the expense of the environment. On the contrary. If Norwegian business interests, which also take good care of the environment, do well internationally, this will be an advantage both for the global environment and for environmental policy in Norway. It is also important that those who own private land in Norway may have a greater opportunity to take care of these areas. You have to remember, these are the areas that are the most important in many contexts. I would also like to stress that action in the bio-diversity field is often profitable for society in many ways. This applies both in the short and long term. For example, the cost of the fight against the spread of alien species is $123 billion a year only in the United States – $123 billion. In Norway, for example, introduced salmon diseases costing more than 2 million. kr in the last 15 years. Nature's diversity of life is essential for the creation of value, well-being and quality of life. About 40 pst. by all medicinal products developed from wild plants and animals. We are totally dependent on nature's values and services, but use only a small part of the potential that lies there on a daily basis. Maybe the rainforests live in species that can help solve cancer and give us drugs against AIDS. Substances that kill cancer cells have been found in marine bacteria, and shell enzymes can have great potential as antibiotics for humans. That's when we have to be aware that a species that disappears, disappears forever, it's irrevocable. That is why we have significant management responsibilities, and we have a significant responsibility to follow the precautionary principle in the bio-multiplicity field. Many of the species we live in are cultivated through breeding, based on the variety of it's wild species diversity. We must ensure that this diversity is maintained. Genes from a rare wild rice species were the rescue when processed rice varieties nested under disease. The diversity in nature is both the species' and our own life insurance. According to the UN, biodiversity loss is increasing globally. Only in Norway are more than 3000 species included in the national red list of endangered species. We estimate that at least 130 plant and animal species have disappeared in Norway in the last 150 years. Knowledge of biodiversity is too poor. Of the approximately 14 million species that we assume are found on earth, less than 2 million are described. The Communication proposes a new knowledge-based management system for biodiversity. In Norway, we will facilitate the identification of the more than 3000 species of red lists and their habitats by means of a national monitoring and monitoring programme, to which the Committee has also agreed, and the establishment of a species database. This is the basis for the conservation of these species also in areas not covered by protection, which will provide administrative authorities at all levels with access to knowledge of endangered species and habitat types. In addition, legal and economic instruments are coordinated so that all sectors and authorities know what to do with and can take their part in the responsibility. This is not least important when municipalities, which are responsible for planning and building law, regulate. Such a programme is an important contribution to the preservation of our biodiversity through sustainable cross-sectoral use. The size of such a programme has been requested on several occasions. This government is doing something about this. We have strengthened municipal monitoring and allocated funds to start up the species database in the current year. A knowledge-based management is an advantage for business. Today, businesses often experience that environmental interests come into the planning process late and make it unnecessary expensive and time consuming. With solid information on key natural areas, we will facilitate more predictable land management where the actionholder can adapt more easily to biodiversity considerations at the beginning of the planning process. In addition, the Government has also set up a somewhat more efficient planning process that also ensures business interests at that point. I can mention an example of a successful interaction in this field from the municipality of Larvik. Through the State-municipal monitoring programme, the municipality had identified an important natural area that was also relevant for development. The action holder and the municipality agreed on an approximation between the bio-diversification and development interests acceptable for both purposes. So far, we haven't had enough knowledge of what diversity we have and where it is. For some species, we have had a good overview and management, such as: by the law of the wild and salmon and inland fishing. But for most plant and animal species, e.g. Insects, and the natures to which they are attached, we haven't had a good enough overview. Thus, often discretion and available information are critical to both the environment and the social sectors concerned. The first commandment to manage biodiversity must therefore be that we know where biodiversity is and what it consists of. The Convention on Biological Diversity challenges us to manage nature in a new way, aimed at conservation and sustainable use based on two key principles: Sectors shall ensure that their activities do not lead to the loss of important diversity.The primary management responsibility for the biodiversity shall be delegated to the lowest possible level. These principles underpin the new management system introduced by the Government in the bio-diversity notification, together with the aim of simplifying and improving the efficiency of public administration. We are now establishing a forward-looking administration that already has a positive international interest. Environmental policy must be based on the best possible knowledge. The Climate Panel has contributed to increasing knowledge of climate change and has thus provided a basis for international climate negotiations. Norway has had international impact in order to develop a scientific panel under the UN also for other global environmental challenges. I took this initiative before Christmas, and then got an insight into Cartagena in the context of the International Environment Conference that, UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme will also now have a panel to determine what progress is in biodiversity. This is now also on the agenda of the negotiation process leading up to the Johannesburg Summit. This is an important issue, and through the Communication, the Government also proposes to take action at national level that can make us a precursor nation to preserve biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e529	In order to take care of biodiversity, action is needed, not just fine words, and there is a need for consistency between the words being said and what is happening in practice, otherwise this setting here is worthless. It is then right, I believe, that representatives from both the Workers' Party and SV here today have reacted with disappointment to the settlement that was concluded during the treatment of the revised national budget, where the government parties joined the Advance Party and cut 15 million. NOK in coniferous protection, but a total of almost 50 million. kr in the middle of a year. I expect the Minister for the Environment to know very well that 50 million. In the environment, there is a great deal of money, and it is a very large cut in the middle of a year. And then there's something about you having to be allowed to ask if we can trust that the fine words that the government parties are also on in this message here will be followed up in practice when we experience, as we deal with this message, that the government parties choose to cooperate with the Progress Party and then get a cut, for example. on coniferous protection. If they had chosen to cooperate with the Workers' Party and SV, the Minister for the Environment would have their 50 million. kr to the environmental areas, and he would have what he had proposed in relation to the protection of the forests. If we're to take care of biodiversity, we need money and expertise, and, as I said, action. We believe that there is a need for a stepping-up plan of how much money is needed in the various sectors and municipalities, unless we want to get the necessary monitoring and monitoring to succeed in this. That is why the Workers' Party and the SV are promoting proposals on this. My question is then whether the Minister for the Environment can explain why he does not think this is necessary, and how we will achieve this in practice, if we are not willing to increase competence, and if we are not willing to do so in practice by also spending money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e537	Ibsen wrote in Peer Gynt that "Where the starting point is as crazy, time will be the original result". When the Government, in cooperation with the Advance Party, increased by 35 million in relation to the budget presented by the representative of the Brustad Government last spring. kr for coniferous protection – so we have increased coniferous protection by 35 million. kr in relation to the budget presented by the Workers' Party last year, and it can also be multiplied by two, because it has a full-year effect – it is now presented as a cut because the Government originally contributed 50 million. NOK 35 million. kr. It's going to be the original. I think we should have enjoyed the fact that the Co-operation Administration is doing something to strengthen coniferous protection now. I think that actually would have been as real as possible. And this is more than what the government proposed last fall, and it is also more than the previous government proposed last autumn. And then one would like to think that there should have been even more, and of course, it's very simple when you're in opposition. But I guess there's something that says that money speaks in that context. Now we have a plan for good cooperation with the business interests and business organisations in this area, and we want to increase the protection of the coniferous forests, not least in order to preserve biodiversity. We also follow up, as I said in my post, with appropriations in the current year's budget for the establishment of a species database, and we assume that the mapping process that is now to be carried out in the municipalities will be carried out, and we will follow this up. But we also need to be aware that it is possible to do a lot within the environment, even within the framework of the environment. It is not always that more money is the only blessing. In fact, it is possible to make a lot of good environmental policies in many areas by thinking a little differently and using the money better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e549	We all agree that it is important to preserve our biodiversity. However, protection must not go so far as to prevent the proper use of management. We have to try to find a balance between protection and rational use. Unfortunately, it is a fact that conflicts often arise between these different interests. On the basis of this, the Progress Party and the Centre have made a proposal – No. 4 in the setting - just to try to find solutions that might be anti-conflict. Unfortunately, this proposal does not seem to have a majority today. However, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he does not see the need for such anti-conflict measures, and what he will do in concrete terms to avoid future conflicts, especially in view of the situation of primary industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e556	What's very good about this setting is that it's actually an overall committee that's concerned that we have to preserve biodiversity. It is not only useful to adopt the protection of animals and plants — we have also adopted the protection of the biotopes in which they are located. And when you know that some of these biotopes are threatened, you have to be pretty clear where you want to go in and protect. This applies both in relation to coniferous forest protection and in relation to different habitat types. But I think it is very important to have a good dialogue with nutritionists – as the representative Vaksdal was also involved in. I'm putting a lot of emphasis on that. That is why I have invited both the Forest Society and NORSKOG to a dialogue on what areas we need in connection with the establishment of coniferous forest protection, and how they can possibly deliver. I also agree that Statskog can play a role here. I believe that there are common interests between traders and those who export in this area. When Norwegian Forest states that they have a challenge with regard to the disposal of their products because of a low level of protection in the case of Norwegian coniferous forest protection, I think it's only a matter of time before we get good cooperation solutions here. But some conflicts with regard to the protection of large and important coniferous areas will be the same in the future, I believe. But we're going to do what's possible, to drive conflict mitigation. As regards the establishment of nature reserves, Stortinget amended the compensation rules in connection with Willoch's 1985 proposal. And today, the Bio diversity Committee is open to review the replacement legislation in relation to landscape protection areas and national parks, on the basis of which the general legal bases are based. However, I believe that it is also possible in this area – through a slightly more flexible approach from environmental management and a more pedagogical approach in some contexts – to achieve a better understanding of those who might be covered by this protection. It was a great experience to be at the opening of the Dovrefjell–Sunndalsbergella, where the municipalities were also initially satisfied with what they had come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e569	In the setting, a majority – in fact a group committee – pointed out that there is a need to coordinate documentation from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment, and wanted the Ministry of Environment to support this. So my first challenge to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State support the fact that the information held by the Ministry of Agriculture comes to the public? Then I have a question related to what the Minister of Environmental Protection somewhat tearfully briefed on – the rainforest of Sumatra and the concern for it. This rainforest area has 50-80 pst. of the diversity of species. And maybe there's the solution to the cancer problem. The question then arises: can the Council of State guarantee that there is no Norwegian investment in the companies that cut down this forest, which is thus worrying the Council of State? Finally, the relationship between collecting the legislation in a separate environmental law – as one has done in Sweden – that the Labour Party and SV would like to be assessed. It was informed by the leader of the committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, that there was one thing to do, regardless of whether the proposal by the Labour Party and SV were accepted. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e578	I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland addresses the issue of the rainforest and refers to what a worrying development it is in that area. Each year, half of Norway’s rainforest — globally — disappears. In Indonesia there will be no rainforest back in a few years. Many of the problems are actually illegal logging of rainforests, which the authorities have not approved, but there is no effective follow-up to the illegal logging. Norway supports efforts to prevent this through the Rainforest Fund — through various measures the Fund has in Indonesia as well as in Latin America. As I have announced earlier, the government is now investigating the possibility of stopping the import of illegal logging. These are the measures we're going through. I have noticed the views of the representative of Langeland in relation to the investments of the petroleum fund – I guess that's what he is aiming for. This is a big and important debate, but I don't think we're opening this ball right now – at least not if I'm also going to have time to answer the other two questions that were asked. With regard to the involvement of environmental legislation in a separate environmental law, the Communication states that this will be reviewed by the Government, and it was also referred to by the Chairman of the Committee. A review means reviewing and seeing whether this is a proper step to strengthen the position of the environment in the legislative apparatus. This must also be an assessment in relation to the follow-up to the Biomultiplicity Commission. With regard to the issue of better coordination between agriculture and the environment and, where appropriate, whether the public will have access to information on biodiversity in the Ministry of Agriculture, I will take a closer look at what may be involved and come back to the Committee in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e591	I'm going to ask a question to the Council of State that goes to the species database. The Committee has been set up to set up a species database, which is, by the way, decided in the past, and a majority in the Committee has joined the following note: ‘An important measure to improve and develop the Red List as an important management tool is the establishment of the Art Database.’ But further, the notes are divided. The Workers' Party has a note in which they believe that the Species Database should be located in Trondheim – it is possible that the Minister has no objection to it. The centre batch is more concerned about the environment to which it will be linked. There have been different models of connection forms, such as: are the forces which, it is understood, wish to add it to the administrative body DN or the NINA Foundation, which is engaged in research of the mission. It has also been mentioned that a university environment will be the best. Integrity and trust in the species database are important. Adding the species database to an environment that could weaken belief in impartiality would be an unnecessary burden. It is also important to distinguish between management and knowledge-building. This is also the centre party concerned, and we believe that a university environment has both neutrality, integrity and trust, and that it is best that the species database be placed there. It is also the University of Trondheim – if the choice of places is important. I would like to hear the Minister for the Environment's views on this with the environment and also in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e605	I am very pleased that the representative Mr. Enger stressed that the most important thing in setting up the species database is that such an institution should have integrity, and that it should have a professional environment around it that can take care of the reporting that is taking place in a very proper way. Then I don't disagree that not least NTNU and the university community in Trondheim are a very good and strong environment. But, as the representative, Mr. Enger, too, is the most important thing here now not to make this a localization debate. In fact, what we are about to discuss now is why it is important to take care of these species data, how to achieve a good system in relation to reporting by municipalities, how to take care of much of this data base that relates to the library of life, including in Norway, in such a way that, in the years to come, we know much more clearly and much better which areas should be non-interventional, and which areas are particularly richly biologically, and that we also get better evidence on species data.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e612	I would like to follow up on the last answer given by the Council of State. I agree that we should not make this a localization debate, but that is now the Stortinget has the opportunity to discuss the establishment of a species database. A unanimous committee has stated in the setting that the species database should be up and running by 2003. A year ago, the government of Stoltenberg filed for this species database to be located in Trondheim. I think that the Council of State was very unclear in its answer. If he cannot say anything more than what he said, he has contributed to creating a significant uncertainty about where this species database should be located. So I want to ask the Council of State to give a clear answer as to whether it should be in Trondheim, so that there is no more confusion about it. My other question concerns coniferous protection. As I said, the report from NINA and Skogforsk has recently been presented. It goes in for a powerful escalation of the coniferous protection. If we are to get an increase in coniferous protection where we ensure a representative selection of forests, a rapid and smooth escalation is necessary. Then we also have to bear to cut through some conflicts, and we also have to dry up to take some new grips. We can stand here and boast of that 35 million. kr is good, and in the Labour Party we can say that we have proposed 50 million. kr – even better – but if we are to do something properly in this area, we also need to take a new grip. That is why the Labour Party has said, inter alia: in this setting, that support for forest roads and operation in difficult terrain must be stepped down. It's not government parties on it. I would therefore ask the Council of State to respond positively that this is a measure which the Minister for the Environment and the Government will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e621	I noticed with interest that the representative Konglevoll started by saying that this should not be a location debate. But that's really what the representative contributes to through his post. Those who listened to my reply heard what I said. I think it might be a long way to say that there is now considerable uncertainty about whether the species database should be located in Trondheim. What I said is that the NTNU environment is very strong – it can't be said more strongly – and that it needs a lot to do with the decision taken by the government of Stoltenberg in that context. But as I said, I don't want to take part in any localization contest here, and really don't understand why this is going to be made a big point in that context. Those who know me will also know what was in the answer I gave. So that was the question of coniferous protection. It's interesting to notice that the opposition doesn't think it's awfully nice to brag a little bit and be a little out of touch with what the government's got here. So in the middle of the year, the government has taken a step that almost doubles the protection of the coniferous forest. It's added 70 million. kr in the current year's budget for coniferous protection, and we are increasing this by 35 million. kr i revised – mid-year! As if you could have been clear and said that this government has taken coniferous protection seriously. This is a real, powerful increase in relation to what you've done in the past. Then I have also noticed that the representative, Konglevoll, now thinks it is time to do something about subsidies for forest roads. It is interesting to note that for many years the Workers' Party has not provided for any significant escalation in the protection of the coniferous forests, nor has anything been done with these subsidies. However, this government addresses these challenges and provides a more offensive environmental policy in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e630	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e634	I take the floor in this case in connection with the tightening up of the coniferous protection system, as it is described in St.meld. No 40 for 1994–1995, and as included in this figure. It is true that in some places where coniferous protection has been proposed, there has been a significant degree of conflict between landowners and protection authorities. One of the best examples of a high degree of conflict in coniferous forest protection is found at Haugseek farm in the municipality of Fromland in East Agder. The said farm is also mentioned by name in the setting as an area where the conflict between landowners and protection authorities has just become very high, and I want to use Haugseek farm as an example in my further post. In St.meld. No For 1994–95, the principles for stepping up the protection of the coniferous forests are laid down. This Communication makes it quite clear that some areas are out of date for protection due to a high degree of conflict. In this context, I am very pleased that the principle of avoiding a high degree of conflict in terms of protection should be followed. This has been emphatically underlined by the majority of the committee, and I ask the Council of State to take note of this. In the opinion, the majority of the Committee: ‘that, in the follow-up of the coniferous forest protection plans, efforts must be made to minimise the level of conflict’.» The majority of the committees further say that ‘preferably select areas with the lowest level of conflict’. So the majority of the committee has deliberately chosen to clarify the important principles of minimising the level of conflict, as we find in St.meld. No 40 for 1994-1995. My point is that then the Council of State should follow up the position of the majority of committees in their further work on stepping up the protection of the coniferous forests, thus withdrawing from the plan areas of protection where the degree of conflict has become extremely high. The example of Haughey farm is the school example at a high level of conflict. The owners of this property have long fought a desperate fight against protection in order to preserve the farm’s operational base and future. This is a farm where young people who want to bet on forestry in the future have taken over. The farm doesn't have land. But this farm is protected by maybe up to 20 pst. of the areas, this is a marginalisation of the actual operating base which is destructive to the economic investment in operation. But then it is that around the Haugseek farm there are today four to five moved farms where the owners will hardly particularly oppose protection. So it's amazing that the only inhabited farm in this area feels that the basis of protection can be dramatically marginalized, even though there are probably areas around which to do this protection without any particular degree of conflict. Why should the protection authorities absolutely destroy the operational basis of the only large farm that is inhabited in this area and has nothing but forest to live on, when there are in the same area at least five to six other uninhabited neighbourhoods, with certainly the same flora and fauna and the same biodiversity as the area to be protected on Haugseek farm? Here, reason has to grab hold of the roof, so you don't get to crack the only farm on which it's going to be invested in this area. I am asking the Council of State here today to give the Storting a confirmation that he will base the principles of avoiding a high level of conflict and take strong account of not weakening the operational basis in the further work on stepping up the protection of the coniferous forests. An overrun of private ownership is not worthy of our democracy. I therefore urge reason and realism in this matter, so that at least farms such as Haugseek farm will not afford this devastating protection for the future of the farm. I hope, as I said, for a response from the Council of State to my views.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e661	I'm going to try to spend less time, but I can't let the Minister for the Environment's last statement stand undisputed when he again tries to create the impression that it's just this government that is busy doing something in relation to, for example. coniferous protection. It's actually wrong. The Minister for the Environment is also talking in a lot of contexts about dealing with each other. In that case, he should probably also comply with it himself, because it was actually the Workers' Party that, together with the government parties in the budgetary proceedings last year, i.e. for the current year, agreed on how the details of the environmental budget should be distributed. That means that we also agreed on how much money we would spend on coniferous protection. It is also wrong when the Council of State here says that the workers' party government has done nothing in relation to subsidies to forest roads. After all, the government of Stoltenberg, which, at the farm settlement last year, was asked not to provide support where it was more than 5 km to the nearest intervention, and we gave a signal that it would be stepped down. We'll follow that up in this setting right here. Former workers' party governments have also been too much money for coniferous protection. I would also repeat that if the government parties had been willing to cooperate with us under review, the Minister for the Environment would not have received 35 million. SEK, but 55 million. kr, for coniferous protection, as he originally proposed. I assume that when the Environment Minister proposes something for the Storting, it is because he means it and not just as an bait to cooperate with parties that are still involved in cutting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e672	Several have not asked to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. [[See pages 3037 and 3038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e688	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e695	Document No 8:42 on amendments to the rules on compensation for protection in national parks and for protected landscape areas is based on the assumption that private landowners will not lose their financial resources when they protect private property. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Government Parties and the SV, will extend the mandate of the Biodiversity Regulatory Committee to address this issue. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the Party of Advances and the Centre Party, considers that the law should be amended as set out in Document No. 8:42. ==References== two thirds of the land area of Norway is private land. Private property rights have a long tradition in Norway. Property law is an important basis for our society and an overall principle, such as: is included in the Constitution. Private owners of land are often the best managers of natural areas. Of course, private landowners have an interest in managing their properties, so that the properties and values are maintained and can be left to the next generation in at least as good a constitution as today, which is also traditional here to land. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the Party of Advances and the Centre Party, considers that there should be serious grounds for intervention in private property rights. Where public intervention in private property is provided by means of protective measures or similar measures, sufficient resources must be allocated to ensure full compensation for financial losses. Previous protective plans have often led to a high degree of conflict between those affected by the safeguard decision and the authorities. Landowners can easily feel unfairly treated and overcome by the big community — often without real economic settlement by the state. In the national park plan, there is about. 50 proposals for protection of Norwegian nature. The national park plan covers approx. 11 000 km2 of private land, and these proposals will impose major restrictions on landowners' management of natural areas. Current compensation rules provide for different compensation depending on the definition of the protection measure. By continuing the protection process with current legislation, strong conflicts between authorities and landowners are being opened up. Most landowners and their stakeholder organisations agree to participate as a party to the protection process, but require a fair compensation scheme for the areas protected as a national park and landscaping areas. It is also appropriate to work for the transfer of husbandry between the country and landowners, where possible, in order to avoid the level of conflict. Therefore, there are both prima facie and practical reasons for amending the compensation rules when protecting land under the proposal. As a rule of law, Norway must maintain private property rights and therefore ensure full compensation for those affected financially by protection decisions. The legislation must equate the right to compensation for financial losses resulting from protection, regardless of whether the area is defined as a nature reserve, national park or a landscape protection area. Whereas financial compensation must cover losses arising from protection, such as the protection of claims in the event of the establishment of a nature reserve, which is currently in operation; I would therefore like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e718	The representative of Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e721	The government parties can make this pretty short, I think. There are currently different ways of dealing with these different areas of protection. There is a Document No. Eight proposals to change this, which in themselves can have a lot of good things in them. On the other hand, such cases should be seen in a context. They should be investigated. And in an answer from the Minister for the Environment to questions from the Committee, it has been said that it would be more natural for this to be dealt with in a slightly wider way. It is therefore requested that the mandate of the Biodiversity Regulatory Committee be extended to take into account the future nature of these safeguards. From our point of view, we agree with that proposal and feel that it is a sensible and proper treatment of a matter which can have quite extensive economic effects and which can also have a significant impact on the areas to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e728	It is increasingly protected here in the country. I would like to mention two areas: deforestation protection and the national park plan. We have debated deforestation earlier today, and the majority will increase significantly. The country plan for national parks and other large protected areas — which is much larger in area — is also in the process of being put to work after many years of preparation. It is about three forms of protection: reserves, national parks and landscape protection. They are all established by virtue of the Law on the Protection of Nature. So the basis for home meal is the same, but – and that is the point – the rules for compensation are unfortunately different. This is unfair. That's what the Central Party has wanted to do by promoting the proposal in question. Protection under the Nature Conservation Act is often conflicted. It concerns the protection against interference, protection against use, protection against continued exploitation or against new measures. It is a matter of general societal considerations that are addressed to continuing business activities or of prioritising public interests at the expense of private business. That's the way it has to be sometimes. However, when governments intervene in private law in the interests of society, it is difficult to accept for them the framework. It should not be difficult to deal with that situation. A number of factors have exacerbated the conflict. Firstly, the untimely procedure of the protection authorities has been burdensome. I think that's actually getting a little bit better. At least the intentions are clear, and the design of regulations for each area is often unnecessarily strict and detailed. The third element, which we are dealing with today and which is important to do something about not disrupting the protection work, is the requirement for a fair replacement principle. This is what most parties have said positively about, and I had in the name of justice the hope that it could be adopted quickly. But no! This issue will be examined once again, this time by the Biodiversity Committee, as the Minister for the Environment has set up before the Committee examines the matter. If it's the Minister's procedure that has influenced the Right and Christian People's Party to be so unenforceable in this matter, it's a shame. Onarheim also stated that this must be seen in a larger context. But a quick clarification would be a great advantage for all parties. It is very important that this is not seen as a training session, so the government must in its additional mandate to the Law Committee add up to a partial reporting already during this autumn. Changes in the rules on compensation have been updated in increasingly new areas of protection – a total of 46 – coming in rows and rows, and this time large sections of national parks are being laid on private grounds. The retroactive effect of the legislative changes that should come must be clear. In his letter to the Committee on 28 April of this year, the Council of State, Mr Brende, said that he would be in favour of this in the areas ‘where the safeguard decision has already been taken’, but where ‘the time limit for the claim for compensation has not expired’. State councils mention the Forollhogna National Park as an example. The deadline for promoting claims under the Nature Conservation Act is one year, and at the rate at which it is now set, I fear that very many deadlines will expire before the law change is in place. There should be so much justice and so much interest in alleviating the conflicts in the protection work that there should be clear signals that a fair principle of compensation must apply to all areas established on the basis of the National Park Plan, including the four already established. Finally, take those that apply on advice, they're the ones who know where the shoe prints. That's a good rule to follow. The basic ownership interests are completely out of the reach of the Biomangfold Parliamentary Committee. Take their representatives into the further work!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e748	Just a little clarification: We in the Labour Party and SV had mandated the government parties to speak on behalf of us as well. Onarheim didn't do that now, so I just want to say that in the Working Party and SV we are some of the assessments that the Minister for the Environment has done, namely that this should be included in the BLUT selection, that one should spend a little more time on it, and that one should give this selection an additional mandate. So with that clarification, which is also consistent with the wishes of very many hearing aids, I say thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e755	This government started implementing the National Park Plan. Before Christmas, the Forollhogna National Park became the first new national park in ten years. Recently, Dovrefjell and the Sunndal mountains were solemnly opened by H.M. King Harald. The continuation of this work is important, both in order to take care of important natural areas and biodiversity, which we have had in the past today, and in order to ensure people's opportunities for recreation and outdoor life. When society intervenes in the protection of private property, compensation shall be provided to landowners. That is the broad political agreement. In the case of the national park and the landscape protection area, compensation is currently provided in accordance with general compensation rules. Since 1985, the nature reserve protection has been replaced as if the area were expropriated by the State. This was an initiative taken by the government of Willoch in the 1980s. In the context of the examination of this matter, the majority of the Enlarged Committee expressed the following opinion: ‘As the Ministry, the majority will emphasise that the creation of reserves and natural memories will have effects in relation to landowners and rightholders close to expropriation. In landscape protection areas, on the other hand, economic activity shall continue to exist and the majority do not therefore consider it appropriate to place the protected areas in the same status as reserves and natural resources.’.» Both national and landscape parks will, in most cases, continue to facilitate traditional economic exploitation. Traditional exploitation is often a prerequisite for the value of areas, both for maintaining the natural environment and for outdoor interests. This is the background to the choice in 1985 of alternative replacement rules for nature reserves other than those for example: for national parks and landscape protection areas. The government believes that it makes sense to review the legislation when we are now in the start-up phase for the implementation of concrete protection decisions. Just because there has to be a link between compensation and continued business opportunities, it is natural to ask the Biodiversity Committee to carry out such a review. An additional mandate for the sample will be drawn up, and I have noticed the Committee's wish to involve relevant consultation bodies in the process. Since the Bio diversity committee has been set up without emphasis on the compensation rules in the nature protection law, I aim to complement the selection by one person with special competence in this field. Once the Bio diversity committee has made its recommendations, the government will be responsible for the further political follow-up. It is important that work on the replacement legislation does not delay the implementation of the national park plan. That is why I have decided that any new rules will also apply to areas that are being created until the change comes into effect, and to areas that have already been created and where the deadline for claims for compensation has not expired. I also ask that the representative, Mr Enger, take note of that. This also applies to the areas in which the representative was concerned, if, at a later stage, the Stortinget, following a recommendation from the Government, would choose to amend the replacement legislation with which the Willoch government concluded in 1985. This government, therefore, has been taking the initiative for the first time since 1985 to assess the rules on compensation in the field of nature protection protection. I see this as a significant response to the demands of the landowners, and believe that it will be an action that can increase acceptance and support the current protective plan work. I am therefore very surprised that the representative Enger is going so high on the track. As far as I am aware, the government that the Central Party took part in the last, i.e. the Bondevik I government, did not take the initiative to review this. The last time an initiative was taken to review this replacement legislation, the Central Party in its time chose to sit in government with the Right, in the Willoch Government. Then there was a review. Now, when the Right is back in the government position, another review is made. This is obviously best done in good cooperation between the Right Party and the Center Party, but obviously not when the Center Party is in government without the Right Party participating.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e777	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e780	Let me just say that the Centre Party has at least made a concrete proposal in this House to change the law on nature protection on this point. It was a proposal that the Right had the political cowardice not to vote for, no matter how much they say they're a private ownership party. This is a disappointing and remarkable setting. I find it disappointing that one at all does not choose to touch any of the main questions in the setting. I have to note that one so far chooses to push the whole issue over to a bio-diversity committee, a committee that does not have a specific mandate for this type of issue, nor does it have any specific competence in relation to these issues. This is a question which, at last, is about respect for private property rights, which should occupy both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. But it is obviously a question that is now to be overlooked in silence and pushed over to a sample, and which, so far, after I have heard both the Council of State and the representative of Onarheim, is simply marked by the fact that one here so far chooses to have a number of excuses. The centre party knows very well that compensation can be granted in accordance with general legal principles, but we also know that the general legal principles in this context, with the case law that has been given to it, mean that private landowners may in reality be at risk of not getting an ear in compensation. Then one says that this was not thoroughly assessed. This was then thoroughly assessed in connection with the Willoch Government's amendment to the Environmental Protection Act in 1985! The legal assessments of whether to include landscape protection areas and national parks in Section 20 of the Nature Conservation Act are exactly the same as for nature reserves, and can therefore also be considered on the same lines. The economic aspects are of course important. It'll cost you. But in fact, it costs if society is to restrict the ownership and ownership of the private owner over its own property. It costs money, and there is a cost society must be willing to take if one is to have the least respect for private ownership, which should occupy both the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal as it stands now creates new uncertainties. This draws on a long way and contributes to new ambiguities. It also contributes to the creation of areas such as national parks without a clear explanation of the issues of substitution. It is not that this is a new issue; one can read through the National Parks Communication of 1992 — it is almost 10 years since it was dealt with. There are a number of opinions both on the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party on this particular issue. We also say very nicely about the attitude to the protection of private property, which was taken into account in the National Park Communication in 1992. It was a whole new moment that was then taken in, as we all noticed appropriately, but as a obviously not so busy now that one was at the time. I have to say that the way in which one here deals with this matter does not deserve the case, nor does it deserve the private landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e798	This is a matter that we had not initially raised to a comprehensive debate on, and I hope it will not necessarily be. But let me give a little response back to the representative Arnstad's very committed posts. It makes me ask some questions that she might be able to answer. When this was so obvious all the way back to the Willoch government's time, why didn't Marit Arnstad take the same initiative while she herself was in government? That's the one. The second is that if there was a Document No: Eight proposals which, according to the government's assessment, had far-reaching consequences, would the then state councillor Marit Arnstad in a way accept that kind of procedure, or would she, as the state council, ask for this to be properly investigated? That's actually what the government is doing right now. It's a little strange that you get involved so strongly, because you're actually not necessarily against many of the ideas that lie in the background of the proposal, but you just want to have the necessary contexts and get them figured out as well as possible, so that you can get back to the Storing with a thorough debate on a topic that's difficult. And then there's an interesting situation: when we had the previous case for treatment a few minutes ago, we, both the Christian People's Party and the Right, were accused on the SV's side of the accusation that all the biodiversity was permeated by the private interests and our willingness to take care of them. So now Marit Arnstad says that the same parties are cowardly because you don't dare stand up and defend private property. It tells us that the government and government have probably found the necessary balance, also in the approach to the questions that we're in the middle of. It would have been interesting to get a response from Marit Arnstad on whether she herself, as a former councillor, would feel that this kind of treatment, through a Document No. 8-proposals, would trigger a need for a more thorough assessment by a government, if she had been sitting there now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e809	It is quite correct that I think this is a embarrassing matter for the government parties, just a embarrassing matter in relation to the history of these parties in terms of both the attitude towards private property rights and the attitude towards protection and compensation. In 1985, in connection with the amendments to the Law on Nature Conservation, which concerned nature reserves and private landowners, one was given legal answers. That material is located there and that material may be used for landscape protection areas as well as for national parks. There is no difference in the legal assessments in that way. In 1992, we had the treatment of the National Park Message. The Centre Party and the Advance Party then made a proposal to amend the compensation rules immediately. We did not receive support from the Right and Christian People's Party at the time, but the parties went very far in being positive about a change in the replacement rules. There was no way of how important private ownership was when it was included in the plan of protection, and that question was to be brought back. It's been nine years. I find it embarrassing that someone now comes with the kind of rhetorical points in relation to the Center Party and to me as a representative. The centre party promoted this proposal almost ten years ago! But it's clear that Ramm's posts are interesting if that means that he's now giving an opinion on these questions. One thing is that one here will take time to evaluate – if it was just as well – but the government parties do not give any opinion, no principal view on this issue. That's what I'm very disappointed in first of all. If Ramm's posts mean a small opening in relation to it, it is good, but this does not prevent the government parties' behaviour in connection with the setting being directly embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e820	I believe that the representative, Marit Arnstad, has followed in the debate that was earlier today. There were quite clear indications and attitudes in a number of important areas that also concern this issue. It would be completely unnecessary for government parties to repeat this in connection with a Document No. 8-proposals on a matter that the Government has notified that they will come to Stortinget with a thorough review of. So it's going to be that the representative Marit Arnstad sees this as embarrassing. What I find embarrassing is that the representative Marit Arnstad refers to a proposal from nine years ago. It's not been nine years since Marit Arnstad was in government. Then she had the opportunity to do something about it. She didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e827	Marit Arnstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e830	Only two brief comments. One is that nine years ago a national park plan was dealt with, in which the national parks that are now being adopted are based. It was then that one had the overall treatment of Forollhogna, of the Sunndal mountains, of Verdal and Lierne and Snåsa, which comes at the turn of the year. All the parks that you now adopt are based on the National Park Message. Then the replacement question was also raised. That was when you should have made these decisions, but then it wasn't. Now we have the chance again, and then Christian People's Party and Right will not. The other thing that I want to mention very briefly is that it's possible that the government parties didn't have the power to write anything in the setting because they said some things in the setting of biodiversity. But there are many around the country who have been concerned about this document no. The 8 proposal and this question. Out of respect for those who are concerned about it and affected by it, government parties should have cost themselves to write a few words.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e837	Just a brief comment on what is being treated now, and especially on the article by Brother Yngve Rahm. He said they don't necessarily have that much against the proposal. But there is no position here, either in principle or in practice, and it should at least have been signalled by the majority. If you do not have so much against this proposal, document No. The 8th proposal was annexed to the minutes rather than being rejected by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e844	For its part, the President will state that he is not sure if the debate anymore has so much to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e847	I have had that perception for a long time during this debate, but the last article can not, in fact, be undisputed. When the government takes the initiative to investigate a relationship, it is because it is believed that there is reason for an investigation. This was an initiative that the Center Party was not near to take in the years they spent in the Bondevik I government. The last time an investigation was made of this relationship was during the Willoch government. It was then concluded that the establishment of a nature reserve is taking such a great deal of action that it is to be treated as if it were expropriated, even though it is still a homeowner of the area. What we are now opening up is looking again at the form of compensation for the establishment of landscape protection areas and national parks. If the Center Party had been a little generous and generous, it would have been said here that this is good. They should have said that it is good that it should have retroactive effect. They should have said that it is good that we are now expanding the Biomangfold Parliamentary Committee with one representative. It should also be said that it is good to now be willing to discuss the mandate with the stakeholders. The conclusion of the Willoch Government, which also took part in the Central Party, was that it was only right to change the general basic replacement principles in connection with the establishment of nature reserves. The conclusion was that in the field of landscape protection it was the general compensation schemes that would apply. I understand that the Center Party has changed in retrospect. We have also been open to review in the context of the establishment of these national parks and landscape protection areas. There is also a political answer to the questions raised. And I don't think all those who do business in these areas actually think it's worth it that the Center Party is now desevaluating the vast hand that the Government has also joined in this case in relation to the investigation. In fact, I do not think that is in the interests of these businessmen. You also have to be glad that you're now actually from this government willing to investigate and review it, when the Center Party didn't lift a finger in relation to this when they were themselves in government. It's easy to do it in opposition, but that's what you do in government, you're judged from above.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e858	Any party and any representative shall be judged on the basis of what is being done in this room, both what is being done in opposition, and what is being done in position. The proposal was promoted nine years ago. The right then voted against. In 1985, it was not actually opened to protect the land as a national park. It was done in 1992. It is rather uninteresting now to discuss what was done by the previous Bondevik government, because the Central Party has made a proposal on this which we want to deal with as quickly as possible, in order to obtain a compensation scheme that will serve those who are affected by this. Of course, it is commendable that the government says that one should investigate this matter, but then one must also return to the question quickly, and in our opinion there is absolutely no need to conduct further investigations. It should be possible to clarify this in the manner provided for in this Document No. The 8 proposal, and in the case that has been raised by the Central Party. But I take note that they are not willing to do so. And now to discuss what the previous Bondevik government did, in my opinion, is quite uninteresting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e867	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e883	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3038]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e899	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e910	This is one of the two aggregate propositions we've been given to deal with after Easter, with very many and sometimes extensive issues that are very so summarily mentioned. We in the Labour Party are critical of this. Several of the cases are so extensive that they should be handled as own cases, with a much broader basis for the Storting to take the decisions we are invited to take. This is particularly true of the reorganisation of the state road system. In addition, when the issue of the conversion of the State Road Service comes apart, and when the State Council has hesitated to provide the Stortinget with the necessary information, yes, we see in the minority – the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party – reason to criticize. Let's say it's as strong as: ‘These members believe that the Council of State has exercised poor political discretion in relation to the strong obligation to provide information to the Stortinget. This is particularly true in matters of the Government's submission to the Stortinget. These members assume that, in their further action, the Council of State demonstrates the willingness to provide the Committee on Transport with all the information it needs.’.» Finally, the Committee found it necessary to call the Council of State to an open hearing. Here the council repeated that she had fulfilled the information obligation, and she repeatedly showed that she had answered the questions. The most mentioned question concerned costs associated with the conversion. In this case, the Council of State responded restrictively and only on the costs of setting up an interim company, not the total costs. The strange thing was that she answered other questions far more broadly in the same case. It gave us – and it gives us – a sense that she preferred to see that the Storting didn't get the information she had so far. Mr Nistad also said that he believed the 680 million. kr, mentioned in the case we are dealing with today, was the full cost of the reorganisation. I hope he is happy today that we in the Labour Party are beginning to ask questions, so that all the available numbers finally came out. Unfortunately, this did not happen until the VG had dug out the same numbers. But I wonder if the representative Nistad and the Progress Party today are satisfied with the way things have been done, and with the information the Council of State chose to submit to the Committee, or whether they support the critical comments of the minority. I have given up making it clear to the Council of State that she has exercised poor judgment when it comes to the obligation to provide information to the Storting. What is certain is that if she had taken more self-responsive responsibility to provide the Committee with the information necessary to take decisions on the matter, she would have saved herself too much trouble. I hope she's learned from this. The reorganization of the state road system is a very comprehensive case dealing with a very important area of society. This sector employed approx. 10,000 people. Only in the context of the State budget will Stortinget get its full width for handling. This procedure is unfortunate for two reasons: The size of the population takes everything into account in our decisions with significant budgetary implications and consequences – and this before we see the wholeness in the matter. The size is not allowed to decide on the decisive issues of the new company, such as the opening balance sheet and important framework conditions for the company, until a few weeks before the company is to enter a highly competitive everyday life. I feel that they are members of the company, especially those who are my age and older. They can spend a rough time meeting a very uncertain and delayed job, which may want to get rid of them. This can soon become a new example of the brutalised working life, with the state in the driver's seat. For us in the Labour Party, it would have been a better and more serious option if this case had been initiated by a larger case for Stortinget, a matter of principle and objectives for reorganization, with estimates of costs and possible efficiency improvements, with a scheme for how they were added, and with a proposal for an opening balance sheet. All of this should have been worked out in close cooperation with the State Road Administration – both rental and addition. The added ones have so far shown great willingness to convert. The councils could probably get a lot of good advice, and she had dropped the massive criticism she's received from their organizations. The final result would then both be better anchored in the building and would allow Stortinget to handle the matter in a proper way. Now, in many ways, it is going to lie down like a workbow. After much, but we can say the following when it comes to the reorganization of the state road system: 1st@item: inlistbox The costs of reorganization and expected deficits in the first few years seem to be close to NOK 4 billion. The sum may be increased if the costs of waiting and early retirement will go beyond what you expected.2. Governments have not shown that we can get more money. She has claimed this, as soon as she has not been able to give clear answers to the cost, and she has started to take 255 million. kr from the way to finance the reorganisation already this year.3. For periods they have been very dissatisfied with the procedure. I have noticed that they added a statement on TV2 that their well-known government councils are saying about inefficiency in the open hearing as a blow to the face. That might not have been said, and it may be difficult to see it as an invitation to good and constructive cooperation. I have noticed that the Council of State has said how sorry it is in a letter for them to add, and I hope that the process is now entering a more constructive path. The Labour Party opposed the conversion of the State Road Administration’s production department into a public limited liability company to be designated as 100 pst. from 1 January 2003. We still take the majority's decision about this to be noted. So to some other things in this proposition. First, about the student and student discounts. There are many numbers, percentages and statements in this case. Proposals for discounts may have proved to be underfunded by the last two governments. What's important now is that there's a multiple of 40 pst. Discount. In addition, in the Labour Party, we have invested money in the revised national budget so that it can also cover the NSB, the Nord-Norbussen and Hurtigruta from 1 August. We're going in to give you 50 pst. The discount from next year, and it comes back to us in connection with the management of the collective communication. So a couple of things on the Air Force's responsibility. Let me first mention a matter in which the members of the Committee agree, in particular that the Aviation Agency should establish a training centre for fire and rescue services in Teldensund. The reorganisation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company combined with the fact that a majority of the Board of Directors is opposed to such an establishment has raised doubts about this establishment locally. Now all such doubts should be cleared of the road. A majority decided in the context of the management of the State budget on a review of the Aviation Agency’s economy and asked for an assessment of the need for additional promises or other measures. We in the Labour Party regard the review of this proposition as rather deficient, and will ask for a more thorough review to be made in connection with next year's budget. We are very little satisfied with the fact that the plural set out the necessary repair and expansion of Stavanger Airport, the Sola, indefinitely, despite that a plurality, all unaccepted SV, promise something else last fall. This should be difficult for country spokesmen and spokesmen from the Right of the region to defend. The Labour Party asks the Government to submit proposals for start-up appropriations in connection with the 2003 budget. I hope it will happen, despite the fact that this doesn't get multiple numbers today, but because a plural promised it as late as last fall. The working party has been in favour of this expansion before, of course for the benefit of our travelers, but not least for the sake of the Aviation Administration's economy, and for the sake of the many airports that have enjoyed the excess created on the Sun. The size has stated in several circumstances that the Lofoten mainland link should be passed on as soon as possible. Progress has now stopped since the required control plans were not approved by the local government of Hadsel. A large number of people, all unrecognized SV, think that the government must actively support the necessary clarifications in the planning work and secure the progress of the project. Here we have argued that the Council of State is taking immediate action. Finally, I must mention: It is positive that a future savings subsidy for ferry services can be collected for 15 years when planning a holiday relief project. It is particularly positive that the majority, all non-profit SV, are asking for savings resulting from a used ferry to replace a new one, also to be included in this calculation.It is positive that more money is allowed for racial protection.It is positive that the Lister package is now approved, and that the increase in travel within and through the West Agder finds a solution.It is positive that the plans for a new freight terminal in Trondheim are not made on ice, and that both Bratttöra and Leang are to be evaluated as alternatives in a new arrangement.It is positive that we are now getting multiples for a winding-up arrangement for large county road projects, and that there is a multiple that obliges the Government to come back with proposals for such a concession to the Jondal Tunnel in the 2003 budget. There's a lot of joy in the district! And even though this was at last quite far, I have taken a close look at all the matters mentioned in this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e987	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e990	The installation to Ausdal Starrfeldt and the debate on this matter so far certainly shows one thing, that the person who wants to change is having trouble. But we also know that whoever doesn't want to change has lost. In addition to spending a lot more money on different issues of transport, both in the budget and in the revised national budget, the Government and the majority of the population have made several important structural changes in order to make better use of the money. One of these measures is to convert the Swedish Aviation Agency into a limited liability company. We want full control of the main lines after we get the form of a share company, but such a form will be much more prudent for the Swedish Aviation Agency's investments through shifting times and shifting economic cycles. We know that the revenue of the Aviation Agency is very dependent on the activity that is in the air, i.e. the number of air passengers. And the decline we have now seen, both in the light of the general decline and the events of 11 September, has given the Swedish Aviation Administration an economy that, although the Government has proposed increasing the air traffic services' licensing, only insurance measures can be implemented for years to come. There will be no room for that, and no one has proposed anything more for other important investments. Starrfelt called the Sun, others will call Churchnes, both of which are very important projects. The point is that in a form of a limited liability company, the Aviation Administration would be able to raise loans to make such necessary investments irrespective of whether traffic is increasing or falling. Does not the representative Starrfelt and the Labour Party believe that the seniority and ability to make such investments are important?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1001	If the representative at the same time responded to the reply, remember to take up the proposal that has been made, it would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1004	Then I will deal with the proposal that the Labour Party has put forward together with the other party. Then to the line. I have been so much a politician and so much a leader that I know that changes lead to trouble. But I also know that it can be a goal to anchor the changes as best as possible among those that are in debt, those that are covered by it, and that the process is the most decisive element for whether a change is going well or bad. Here I think it's done very bad craftsmanship in the case of Vegvesen. I'm aware that the airline lease wants to become an AS, but I'm not aware that there's a whole set of demands from the airlines. Then I would like to say that a majority during the budgetary procedure last year asked for a review of the Aviation Administration's economy, where the consequences of the current economy came to light. It's gotten very bad out there, a little bit too bit by bit. It seems like it's the brand, and that means we don't fully understand the consequences. The claim that there is now only money for insurance measures is related to issues in the committee, not as part of the review of the proposal. That's what I think is too bad. It could be that the Labour Party was willing to spend a little more money on aviation – at least it remains for me – and for us – to see how an AS is going to get so much more money. The size can now also allow the Swedish Aviation Agency to borrow money if that's what they need to do to avoid postponing important investments like that in the Sun. So there's actually not the big difference. That being said, I hope that there will be a solution both in the Sun and in the Churches quite quickly, because there are actually several of us in this room who have promised this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1017	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Have Svendsen asked for a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1022	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1027	I'm sorry! I have overlooked that Kenneth Svendsen had asked for a line. Then he'll have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1030	Thank you. It was a gesture from one fauskewäring to another. We have a lot of things in this document, and as usual, as we often see, there are toll cases – new toll projects and funding of them. It is amazing that we are constantly getting these toll projects when you know that the construction industry has many vacant workers ready to do a job on the road. We know that we can get foreign workers to do a job here, and we know that we have $600 billion standing, among other things. in shares in cigarettes, Phillip Morris, and Coca Cola, etc. What surprises me is that you do not put this money into work instead of having the drivers pay again. I wonder what kind of ideology it is, or, as the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party constantly like to say about the Progress Party, human vision, which is behind buying shares in cigarette factories rather than laying down the money in the construction of infrastructure in this country, building roads? I wonder what kind of vision is behind this? So I want to ask you a little question about this with the Road Service Production Department. The Labour Party has on several occasions priced competition, but it appears that it only applies if it is between private operators. Every time it deals with government employees who are to be put out to competition, there is a total resistance to this. Why is it that once you mix public employees into this, it doesn't work competition, but otherwise it does it for the benefit of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1045	To take the last first. It is not new now that the Road Service is competing. They've done it for a long time, and they're doing it pretty well. In any case, where I come from, it's a lot of joy when it comes to the work that the Road Service is doing. Now, what we're about to add is that we're about to step away from the great competence they have in the Road Service, in hopes of getting something cheaper. Then I hope that the representative Svendsen later might ask the Council of State about this in relation to the fact that it is now taking money from the road to conversion. So to this with the toll project. The alternative in Norway is usually that people know that they can get money, maybe in 2013, in 2015, or maybe they don't know if they get it at all, at least not when they get it. And then they actually think it's better to pay a little bit of money in a package, to get the project out, in part get some projects that one or the other wouldn't get the money for. And the local decisions respect us in the Labour Party when people – with reasonable support – ask for a project in Kommune-Noreg. There is one in my municipality, in my region, the Nord-Jären package, which has a lot of good elements in it. People – and that is what I said – get annoyed when we discuss the tolls, but after a while one turns to it quite well. Then I would remind you that people in this country have paid tolls as long as it has our boats and ferries. So there's no new phenomenon. The difference is that a now also pays money on the way. The fees you pay there are minimal compared to those that you pay on ferries. And then I'm one of those people who thinks it's a good idea to keep track of the economy. Getting a lot of people to work is very little if everyone in the next round gets a strong interest rate increase. It will not be good, either for the road sector or for other sectors in this country. So we believe in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1057	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1060	This is an aggregate proposition dealing with many issues in the transport sector. I will take some of these matters to heart in my article. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, i.e. the State budget, underlined to the Ministry that developments in aviation were very uncertain and that one would return to the Stortinget with a revision of the budget if developments made this necessary. Since the autumn, demand for the services of the Aviation Agency and traffic revenue has been further reduced. The revenue from air charges has been reduced. This is mainly due to the general decline in traffic and events in the United States on 11 September 2001. Following the terrorist acts in the United States, exceptional security measures were put in place. This applies, inter alia, to: checks on passengers, cabin baggage and hold baggage at all our major aerodromes. The government has now added 70 million. kr extra to improve the Aviation Administration’s economy. It makes it possible to increase the activeness of improvements and upgrades at national airports. It is important to improve safety. The extra contribution of 70 million. kr will strengthen this purpose. We know that many people on a daily basis feel unsafe on the way from work to work, from school to school. This uncertainty comes because on their roadside calculation there are dangerous lots where race can occur. Too many accidents have occurred in recent years because of race. That's why it's a pleasure for me to refer to the 50 million increase in appropriations. kr to racial protection entered by the Government in the revised budget. It's going to add up to 320 million. kr adopted in the 2002 budget for the project and measures with racial protection gains. Racism is an area where government parties will give priority. In this respect, I would like to refer to the 2002-2005 Action Plan. With regard to the reorganisation of the State Road Administration, there is a large and demanding process, which was initiated by the government of Stoltenberg. There was broad agreement on the conversion of the management part. In the case of the production department, a majority wanted to transform the production department into a state limited liability company, while the minority at that time wanted a divisional model. On the right, it was important to establish a limited liability company so that the production department could compete in the same way as the private ones in the market. This will give more way to the money. Such a large conversion is demanding. In the short term, we'll see that the gain is much greater than the conversion costs. The costs set out in the 2002 Proposition relate to both management and production, while the costs over the period 2003–2005 relate only to management. With regard to the costs of reorganising the production department, we will come back to this in the context of the 2003 State budget. That such reorganisation has a cost side, the government also underlined Stoltenberg in its budget proposal, St. pp. No 1 for 2001-2002: «The conversion of the State Road Service will depend on many and require a high level of willingness to convert and adaptability. The consequences for individuals will arise both as a result of the effectiveness measures outlined above and of the new organisation. Together with a reduced need for resources, the necessary recruitment of new competences will lead to a relatively large number of over-numbered people.The Ministry of Transport points out that additional costs will arise from organisation, migration and deployment.» This shows that there is no choice between the divisional model, to which the Government of Stoltenberg provided, and the limited liability company that leads to conversion costs, but downsizing as a result of efficiency improvement. As regards valuation, opening balance sheet setting, employees’ rights, legal conditions and budgetary conditions, this will be the case in the context of the 2003 government budget. Today, the Storting will give a clear signal to the other OPS project in the road sector. It's happening in West Agder. This is an extension and necessary project. E18 and E39 through Agder have been the highest priority in the transport sector for several years from all 30 municipalities, both counties and business in both counties. This road section is one of the most accident-affected road sections we have seen in relation to the volume of traffic. This is a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, we have a long way to get an acceptable tribal road network through Agder. I am pleased that the Storting will decide to start this route today. This project is part of the Lister package, which is partly toll-financed. The OPS project itself concerns a new E39 between Handeland and Feda in Kvinesdal and the operation of the entire distance between Lwggal and Flekkefjord. The entire Lister package contains nine projects, including the OPS project. This concerns the conversion of Rv 43 between Aunevik and Bukkensteinen in Lvgal and Rv 465 between Rundrefjord and Ulland in Farsund and Kvinesdal. In addition, road safety measures along existing E39 are included over Kvinesheia and various measures on the road network in the municipalities of Farsund, Lwagal, Kvinesdal and Gånebostad. With regard to the project itself, there is broad political consensus in the municipalities concerned as well as in the Western Agder county. The total cost has been calculated at well DKK 1.6 billion, and that in itself is a good boost for the Lister region and for the region. As far as the route through Agder is concerned, it is important that it remains a high priority. This E39 investment reduces the distance between Kristiansand and Stavanger by 15 km and is an important contribution to upgrading the coastal line. It connects the parts of the country more closely, which is important for the usual driver, and not least for our business. The route over Kvinesheia is an accident-affected route, and we are looking forward to replacing this distance. The list package will also link the region more closely and better together and ensure the development of a robust housing and labour market region. For several years, residents in several of our islands have wanted mainland connections rather than fixed ferry connections. Being able to prioritise when you want to come and go is important for the individual. In several of these islands today, there is industry, an industry that is absolutely dependent on good prosperity. It is therefore very gratifying that the Government now intends to use savings of ferry grants for holiday relief projects. Alternative use of the ferry premium means that saved operating, maintenance and capital costs related to the ferry link can be used for partial financing of connections making the ferry redundant. In addition, toll financing and other local grants may be used. That is why what we are adopting today is very positive for more island communities along our coast. Finally, I want to get into the school and student discount on the local public transport network. The right and the government parties are very pleased that the government has invested funds so that the discount rate in the scheme is now 40 pst. an increase of 4 million. kr to NSB and by 17 mill. kr to counties. In the draft budget of the government of Stoltenberg for 2002, only funds were put in at a discount rate of around 15 p.m. I am very pleased with our proposal on this initiative, which benefits young people and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1110	The financial situation of the Aviation Agency is by no means a simple matter, and it should worry us all because it affects an important operator in terms of road safety and traffic provision in the country. What has happened internationally has affected the revenues of the Swedish Aviation Agency, and they themselves estimated a loss of approx. 200 million. kr for the current year of the budget adopted. To compensate for this, the Government originally proposed an additional 100 million. kr. In negotiations with the Progress Party, this subsidy is reduced to 70 million. kr. I have to say that – for me at least – it appears to be an unusually creative accounting system when the majority then concludes that this is a significant investment in the Aviation Agency. I think you could manage to find some other explanations that at least gave a picture of an active down-priority here that can go beyond both the offer, the safety and the number of airports. The reorganization of the output of the state road system to an AS has been commented on and will also be commented on in the further debate. I'm just going to point out one problem here, which I think can be important in relation to what was said. In order for the public to have the ability to act as a good market correction, the public must also have a competence. They need to know what they're doing, and that's exactly what they're doing right now, that's what's going on for sale. The AS-certification carried out in the manufacturing part of the State Road Service actively detracts from the ability to know how to deal with the market and correct where it makes sense to do so, in order to ensure the best possible economy, and it should worry Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1122	The airline's economy worries, it does. But I want to say that the 70 million. kr that has been submitted by the Right and the Government is a positive contribution. It was initially 100 million, and it was reduced by 30 million. kr, that's true enough. But what the Right and Government parties are doing is that we allow the Aviation Agency to go into and prioritize what is most important in this situation, namely security and security at our airports. On the other hand, the Workers' Party is doing something different. They will continue to give priority to the development to take place. I have to say that as long as the situation is like that, it's important that we put in the funds where they get the most out of security and security for people, namely, when it comes to control and upgrade, instead of maybe doing a bunch of new investments. With regard to the State Road Service, they have a very good competence today, and they need even more. That's what it's all about in this transition. We have time in the future, and I know that the department is very concerned that there will be competence in place, so that employees can go out and compete in the same way as the private ones in the market. I know this is worrying for the Workers' Party, but I believe that it will succeed, and I also believe in the employees of the State Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1131	Of all the things that are in the bulk proposition today, the reorganization of the State Road Service is probably the most in the shot. Even now, some of the costs of reorganization have started to come, unfortunately. Then I want an explanation from the representative from the right. Int. S. No 119 for 2000-2001, on the national transport plan, the right was very high on the road, and so were they at the elections, that an improvement in the efficiency of the state road system would really give us some cash, and we would have a number of roads built in this country. They were so high on the track that they said the win would be 10 pst. improving the efficiency of the road sector, and then adding DKK 10 billion to national road investment in the treatment of the national transport plan. That's when I wonder: how does this relate when we're starting to get a lot of costs, while the Right was high on the track and had 10 billion extra kroner in connection with the National Transport Plan? And a little additional question: Will the Right now ensure that the reorganisation does not go beyond the road budgets that are, but that there are extra appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1138	Everyone knows, I'll believe including the Advance Party, that conversion will cost, efficiency will cost for a period of time. It's insurmountable, there's rights to put in place, there's competence building for the employees to be left, one might have to bring up new skills – it's a bit expensive in a transition phase. But we also know that from 2003 the effect of this transformation begins to come. If we hadn't done the conversion, we wouldn't have gotten that effect out, and the effect we're starting to see in 2003, will benefit Road-Norway. I'll guarantee it. – I don't think I want to say anything more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1147	It's hard to blame the government fraction for having a big and beating heart for the railroad. A majority of the Stortinget has ensured that the investment funds for the railway are scarce. In St. prp. No In 60, the government has taken a reasonable step – they inform us that the NSB and the Railway Agency do not need a new freight terminal at Leangen. We've been critical of the freight terminal forever. It will make it impossible to connect port to rail. When the government fraction in connection with the message we're going to discuss on Thursday, the collective communication, emphasizes up to several times that we're going to use our scarce railway resources where the railway has its advantage, I think you're dealing with this matter in a slightly strange way. The government writes in the proposition: ‘The railway system has now come to the conclusion, in consultation with the NSB, that there will be no need to move the freight terminal from Brattøra, and it is therefore not necessary to build a new freight terminal on Leangen.’ Does the Right believe that building a freight terminal on Leangen is to bet on the railway where the railway has its advantage? And do you really think that, unlike what the Government writes in the proposition, it is necessary to build a new freight terminal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1162	We have put a bet on the Railway Agency. In 2002, it's 9 pst. And in the case of NSB, it's 30 pst. in two years – just to make it firm. With regard to the railway works, the length and location of the terminal, we know that this has an economic side for the railway works, but it also has a local side. There has been treatment in the municipality of Trondheim for several years, where one has looked at urban development, and where one has had regulatory plans that have been adopted. With respect for local democracy, it is important that we take another round, including the alternative that Trondheim Municipality and Trondheim City Council have agreed to. It does so now, and then an assessment shall be made of the location of the railway station. I think it would have been too bad if we just turned down and overlooked what happened locally. I would like to include the decision that exists in Trondheim. I'm going to think that one of these will figure out a solution. It can end with what is today – it will see 1 September. I think what we're doing now is neat, and we take into account local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1171	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1174	I'll briefly address some of the issues mentioned in this proposition. In particular, I would like to refer to the proposals made by the Progress Party in the context of the National Transport Plan, where the Progress Party provided for an increase of NOK 46 billion in road and road investment. Therefore, in the Progress Party, it is unacceptable to fund the reorganisation of the State Road Service by reducing the size of road construction and maintenance. We assume that the Government will bring a new case of reorganisation where the expenditure is covered by its own allocation, without any reduction in the maintenance and investment budgets for state roads. Of course, we in the Progress Party support a reorganization as described in the proposition, and an organisation of the production part of a limited liability company. However, we believe that it would be more appropriate to entrust the Ministry of Economic Affairs with the management of the ownership of the shares in the production unit. This will ensure independence and prevent motivation for using own departments. With regard to the mention of the three E6 cases, the Progress Party considers that E6 Assurtjer/Vinterbro–Klemetsrud must have the highest priority, and we assume that the savings of 15 million. kr does not affect the progress of the project. In the case of E6 at Melhus, we are pleased that a four-field solution now finally seems to be selected, based on a goal of continuous four-field E6 all the way between Trondheim and Oslo. Furthermore, we point out that the Progress Party has gone in to add E6 outside the Steinkjer Center, but we're joining the Government's conclusions. In the case of E6 Østfold, which is referred to very briefly, we will show that the Progress Party has introduced a Document No. Eight proposals for E6 Østfold to be completed at the same time as completion on the Swedish side. In fact, we in the Progress Party have given E6 first priority to road development in this country through Eastfold. In the case of the Tønsberg package, which is also very briefly mentioned, and to which one will come back, we refer to our comments in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan on state funding of the entire road network. We don't see any need to come back to this, because we want the project funded by government funds. We also believe that, in the case of E39 in West Agder, the road system should be financed by state resources. I will finally have our proposal, which is included on page 15 of the setting, which reads: ‘The measures mentioned at E39 in West Agder, cf. St. pp. [[2001-2002]] No 60
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1194	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1199	I wonder if the representative Nistad and the Progress Party are looking at the transformation of the Road Service Production Department into a public limited liability company as an intermediate station for full privatisation, and what kind of progress plan they may have for this. So I said in my post that I was wondering if the Progress Party was satisfied with the information given by the Council of State in St. prp. No 50 and St. Prp. No 60 on this matter, on the transformation of the Road Service. Now, to the extent that the representative Nistad had bad information, I wonder a little about why the Progress Party does not say anything about this in the setting. It seems they're afraid to criticize. If they think it's critical, they should have been with the minority – then it would actually be a plurality. So I just want to challenge Nistad on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1206	I was challenged by the reorganisation of the Vegvesen here, and especially the information provided by the Council of State. I will acknowledge that I have been critical of that information myself. I don't have the sense to read what the cost really is, when I turn up the VG – I will honestly admit that. So the flow of information could have been a lot better. But after the hearing that was, I sat for a long time and based on what I was going to do, whether or not I should follow the Workers' Party, and I then came to the conclusion that when the Council of State admits that she is talking about another big message than the one that concerns this, I have to believe that she has given the answer after another message and not this one. That's the preliminary conclusion to this, but I'm going to admit that I had my concerns. Another thing Ausdal Starrfelt brought up was the conversion of the State Roadway to a limited liability company. Yeah, of course we've been fighting for that every year, so that's nothing new at all. And we didn't go to work as drastic as the Right did in the treatment of the National Transport Plan in terms of efficiency. We added that the Road Service might be able to achieve 5 pst. improving efficiency by switching to a limited liability company. Another right draft with 10 pst. Improving efficiency, of which DKK 10 billion in the national transport plan, i.e. DKK 1 billion per year. years. We didn't believe in such large numbers. As far as part of Vegvesenet is concerned, it is correct, as Mr. Ausdal Starrfelt says, that much of the expansion today is already out of tender. The road system is probably not as miserable as you would think from the description given by the Council of State from the pulpit here earlier, and that we also got in the hearing. I think that description was a little on the edge, with the employees in Vegvesen – I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1213	The Government proposed that the Swedish Aviation Agency should receive an additional 100 million. kr due to loss of income. In the agreement between the Government and the Advance Party, this additional appropriation was reduced to 70 million. kr. In the suspension of this case, the Progress Party has maintained a very clear observation that it would be irresponsible to reduce the level of investment. The Progress Party ‘does not consider it appropriate to expose investments to 98,4 million. kronor for investment in aerodrome facilities». And then you quote what it's going to go beyond. This reduction will have consequences for Evenes, for Flesland and for the Haugesund aerodrome. So my question to Nistad, in the context of the comment here, is whether he believes that the budgetary reduction that the Progress Party and the Government Parties have now agreed on in the aviation sector is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1220	I'm willing to admit that you would have liked to have needed more money to expand the airports, and it's clear that there are very few airports – there are probably only three of them – that go with profits. They should have actually been fully developed, so that we had generally received more revenues that we could then distribute to the airports that are running in deficit. So I clearly see that reduction there, and some investments are being postponed. I'm sorry. Another side of this case is that if you had done what the Progress Party wanted, that each airport was a separate share company, and that the operation was offered, you might have quite different numbers from what you have today. Then the negatives wouldn't have been so huge. Because today it's actually minus 41 airports, while it's positive for 3. Then maybe the figures for the Aviation Agency had looked completely different than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1227	There are several toll projects in this proposition, and the Progress Party clearly states that they are against the use of tolls and will otherwise finance them. It's all right if you had been consistent. But the Progress Party is not, because if there can be a bypass, they can go in to use tolls. And I have to say that I think there is very little solidarity in such thinking, so some people are going to be allowed to take advantage of the possibilities of running around, and others are going to show solidarity by paying. Then the Progress Party shows that they went in for 46 billion extra kroner in connection with the national transport plan, and that is affordable. But then we know that the Progress Party has now been in a position to negotiate money, among other things. on the road, in the context of the revised national budget. So there it was moved by 600 million. kr. And we waited anxiously and expected the Progress Party to demand more money. So they haven't. Instead, it became a cut. We have to take responsibility for that. But why don't you demand money when you're in position for it? So finally about priority. I see that the Progress Party is pleased that there will be a four-field road at Melhus, and we can be happy about that. But as the Progress Party continues, it is “from the objective of continuous, four-field E6 all the way between Trondheim and Oslo”. As far as I know, this is a very variable year-on-year traffic. Could it be the right use of the money to go in for the continuous four-field road between Oslo and Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1236	To the last one, yes. And that's a loud yes. Some major roads we have to expand whether we want to or not. We've said that we spend the money at any cost. Then it was that we were not consistent with the toll project. I've repeatedly said that to the boring thing over the five years I've been sitting here with Sahl: OK, we're approving a toll project, but then you're going to start paying this way when it's done, and you're going to have the choice between new and old roads. It's the same principle that you use in a lot of other countries, and I would recommend the representative of the Christian People's Party to travel and see how to use this elsewhere. So it was short about revised. That's absolutely right, we didn't promote that much to go there. We made a lot of progress in relation to the national transport plan. But the Progress Party has always said that it is health first. And so when the money bag of the representative Sahl and the other Sem-mates is so small, we have to fight to get well up first. Then we have taxes, and we managed to get rid of the famous car tax where you had somehow created a huge bureaucracy out of extra tax. That's where we did it. That we didn't get ashore and got something more going, of course I'm sorry who's driving the road, but I also have to bend for health and taxes to come in front of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1245	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1249	I would like to point out at the outset that very many major issues have been raised in this case. Together, I have spoken up, big and small, over 20 individual things. I would like to express myself critically, on the part of our section of the Committee on Transport, that so many large individual items are presented in a joint motion. I hope that the Council of State will take note of this, and that we get these big issues individually as individual matters. It allows for a better procedure. I then get time to comment only a few. The Government proposed in the revised national budget to increase the funding of the Aviation Agency by 100 million. kr. The Air Force has asked for 200 million. kr due to loss of income. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, the additional appropriations have been reduced to 70 million. kr. Deteriorating revenues resulting from traffic decline will lead to an income loss for the Aviation Agency of 200 million. kr. The impact of the reduction in the financial framework that we will now have will be the outsourcing of planned necessary investments. In this round it hits Evenes, Haugesund and Flesland. I definitely believe that the Stortinget must pledge to increase the allocation to the Aviation Agency in the years to come, not to stimulate increased air traffic, but to secure existing airport networks. The need to upgrade the aerodromes, not least the short-haul network, in order to meet new and stringent safety requirements will require investments in the coming years, major investments. Therefore, the reduction resulting from the budgetary conciliation this time between the government parties and the Progress Party can be seen as a signal that the bulk of the population has not overtaken the challenges we face in this area. It shall be informed of the adopted transformation of the Aviation Agency into AS. I find that it has taken time to bring the matter before Stortinget. SV was clearly opposed to the transformation of the Swedish Aviation Agency into AS, and here I would also repeat that the Swedish Aviation Agency’s board – it seemed that the committee leader had not understood it – recommended a different solution than AS, BA. But they went in for AS when the Council of State's conclusion was ready. This airport structure is a very important part of the infrastructure, where social governance needs to be maintained. The fact that it takes time to transform the Aviation Agency into AS, suggests that this transformation, like the transformation of the Road Administration, is also becoming more expensive for the state than it was supposed to be. The reorganization of the State Road Service is promoted for Stortinget in several individual cases instead of in a separate case where the whole is presented. There is still not a full overview of the costs, and I am still amazed that the government did not know what it would cost to reorganize, as this was presented to the State budget’s Stortinget. When the state budget was dealt with, the reorganisation of the Vegvesenet was marketed by the government parties as this would save the state money, we would get more money. So far it hasn't happened. In this case it is proposed to take from the road budget, chapter. 1320 item 30, to finance the reorganization costs. I would also, on the part of the SV fraction, express criticism of the ability of the Council of State to inform the Committee of the costs of the reorganisation of the Road Administration. A number of questions were asked from several of the fractions about getting all the information. It became necessary to carry out an open consultation. Our conclusion after this consultation round is that poor judgement had been shown by the Council of State in relation to being active in informing the Committee. Progress is explained in the Racial Protection Action Plan, and there is a follow-up to the Storing Decision in the context of the State budget. The government proposes to increase the frame by 50 million. indicates that the annual appropriations are to be increased sharply. It's positive. It is clear that the signals from Stortinget this winter have been perceived that the effort in relation to racial protection needs to be increased. But it's a long way to go before the road network is racistally secure. The national racial protection group, consisting of representatives of the seven most at risk, has estimated that the Norwegian road network will cost NOK 15 billion. That means it's a long way to go. I would like to encourage the Council of States to cooperate with the National Racial Security Group. They represent an important competence, and they represent the most racial parts of the country. I would like to mention in particular a road project where SV is not involved in the majority comment, but which we nevertheless support. In the case of Rv 651, Greifsneset-Løvikneset, where the county authority has foreclosed significant funds and where part of the 50 million additional allocation. kr shall contribute to financing. We support the project and the extra funding. It's a very rascal area that's being secured and that gets a good solution. The change we made was the formulation of the impact on the Eiksund link. We were originally at what was in the proposal from the Government in the matter. On the SV side, we are pleased that there is a majority to support the plan and launch of the Jondal Tunnel in Hordaland. The Jondal tunnel is a good road project with more positive effects. It's a good race safety project. Many road users do not drive in very rough areas. It is of great regional importance, better communication between Odda and Bergen. It connects Hardanger and Kvinnherad, and it helps us to make full use of the effect of the Folgefonn tunnel. Here I would like to refer to the comments made by the majority of the committee that it is assumed that this county road project will not be at the expense of other road projects in Hordaland which are prioritised within the framework of the national transport plan. Finally, a few words about the establishment of the fire and rescue training centre in Tjeldsund, Northland. It has been adopted in the past by the Storting, and it has been adopted in the past by, among others: Mr Odd Einar Dørum, Minister of Transport, said that this training centre was to be set up in Tjeldsund, Northern Ireland. It has been exposed and there is now considerable uncertainty as to whether it will be implemented as a result of becoming AS. Here I would like to refer to and underline what is stated in the majority comment, namely that this training centre should be established regardless of whether the Aviation Agency becomes AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1278	I noticed that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen spoke warmly for the Jondals project, but underlined that it should not go beyond other projects in Hordaland. I also noticed that he was worried that there would not be enough money at the time of the conversion to AS. Now it's clear that the same lot is going to go against several of the road projects that are already in the prototype. One of the projects on which there is a majority comment is not included. I want to ask a direct question to the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen. He comes from the county where this project, the mainland of Lofoten, is located, more specifically from the city of Narvik, where we know that there is a great interest in completing this project, not least linked to the ARE project and the fish from Lofoten that are going out by train. It's an over-mature project, and there's money in the national transport plan. There is a majority comment in the position where SV is not present, asking the Minister to speed up the work to get this project up to budgeting in the 2003 budget. Why isn't SV included?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1283	When it comes to SV's willingness to grant money, I think it's at least as big as the government's parties. In our alternative budget proposal, we were well above what became the final framework this year, but we have a different priority. We have prioritised the road in the districts stronger than the majority constellation here in the hall. In the case of Lofast, we had a comment in connection with the State budget that the Sigerfjord option should also be considered when considering Lofast in the Government. We also underlined in our remark that this assessment should not be at the expense of the progress of Lofast. It is important to stress that we also believe that progress must be ensured. However, the wording of this majority remark does not adequately reflect our primary position. So we didn't go into that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1290	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1293	St. Prop. No 60 is a collection of a number of cases in the Department of Transport's area of different character and different scope. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the transition to the state road service is underway and that it is signaled that the Government will come back to this matter with a valuation and opening balance in the new entrepreneurship company in the state budget for 2003. An overall committee has no comments on the chapter. 1310 entry 70 ‘Rewards for domestic air routes’ and cap. 1311 entry 70 Aviation Agency regional airports. However, adjustments to previous programmes and budgets have been needed due to reduced air travel, partly due to the tragedy in the United States on 11 September, with a combined traffic revenue of approx. 200 million. kr in relation to the St.prp. No One added up. This leads, for example, to: to adopt a pending position on the Sola development plans, costing 562,5 million. kr. In this context, the Christian People's Party and the Right refer to letters from the Council of State of 5 June 2002 on the solstices, which state that the assumptions have changed since SAS bought Braathens. The area needs are not as precarious now as they used to be. We believe that the expansion of the Sola is necessary and given a high priority when the Swedish Aviation Agency is given an improved framework for investment. An overall committee now believes that it is important to put into practice the intentions of the majority of the population regarding the training centre in Tjeldsund, where it is, among other things, important. promote its own proposal on the matter. As far as racial protection is concerned, there is reason to note the letter from the More and Romesdal County Municipality dated 23 May 2002, asking questions about the proposed additional appropriations for racial protection for Rv 651 and about the decision of the Møre and Romsdal County Council on the rescheduling and rescheduling of this racial protection project will have an effect on the possible start-up of the Rv 653 Eiksund Association. In this context, reference may also be made to the letter of the Minister for Transport of 4 June 2002, which shows that neither the advance of additional appropriations nor the opening of the Eiksund link will be affected. We are pleased with this. The Committee is aware of the existence of alternative projects for the use of continental ferries. In this respect, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, is pleased that the Government has now decided that savings in operating, maintenance and capital costs related to ferry services may be used for the sub-financing of lines that make ferries redundant. This is an important and necessary principle for those working for fixed connections along our long-distance coast. It also affects another important area, namely racial protection, where some 320 million were granted in 2002. kr for projects and actions in different areas under risk and where an increase of 50 million is now proposed. kr for this purpose, including projects in Inner Hardanger. A joint committee learns that the Railway Agency and the NSB do not see the need to move the freight terminal in Trondheim from Brattøra to Leangen, but will review the case. The majority, including the Christian People's Party, assume that such an investigation will consider both Brattøra and Leangen as a location option for freight terminals. The majority also assume that the trasé choice is fixed and that the extension is in line with this. As an Eastfold representative, I am very pleased that the proposal provides for an accelerated deployment of E6 in Eastfold, which is probably one of the most traffic-laden and damaged road sections we have in our country, with a significant number of deaths and serious accidents. The transport kitchen on this road section has been formidable for a long time, and the majority, including the Christian People's Party, are therefore satisfied that the Government is now adding to a faster four-field E6 expansion through Eastfold than previously planned, and that the aim is to have this road section completed, including Svinesund Bru, in 2009. Furthermore, it is important for me to also focus on the so-called Eastfold package phase 1, which includes the E6, E18 and tunnel solution for the Moss NSB. Adding to an improvement in the economy related to the E6, this has to be important for the maintenance of the E18, which has to come back to the 2003-2004 state budget. For Oslopackak Phases 1 and 2 and Tønsbergpakket, they are taken for information. Similarly, the majority, all except the members of the SV, assume that the continuation of Lofoten's continental link, Lofast, must be ensured, and that the Government must actively provide for clarification and progress of the project. The proposal includes a separate mention of OPS projects and E39 Handyand–Feda, the Lister package. The project being tested here has an alternative organisation of road development and operation that we hope will lead to better cost-effectiveness and innovation opportunities. Over a longer period and in different contexts, there has been a call for an improvement in the school and student rebate scheme. With regard to the arrangements for discounts on local collective transport, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Bondevik government has now invested funds to ensure that the rate of the school and student rebate scheme is 40 p.m., while the government of Stoltenberg for 2002 raised a rate in this area of 15 p.m. Finally, during the Committee's examination, issues related to the Jondal Tunnel in Hordaland have also been addressed, an important and certainly absolutely necessary project. There's a plan work going on here. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, assume that the support for this county road project does not go at the expense of allocating funds to projects in Hordaland which are prioritised in the framework of the National Transport Plan, while the Christian People's Party and the Right note that the designation of state appropriations for county roads was adopted in the framework transfers to county municipalities during the examination of the municipal economic programme for 2001. During the examination of the national transport plan 2002-2011, a clear majority agreed to establish a transitional arrangement to ensure the realisation of the remaining large county road projects. This request was not followed up by the government of Stoltenberg in the budget for 2002, whereas today’s majority refer this issue to the notified notification of the two-way network currently under consideration. In this context, reference should be made to the fact that the counties have the possibility to use pesticides for large district road projects, if the county authorities give priority to these plants. In Hordaland county, the Jondal tunnel has not been prioritised within the district-divided framework for 2002-2005. I recommend the Committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1334	A reorganization of the state road system may not have been the great heartchild of the Christian People's Party in the past. The fact that the Christian People's Party is changing its position today just has to be respected. But the fact that you also underline changing your mind by saying that you are satisfied with the reorganisation, at least makes me ask some questions. Is the Christian People's Party actually satisfied that we are in a situation where the costs of reorganization are still so uncertain? Is the Christian People’s Party satisfied that 10,000 employees in the State Road Service feel uncertain about their future? Is the Christian People's Party satisfied that there has been a breach of negotiations between the employee and the employer within the State Road Administration? In fact, the Christian People's Party is pleased that we have still not been given any clarification of the valuation and opening balance sheet, and will not have it before approx. 14 days before the new company will be operational? Is there any reason for the Christian People's Party to be satisfied with this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1341	The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have started such a substantial transformation of a significant entity, this based on the clear assumption that we want, as it has been pointed out a number of times, to get more back on the funds being inserted. It's clear that we're on our way in a process. There are many pieces that will fall into place, and I fully understand that it may seem frustrating not to have an up-to-date quote, information about what this is going to cost. But we are on the way in this matter. I also believe that with such a large and heavy organization as we're dealing with here, we can't expect everyone to be interested in this process at any time, but it's been said that they're prepared to add the goodwill to find the best possible solution. We believe that the Road Service has a capacity in itself that allows this to be an organisation and an enterprise that can definitely go into the market and be competitive. Then it's clear that opening-balance-sheet issues are of great importance, but, as the Council of State has said, it has to come at some later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1350	The representative Holten, like most from the Christian People's Party, has many promises of many fine roads. The representative Holten said that E6 should now be expanded through Østfold, and it should be completed by 2009 – a long time perspective – while the Swedes will have completed it several years earlier. Well, that's good with all these promises. We previously heard another Christian People's Party representative, Jan Sahl, who wanted Lofast. So there are ways in both buckets and buckets here. Today, there is a big article in the Evening Post that points out that the newly built four - lane E18 has really been a success. The number of deaths has been reduced annually from 2-3 to 0, the number of serious injuries has declined from 25–27 to 2-3. It shows that the best way to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic is to build new and good roads. Unfortunately, this weekend we have had more tragic accidents. This time it was on the E6 through the Gudbrand Valley, which is also one of these Ways of Death, just like E6 through Eastfold. When the Christian People's Party is the key to increased road appropriations, why won't they at least increase the appropriations for the roads where there are many accidents? Now the Road Service has begun to identify the roads where there are major, serious accidents and fatal accidents. Will not the Christian People's Party at least be involved in increasing the appropriations for these roads, so that we can reduce the large, tragic damage that is on these roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1359	The Christian People's Party must have a totality and an overall framework in the economy. We have joined the rule of action. That means we have a total framework that we have to stay within at all times. This is not a matter to which the Progress Party has committed itself, and therefore they have a greater chance of overburdening in many areas. Transport concerns a great many, and of course it affects a great many people in Eastfold. As I said in my post, I guess E6 through Eastfold is the way that has the biggest loads. I have to give honor to the Council of State who has helped to continue the thought that came from the former Council of State Odd Einar Dørum, to organize a fissure layer. In this fission of different levels of government in Eastfold, both in relation to municipalities, state and business, there has been a willingness to spend money to support this important development. I'm very happy that the effect that we get when we expand, we can now look at E6 through Westfold, where the number of injuries is reduced. As far as Eastfold is concerned, we are very pleased and pleased with the progress that is now being made on these developments. As I said, we have a totality in the economy that means that we can't do road development at the same rate with our own resources as the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1369	I'm using this opportunity, because no one else wants the last line on the representative Holten. The representative says that the Christian People's Party has an overall framework and an overall view of this. I can ask the representative Holten if he has not read what is in the evening post today, what each fatal accident and every serious accident costs. It's specified. Then he talks about spice layers in Eastfold. It is clear that the representative Holten is very concerned about exactly Eastfold, but I am more concerned about the ways in which very many are killed and injured. The state road authority has already calculated the costs of all these accidents. Since the representative Holten is concerned with the overall framework, does he not see what this costs society, not only in crowns and ears with all the damage and killings, but also in relation to suffering? Is he willing to see the overall framework in relation to this side of the case, so that the extent of these damage can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1378	Yes, the Christian People's Party is willing to see the whole thing in that context. It's repeated over and over again from the Progress Party that we're taking in x the number of billions, it's being suggested about. 40 billion kroner in various taxes and taxes on cars, and it is used approx. Ten billion, it's being claimed. But we have a slightly different calculation, because we're also calculating something that the Progress Party is not willing to include, that is, the cost of all the damage that occurs in society, both in the event of fatal accidents and in the event of severe injuries. This must also be included in the total accounts. So we have a total economy to deal with, and we have, as I said instead, bound ourselves to this whole thing of the economy. There's something that surprises me here. When the representative, Nistad, in his speech, touched on the importance of fully building a four-field motorway between Oslo and Trondheim, one must be able to ask the question: Is there a good way to spend money in relation to other heavily charged roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1385	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1388	Like others before me, the collective proposition we're debating contains a lot of individual things. In the few minutes I have in speaking time, it's only possible to get into a few of the things that are included in the proposition. Just because there's so many cases, between 20 and 30 cases, I think it's in itself critical to put them together in the same proposition. One additional factor is that there are also several major and fundamental issues that would have seemed to be presented as own matters. One of the things that should have been presented as a matter of fact is the reorganization of the state road system. I've been into it in debates before, and I still mean it, that such a big case, which struck so many, had ignited a collective and holistic presentation and handling and not, as it is now, that the case comes piece by piece and divided into several cases. It is tempting to use such strong words as that it is disrespectful to the many added to the Road Service, who experience an uncertain time in view of their future. Frustration among those who add and dissatisfaction with the procedure and information is a clear signal that the implementation of the process has not been optimal. The government's strategy of dealing with this matter has led to the fact that it has also been difficult for the Storting to get an overview and see the health of the matter. In addition, the Council of State interprets questions from the Committee so narrowly that there is reason to ask questions as to whether there has been a lack of willingness to provide sufficient information to the Storting. There are still many issues that have not been resolved by the extensive reorganization of the State Road Service, in particular by the reorganization of the production part of a limited liability company. The total cost is still very uncertain and the Council of State has also failed to provide a clear answer as to whether the cost of the reorganisation should be covered by the ordinary road budget. The proposal makes good use of the revised budget of the Aviation Agency. The demand for the services of the Aviation Agency, and hence traffic revenue, has fallen since the last autumn of the budget of the Aviation Agency. At the same time, important measures await implementation at several aerodromes. After the Central Party's vision, it was therefore absolutely necessary to have an extra 100 million. kr that the Government proposed in the revised national budget. Even with this extra promise, there is a reduction in relation to the agreed budget for 2002. It is also worth noting that, for this reason, actions that must be postponed are important measures that must be implemented as soon as the budgetary situation makes it possible. It is therefore strange that the Government Party in the agreement with the Progress Party on the revised budget proposes to reduce the air carrier’s commitment by 30 million. kr. There is reason to ask whether the government has completely forgotten the many unsolved tasks at airports, the tasks they pointed to in the revised national budget. The proposed merger also provides information on the reorganization of the Aviation Agency to limited liability companies. The centre party is opposed to this transformation. The government imposes less political governance and responsibility. For districts in particular, there is reason to ask questions about whether the share company model will safeguard the national objectives of the Aviation Agency. For many years, the Centre Party has been working to make alternative use of ferry charges. Varying on the national road network costs a lot every year. If this item is to be reduced, ferry services must be disconnected from mainland connections. Then you must be able to use the saved ferry charges as part of your funding. I am therefore very pleased that so many parties now agree to ask the government to find schemes to calculate the savings in advance and thus to include savings in the financing plan for the current project. I look forward to briefing on the experience of the scheme, as requested by the majority in the Committee. Since the responsibility for the county roads was added to the county council and the funds for county roads were put into the frame of the county council, the centre party has fought for the transitional arrangements that were promised to be implemented. Large county road systems, which were prioritised when the conversion took place, would receive state support. The county councils, which had given priority to large county road systems and which were in one way the turn to take over, would come out very unreasonably if transitional arrangements were not made. When the majority of the committee concludes that this transitional arrangement must now be terminated, I consider it obvious that the Council of State is looking for a review of the project in question. I expect the Council of State to come back soon with a plan for the implementation of the transitional arrangements. Finally, I am pleased that the proposition gives a clear signal that the annual racial protection rights should be increased. As far as racial protection is concerned, it is necessary to strengthen efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1414	The representative of Ringstad repeated some of the criticisms he made about the conversion into the State Road Service, especially in the production department. Let me say that the cost of this conversion is not related to the transformation itself into a limited liability company. The costs are almost inconclusively linked to the efficiency of the purchase of surplus capital, to the provision of proper and fair treatment to those added to the production, with facilities for retraining, retraining, early retirement or other favourable schemes. There's the cost, and that cost we have to take, because we have to take care of them properly. It has also been criticised that we do not know the ultimate cost – something called Ringstad. No, we don't know the ultimate cost of the conversion because we just don't know how competitive the production department in the state road system is yet. If the competition they are currently faced with results in many contracts, there will be little need to buy out. If they're really good, there'll be even less need for conversion tools. So simple is this context, which seems like it's hard for the bigotry to understand when it's the criticism of what's happened so far. But what we know anyway is that numbers from the Vegvesen itself show that production has to be reduced by a lot of people in order for them to be competitive. And then what I want to ask the representative Ringstad: when we know that we need to reduce, when we know that we can get a more competitive roadway, isn't it worth taking this shift? Or should we let everything scour and go as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1428	Sometimes people use an expression: people hear what they want to hear to the right. And I think that actually fits here too, because what Petter Løvik made a point of, was something that I just came into my article, and I didn't ask the big questions about. I found that we actually do not know the conversion cost, and I found that there are huge costs. But my main point when it spelled this cost, was actually to ask questions about how it should be covered in. If you want to take off the ordinary road budget, it will be quite many years before we can say that we will get more money. I have taken note of comments that make it absolutely clear that we should take care of those added. We're going to deal with them in a way that will give them a safe future even after the transition. I never asked that question, because it must be a premise. And that's the very idea that I think they've added has not been orientated about in a good enough way before. I am aware that Petter Løvik does not have the long seagoing time in the Committee on Transport, but in that committee and also in other contexts, the Centre Party, together with SV, has actually pointed to another solution as its primary proposal for an organisation of the State Road Service, an organisation that would cost less in conversion than both the divisional model and the AS model that is currently under way. But we take note that the decision has been made, and that's what the Center Party together with SV and the Workers' Party have said in the setting as well. We accept that the decision has been made, and then we make the best of those statements. But there were other points that were my main points in the post, than what Petter Løvik focused on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1439	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1442	The government has found room in the revised national budget to strengthen its efforts in several areas of transport policy. I am pleased that the Storting has joined the broad lines of our proposals for increased appropriations, and that it has done so within the framework of a budgetary agreement in which the tightness of the budget is fully maintained. The latter is very important for both Norwegian households, businesses and the public sector. The size supports the Government’s proposal to increase racial protection appropriations by 50 million. NOK, so that this year we will grant almost 400 million. kr for breed protection. The means will help to make more road sections significantly safer to operate, and not least help to remove some of the uncertainties that many people experience, including: because school transport has to pass rascal routes on a daily basis. I'm glad that the Stortinge joined the proposal for $17 million. kr extra to ensure school and student discounts in local traffic of 40 pst. from 1 August. The discount will make public transport cheaper for those with at least one route. It will also create good travel habits and thus provide the basis for future growth in public transport. Aviation is in a time of traffic decline, falling revenues and increased costs of safety measures at aerodromes. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the Aviation Agency’s budget for 2002. The agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party provides a majority for increased grants to regional airports, of 70 million. NOK, which is 30 million. kr less than the Government's original proposal. Thus, the investment budget of the Swedish Aviation Agency will be about 130 million. kr lower than the budget adopted before Christmas. This further underpins the need to make structural changes that increase the scope for economic action. Lack of willingness to take such measures is very difficult to combine with all the good wishes for increased investment at other aerodromes without placing the Aviation Agency in an unfortunate economic situation. The reduction in the investment budget may have implications for punctuality and regularity, but I assume that investments that are necessary to be made this year for security reasons are being carried out. In addition to budgetary changes, this aggregate proposal deals with a number of individual issues. I'll briefly comment on some of these. First, I would like to inform you that by letter of 28 May 2002, the Ministry has notified the airlines that the temporary State aviation insurance scheme will not be extended when it expires on 1 July, unless new unforeseen circumstances occur. I can also inform you that there is agreement between the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Defence Agency on the extension of the terminal building at Bardufoss airport within a framework of 15 million. kr. The development will, in my opinion, provide a satisfactory solution for passengers, while improving the working environment of terminal staff. I notice the majority's mention of the Jondal Tunnel. The majority assume that funding for this project will not be at the expense of other projects in Hordaland in 2003. I would like to stress that an allocation in that case must be at the expense of priority projects in other counties. I will come back to this in the 2003 budget. Finally, the reorganisation of the State Road Administration. I would like to stress that it is not the choice of organisational form for the production company that leads to downsizing and conversion costs. The costs are mainly linked to making the company cost-effective and competitive. It will provide relatively high non-recurring costs, in order to obtain lasting savings and more money for each and every financial year. The employees’ organisations have considered that it has taken too long to clarify measures and arrangements on the staff side of the new company. This process has for a period led to a worse relationship between the parties than is desirable. I am glad that the process now seems to be on the rails again. I also notice the criticism the minority comes with the way I have answered questions given by Stortingen in this matter. I stand by the fact that, to the best of my ability, I have provided the information I have always perceived that Stortinget wanted. Now I see in retrospect that one question could also be perceived in another way. I can assure you that I will do my utmost to provide the Storting with as good and relevant information as possible, both further in this matter and in all other matters the Stortinget has for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1475	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1478	Now I registered that the Council of State admitted that this reorganisation of the Road Administration might not have been so well handled, cork in relation to the Stortinget or in relation to them added, and I am pleased about that. Then we might be able to put this thing behind us. But what I want to ask the Council of State is whether the Council of State is satisfied with the procedure for this reorganisation. First we get it bit by bit, and the most important issues are to be decided weeks before Vegvesen is to become a share company and operate 100 pst. Postponed for competition. In case there is frustration attached to this – for which I have great understanding – will the Council of State do something in that case to dampen that frustration, to clarify the relationship? So to the economy of the Aviation Agency. So this is going to be plus 70 million. kr in relation to the expected deficit of 200 million. NOK – 130 million. kr less, as the Council of State said. The director of the Swedish Aviation Agency, Randi Flesland, said on a hearing here in Stortinget a little while ago, that with the 100 million they got extra, they could easily do it. What the Labour Party and I are asking for is clearer information about what this is all about. We get numbers of investments that will be postponed with the 130 million. But when it comes to the overall situation of the Aviation Agency, will the Council of State come back to the budget with a much better overview of the economic situation, consequences and measures that need to be put in place to ensure that this is properly maintained? It may be that the Storting will go further than the Government in that way. So I just want to say that when it comes to the Jondals tunnel and the completion of large county road projects, there are a number that decides today that that system should be maintained. In fact, the Council of State has to take action. On the second page of the option, if this is the case with the Jondals Tunnel, there is a comment from SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party that is due to an editorial error. That note shall be deleted. I will inform the secretary in more detail about what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1492	Then it'll be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1495	First, to the question of whether I am satisfied with the procedure. I expect this to be true in relation to the process of transformation of the state road system etc. I don't have any problems seeing that it might be desirable to have a collective proposal about it. But we have a bad tradition for that in this country. There have been major changes in companies — for example: The NSB, which was converted to BA, and the Post was converted to BA – when one also had very little time, and it was under a working party government. For example: The opening balance sheet was presented in a proposal for the size of the harvest, at the same time as the budget was presented, and the transformation took place per year. 1 December of the same year. So here we have a tradition. One might say it's not a good tradition, but we have a tradition for this. We have a process that the State Road Service also wants, and a time that is outlined. And as I see it, most employees want that time, and that's what we're working from. When it comes to employee frustration, it's a task that we all have: to help get things in place that we can get in place as early as possible. I think we're in a very good process with it now. The fact that the interim company and the board are in place means that we have come a long way further in that process. I would also like to point out what has been said about the Aviation Agency. It has been said earlier in the debate that I have not informed that security was the highest priority now because of the economy of the Aviation Agency. Then I would like to remind you of what I answered a question in the Questionnaire on 23 January this year, where I said that in the airline infrastructure plan ‘the measures are priorities that have direct safety significance and that result from regulatory requirements’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1506	I want to get fixed a principle. It goes on that the representative Starrfelt mentioned that the Jondal Tunnel had to go at the expense of other projects, where the Council of State later replied that this had to go at the expense of other projects in other counties. It is, in my opinion, on the limit of misinforming the Stortinget. I have been presiding for four years and I am quite well aware of the Rules of Procedure, and, as far as I know, there is nowhere to say that there is no opportunity to increase the framework for transport. Whether it's on the way or to the railway, it's the same thing. I'm asking the President to correct me if I'm wrong about this point. But it may be more appropriate for the Minister of Transport to come up to the pulpit to confirm that it is up to the Grand Duchy to set the budget framework at any time during the budgetary procedure. It is not such that it is decided in any way that if you spend the money in one scheme, it has to go beyond other schemes. It's up to the Storting itself to decide at any time. So it's not like the government's trying to make it. I would like confirmation that the Council of State agrees with my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1517	Of course, this government is committed to having responsible budgets. Nevertheless, I would like to be allowed to admit that the larger the travel budget we have, the happier I am. If it turns out that we have the opportunity to increase the framework in a large monn, I will of course appreciate it – provided within the framework of responsibility. It is also clear that the Storting is laying these frameworks, so it is fully possible to put in place an increased framework for transport — and also on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1522	Just to follow-up on the previous question: The size should be considered before the summer holiday also the construction of Bjørvika and the part of this project that is on the road. This is to be granted extra outside the framework of the national transport plan, so when it goes here, it will probably go elsewhere in the country as well. What I was going to ask is the reorganisation of the Aviation Agency. It has not come as a separate matter in the spring session, unlike the cases of the NSB and the Post Office. It takes longer before the assumptions are changed, as it says in the case. The economy of the aviation industry is significantly lower than anticipated. My question to the Minister of Transport is whether, given the poor and weakened economic situation of the Aviation Agency and also in view of the significant challenges facing the Swedish Aviation and Aeronautical Network in Norway in the future with regard to the new safety requirements, there is reason to see whether AS is the right form of organisation for the Aviation Agency. Will the Ministry consider whether there are alternative ways of doing this that might be a better solution for Norwegian aviation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1531	I am concerned that we should at all times have the best organisational solutions for all transport sectors in order to meet the tasks set out by the various companies. The fact that it's a bad economy itself doesn't mean that it shouldn't be an AS. But it suggests that we have to go in and look at the framework conditions given to the Aviation Agency. It is also the case that it will be up to Stortinget to look at the economic situation of the business set up to carry out the job done by the Swedish Aviation Agency at any time. Turning the Aviation Agency into an AS gives us an opportunity to go in and look at the economy, and what we have to do to have a framework that is good enough to run the business that Stortinget wants. And as I said, it's always up to the Storting to go in and do something in relation to the economic situation in the Aviation Agency. Government and growth can make decisions that we are in and buy services on the aviation side that will also contribute to changes in the framework of the Aviation Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1540	There is a comprehensive committee that supports the principle of alternative use of ferry charges. Rightly, the Progress Party has a slightly different solution than the other parties, but also the Progress Party supports the principle. I am glad that after many rounds of this over several years we have come as far as we are today. The majority in the Committee have also asked to be briefed on the cases and any experience with the scheme, such as: in connection with the 2003 budget. Finally, the majority in the Committee believe that saved ferry premiums should be included as part-financing in the current project as soon as they are ready for implementation. I hope that the Council of State has grasped the positive attitude of the Committee when it comes to alternative use of ferry services. My question to the Council of State will be: How quickly can my Council of State be able to implement the first projects with ferry fees as part-financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1551	We must now first of all get an overview of what projects are involved, and look at how we can apply these principles. I am very pleased that there is such broad support for these principles. I think there is a very clear, good socio-economic solution to a number of challenges where we have ferry traffic in Norway. We must first get an overview of which projects are involved, and then we will come back to the concrete proposals afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1565	The working party is pleased that a new training centre for the Aviation Agency is to be established in Tjeldsund, Northland. I could have imagined that the Council of State might have explained this project, when it is possible to get this set-up in place, because there have been several decisions over many years to have this set-up. That'll be one question to the Council of State. The other applies to Lofast and the progress there. A majority of the Committee asks the Government to provide the necessary clarifications in the planning process. I would therefore ask the Council of State to say something about how to follow up the majority opinion, including the view of the Council of State regarding the possibility of possibly using state instruments in the planning process to carry out this work so that it does not stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1572	I'm going to follow up the Aviation Agency's training centre in Tjeldsund in dialogue with the Aviation Agency. The airline has, as we know, a bad economy for the time being, but we insist that it is decided that this training centre should be set up, and that is what we are working on in the future. Plan clearance Lofast: I fully agree with the views that have been expressed that we should not withdraw the matter unnecessarily. Promise is no new cause. It's been going on for years. A considerable amount of work has been done up until now, and it is important that this does not stop completely. On the one hand, I am very happy that local democracy is going to work and that you have local plans. At the same time, on the other hand, long processes have been in progress. That is why we are going to consider whether it is necessary to use a government plan for just not to lose the pace of this work. State plan is not what you want primarily, because it's something we don't use so often here in the country. But if we were to run new local processes, and that would show that we are getting signals that this will take a lot of time in the future, there is absolutely reason to consider the state plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1583	That has already been said, but I allow myself to repeat the frustration one experiences, that it has taken a long time before one has received matters from the ministry to the committee in this session, and then to be overwhelmed with matters that are assumed to be dealt with in the shortest possible time. This way of doing it creates few opportunities for us to seek cooperation where the big issues can get the widest possible anchoring in Stortinget, a anchoring I think would all be served. The proposal to convert the road transport sector's production activities to AS came closest to that of a mountain during the examination of the budget last autumn. No comprehensive analysis was on the table, no one knew about the costs, and the employees were in no way prepared for such a decision. They were in a completely different process to streamline their business. After the budget decision, it was silent, but in the ministry, there was obviously a lot going on. The councils must have speed over the business like a storm wind in the belief that its stronger wind was, the better it would be. It looked like you were looking for total chaos, so that out of chaos a new harmonious order would arise – this can happen in theory, rarely in practice. The situation in the state road system today is therefore problematic. The relationship with the employees is cold. Crane is happening for the open stage. The employees experience that their top boss hassles with them and describes them as ineffective. When I comment on the situation in the State Road Service, it is not to ask for rematch. What we are concerned about is that the decision to turn the Road Administration’s production activities into AS must be handled with decency and respect for which the decision will affect. In view of the competence of employees and the loyalty shown by employees over the years by the State Road Service, they would have deserved better. Now they are forced to demonstrate outside the Storting because their employer has created insecurity for both employment and pension rights. Although it is recent, one can hope that the regret the Council of State has now sent to its employees can contribute to a more normal climate. Everyone's gonna be worth it. During the last election campaign, the current government parties flagged high their promises of school and student discounts on local collective travel, against the obvious pale offer of the Stoltenberg government. Now the end of the story was that the Workers' Party supported the proposal that the discount should be 50 pst., while the Bondevik government ended its promises by 40 pst. Someone will call it a breach of promise, and I'm not a stranger to join such a term. Now, however, the story does not end there. A commitment to a discount scheme may be accepted only if the financial contributions cover the costs of the scheme. Whether or not there is a great deal of uncertainty. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre here, in their comments on the Committee's position, said the following: ‘These members assume that the Government has thereby ensured satisfactory funding so that the discount scheme can be introduced from 1 August 2002 without the scheme entailing higher prices or lower offers for other road users.’;» To emphasize the seriousness, I would like to refer to the signal that states and municipalities now say that they might refuse to implement the 40 pst proposal, because they cannot afford to accept the offer. The grant is perceived by them to be too small – ergo will affect both students and students. So if they are to be forced to get the discount, we can risk that there are other passengers who have to pay. I would also like to remind you that the Workers' Party is still of the opinion that the discount for students and students should be 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1605	I want to start with Lofoten's mainland connection. It is a great road that goes from Svolvær to Rafftsundet, over a large bridge, Rafftsundbrua, where it takes a small turn – called the Dørum swing – and ends right in the mountain wall, where it was to be a hole and where the road would go further. It's been like this for years. Hadsel municipality wanted a tunnel below sea level and wanted the road further through Blackland. But this race is over. We have finished that discussion, because we have made a decision in this matter. We now see that the process has stopped eight months ago, because the municipality of Hadsel has not made the necessary regulatory changes that are about to take place. I do not want to say that this is a sabotage from the local government in Hadsel, but it is very similar. I have to say, I'm glad that the Council of State is now adding up to assess a government plan. It's just to hope that this assessment doesn't also take eight months, but that you get started. So over to this with alternative use of ferry supplements. That's where something we call an incursion crept in. The party of progress is out of the main comment – as the only party. Of course we should be in the main comment. Our extra note is just an reinforcement of the main comment. With regard to the transformation of the Aviation Agency into AS, it opens up greater opportunities for, inter alia: can settle loans so that investments can be made at profitable airports, such as the Sun, in a faster and more efficient way. The same will apply to the churches, which are also prioritised from our side. It is also good to see that a new training centre in Tjeldsund is now being set up. It is clear that there are some members of the Aviation Agency who do not fully agree with Storting’s decision to set up this fire and rescue training centre in Teldensund. So the conclusion I had about postponing decisions in Hadsel and Lofoten is very similar here as well. But I am glad that the committee has decided that this will be implemented and that it will be done independently of the future corporate structure. So for the conversion of the Vegvesen: the representative Nistad took in the right assessments in the national transport plan, where they were to spend an extra 10 billion kroner, and pointed to a massive efficiency gain in the transformation of the Vegvesen into a limited liability company. Then the right was in opposition. Now, when the right is in position, on the other hand, it's going to be 255 million. kr less on the way. It's suspicious! I think the Right should stand by its promises, far more than they do in this case. The Holten talked about that the Progress Party claims that we take in approx. 40 billion kroner in road taxes, and that it is used approx. 10 billion dollars to go. There is nothing that the Progress Party has claimed; I have read in the big documents that this is about number. And then Holten was helpful in telling the assembly that the majority took something that obviously didn't happen to the Progress Party, and that was about the traffic damage, which was a significant burden in the budgets. I do not know if the representative Holten has been at home and paid his insurance in recent years. But if he had, he might have taken the time to read where it says that an additional traffic damage charge must be paid through the insurance to the state. To the state! So who has misunderstood this situation, I shouldn't say. But I would argue that the Progress Party is once again right. Finally, I would like to say that I have noticed the posts of the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt, in which she clearly concludes the toll projects that the majority wants and to which the municipalities say no. It will, of course, be the law of the Workers' Party and of the Ausdal Starrfelt. In this connection, I would like to inform you that the municipality of Halden has on several occasions gone against the toll financing of the four-field road and bridge over Svinesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1626	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1629	I'm going to talk a little bit locally today, because that's the absolute reason. In West Agder, today there is reason to open the champagne bottles – if not the large four-field champagne bottles, we have every reason to ‘get a little one’. The list package included in this treatment has been a long and difficult way to go – not to say running. That's why we're happy to see that it's going to be a great deal to repair the road west of West Agder County. Work on the Lister plan has previously been dealt with in staging messages and in national transport plans, and now also as a OPS project. Of course, I'm aware that someone as a politician is going to try to boast the most, and I think that if it hadn't been for the Workers' Party's preliminary work here, the government wouldn't have had the Lister package on the map today. But I think one day like this, we won't try to take credit for one thing or another. We should be glad that the developments that are now coming are coming. The list package will come in part of the industrial-based state, which today shows that it is deportation from this part of the region. This route will lead to a common housing and labour market, all of which will be served and which will generate new growth in this part of the county. In the same part, there's an airport. I'm going to come back to this in later debates, and I've been up to it before: we also have to do something about this, in this region. Another thing that I would like to comment on is what has been put in regarding the alternative use of ferry allowances. It seems a little bit, to say the public, hole in your head if it's supposed to be so that you can't move the ferry fee from operation on ferries to investment on the road. It's something the big community will earn. Hidra Landfast is here a concrete example of the fact that it will both benefit the big community to move the money, and that it will serve the community to the maximum extent, both in terms of living and in terms of economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1640	I also allow myself to be a little local, and I have to say that it is with great satisfaction that I read the comments of the project Tønsbergpacken on page 10 of the committee setting. The Tønsberg package, or Roadpacket Tønsberg, which has been the local name, is the result of local will and action to solve major and growing traffic problems in the Tønsberg district. The package is also the result of an almost 30-year-long local work to create a better traffic system in and around Tønsberg, and the package has been developed in close cooperation between Tjøme, Nøtterøy and Tønsberg municipalities, Vestfold County Council and the State Road Administration, and with good input from local business. Courageous local politicians in the three municipalities concerned have shown that they dare to cut through a long debate. The fact that there is some reluctance to bomb financing is not specific for this project, but the disadvantages will be more than offset by the traffic and environmental benefits of the planned deployment of the road network in a highly growthable area. It is not correct, as SV writes in his remark, that this project does not have satisfactory solutions for public transport. In fact, the preliminary collective action plans contained in the Tønsberg package are very promising and offensive, and will be a good addition to what has previously been laid down in the Tønsberg district. The orientation of the Ministry of Transport tells us that the Tønsberg package is now on track. The city council in Tønsberg adopted on 8 May this year the final regulation of Ringvei Nord, what is in the position called Rv 311 Ringvei East-West. These plans are now subject to external quality assurance, and thus Stortingen will be able to bring this matter under consideration later this year. It will again be the clear signal for the launch of the very extensive planning and impact assessment work ahead of the rest of this large project. Locally, there are also hopes that a slightly higher government share of the project could be possible than the 4.8 pst. which has been mentioned so far, but we get back to that when the Storting gets this case to the autumn. Today we can rejoice that Veigpakket Tønsberg is now being notified ready for treatment, with subsequent implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1649	In the merger proposition, a separate case has been raised about the Jondal Tunnel in Hordaland. This tunnel has served as a top priority in the list of county road projects in Hordaland, with Røjre’s support. That's because it represents an important diagonal connection in the state, like, for example, also provide an important link to a future ferries-free coastal route. Therefore, it is not disgust from the Right that is why we are not in the current remark from the majority, which is made by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party. Right has always been a driver of major and important road projects in Hordaland, and still is. The problem in this case is that the majority in question settles bill without a host. And why do they do that? I'll mention three reasons for that. You don't say where to take this money from. What you're saying is, it's not going to be at the expense of other projects in Hordaland. Who should then give up these approx. Fifty million? Matz Sandman once said it elegantly: outside the frames it's just a black hole. In addition, there has been an explicit premise in this house that zoning should be distributed in line with the opinion of the State concerned. Shouldn't Hordaland state such a priority? In addition, there is reason to recall that the old state grant scheme for county road projects was 50-50, later reduced to 40-60. Today's proposal involves 15-85. Has the county been given an opinion on this distribution? Or is it how I can be tempted to believe that some in this majority have other motives in this matter? It is no secret that Hordaland county has prioritised Hardangerbrua at the top of national road projects, as a very important project both east-west and north-south in the county. Here, too, there is great local participation on the economic side of the project. I'm afraid that the bulk of this decision today is creating uncertainty about this project in Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1658	Finally, I would say that after today they should be very happy in Hordaland, because they have received support for what the county council wants, simply to have two parallel systems, a national road system and a transitional system for large county road projects. I shouldn't be surprised if the last speaker is quite happy that the majority today instructed the Council of State to bring back money for this. I'll follow in what he says locally. Then I will come back to the comment that was wrong in the setting. On page 14, second column, third paragraph, there is a comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party that is going out. It's partly incorporated in a plural commentary, partly it's a little contradictory, so it should look something like that. So a few comments at the end. After the Council of State explained this with the information obligation of Stortinget, I regret that I feel the need once to say that it is not that a Council of State should only answer questions. A government council will ensure that a case is fully informed when it comes to Stortinget, and the government council has particular responsibility when it comes to matters from the Government to the Stortinget. The information in question shall be of such good quality that it is not really necessary, theoretically and in practice, to ask any questions. No one can say whether the matter we have debated today. I therefore hope that the Council of State will take into account that it actually has an active obligation to provide information to Stortinget. It goes far beyond answering questions. We have never criticized that it costs to change in and separately, we have criticised that the number did not show up. We believe that the number is slightly higher with a share company model than with a divisional model. The advantage of the division model was for the first time that they were added to layers, and they could only continue with a process that was in progress. New items were broken and had to be added to the process. The other difference is that the new government proposed 100 pst. the first day of the contest, not 70. I think that will lead to a number of superlatives, several early retirements, and this could quickly lead to fewer tasks. So I'm going to comment on what the committee leader said, luckily, there's a minority that criticizes. After today's debate, there are actually a number of critics in this Chamber. In any case, I thought that Thore A. Nistad from the Progress Party was quite crazed in his criticism. That being said, we have to come through 20 singles in an afternoon. It's not so bad, but I hope we don't get this kind of treatment for so many things in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1675	Let it be allowed by the President to say that the President thinks it is nice to see the representative Røtvej here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1678	Yes, good President, the temptation was too great. In today's debate, in the process of separating production from the state road system, we have heard the words that have gradually become slogans: 'efficiency, more money'. And I started thinking – will there be more for the money? We can do a thought experiment: will the wage costs for people who are now being overwhelming be passed on in the coming years, in the state budget and added to the investment budget? That's what it's all about, if there's going to be more way for the money from the framework that's here. And what does the president think will be the answer? I am convinced that this money will disappear from the budget of the Ministry of Transport. The representative Nistad did not really give a clear answer to the question: what will the Progress Party do in the further process of this production company? In the context of the national transport plan, both the Right and the Advance Party are clear: First a public limited company, then it has to be privatised. And I think the other government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have to deal with that. I also believe that the separation of production leads to more jobs in the State Road Administration, not least in order to strengthen the building owner's competence. If the state is to be a capable builder, the building developer's competence must be strengthened in the authority section, and then a trick can be played on this efficiency gain mentioned by the government parties and the Progress Party. I think you can forget it. The question can also be asked: is it necessary to destroy such a good blending operation as we have had in Norway to this day, with public and private, where both parties have been in a way a price correction in the market? I believe that with the strategy that is now being put forward, we will have a private monopoly on the road in a few years' time, with Swedish states, and then I fear that there will be less money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1689	The government will have more way for the money. That's why we have to take some organizational steps, and, almost a line to the last speaker, there's nothing other than the market that can tell if the resources we put into an area are properly dimensioned in relation to the results we get out. It's only the market that can answer us, and it's the simple fact that the government parties stick to, just to make our taxpayers get the most meters of way for each individual invested weakness. Then it is obvious that in the debate on the amounts – what it costs to reorganize – it is a strange dualism. On the one hand, you get almost criticism that you spend too much money on the reorganisation, and then the same parties accuse the government of not treating their employees properly. It's with respect to report a strange dualism. It is precisely to treat their employees properly that this will cost money. In addition, I have to be allowed to point out that it will be important to put out the piece of competition to see if the money we have put into the Road Service for many years will give the right result. It is clearly a slowing down in efficiency when we have to go out with so much money to compete with the Road Service. Here's a aftermath that we have to take in again. But not least, we need to ensure that the human resources are properly staffed. The government has done that. And now when you accuse the Minister for Transport of almost complaining that she has not treated the employees properly – that's not what she says. She regrets that it was perceived that she should have criticized the employees of Vegvesenet. On the contrary, the Government has always been very responsive to the demands — and the very natural requirements — that employees have on proper treatment when we are going to take such a big and profound step as this is the case. I believe that this is the only right grip and the only guarantee we have that so much money will be used properly. We want more excavators, we want more bulldozers, and we want less administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1702	I have to say, I'm a little surprised. Now the representative Ola Røtweg is also beginning to lose faith in many of the employees in the Road Administration. In the past, we have heard that in both hearings and debates, the Council of State has said that there is little efficiency in the Road Administration. I don't share the negative belief in many of the employees. Many of the employees in the Road Service are actually skilled in tunnel production and are skilled in asphalting. What we want to do with a production company is that we want it to be an ordinary share company, and it's going to compete in line with other Norwegian entrepreneurs when it comes to building roads, bridges and tunnels. I don't share the huge negative here, that these should sit completely without getting a single project on offer. So there's another side to this case. It is clear that if we are going to follow the Workers' Party and just add crumbs for road construction, I might realize that the Road Service will not sit on a single project, and that everyone is standing on the street. And that's how it's going to end soon, it's going to continue like today. However, with the appropriations entered in the National Transport Plan by the Progress Party, we will actually increase road development by about a quarter. DKK 5 billion per year. years, and then there must be enough work for the new production company, which is to be a normal limited liability company. There must be enough work for all the Norwegian entrepreneurs who are currently available. Today we have a free machine park for approx. 400 million. kr, which only stands there and rusts and has nothing to do. There's a couple of thousand men who don't have work. And in addition to putting in all this to build a road, we've recognized that, well, we have to go abroad to pick up contractors. Then there will also be speed in the Norwegian road standard. So I do not share the negativeness of the representative at all, nor of the Council of State – she has also been quite critical of the employees of the Road Administration. I'm going to admit that there might be a lot of people at the top of the Road Service, in the administration, there's a little bit too many county divisions, etc. I can see that, but those who sit on the machine park, and those who are on the floor in Vegvesen, are not as bad as the representative Røtvej, the councillor and others think they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1713	This could almost have been an invitation to a lecture. But to be very brief: the market has no social conscience. Therefore, the market alone can never guide or guide us to understand what is the right price of a job. But the market is an important player with the public sector. And we have experience with – both historical and geographical – that in this interaction between public and private, you have a private actor who has the competence to assess how things can work and you have a market that has a different motive for its activity than the public. So in this interaction, you can develop possibilities to figure out what's the right price. That's how we know it works. This is probably how it will work in the future as well. And then you should be careful and not blow up and let yourself be dazzled by the illusions and then risk taking crazy decisions, or literally end up on wild roads. The employees don't go around and perceive; they meet reality. I think we should take inwards that there are thousands of employees in the State Road Service who say: We feel insecure – we feel insecure for work, we feel insecure for the future, we feel insecure for pensions. This is no theoretical speculation. This is an actual relationship for the employees, and so serious that the employees’ organisations break contact with the employer’s side. Then we won't roll over it, but we'll take it seriously. The employees require respect, and the employees require security. But first of all, they're not asking for any pay back, they're asking for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11.ana.ud1948e1723	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. [[See page 3038]] New meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
