ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e42	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, it is proposed that up to five lines of response be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who subscribe to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e51	Odelstinget treats today Innst. O. No 45 for 2001-2002, cf. Ot. pp. No 28 for 2001-2002 on the Law on the Protection of Fire, Explosion and Accidents with Hazardous Substances and on the Fire Service’s Rescue Tasks and on Changes to the Working Environment Act. In this odelstingsproposition, the Ministry of Labour and Administration promotes proposals for a completely new law on fire and explosion protection. The purpose of the law is to protect life, health and the environment against accidents involving fire, explosion or accidents involving the transport of dangerous goods. The law applies to general obligations to prevent fire and explosion, as well as to central and local organisation and implementation of such prevention. The law also applies to all handling and transport of dangerous goods on land, as well as to emergency preparedness and response requirements for which the fire service has a duty of effort. The new law is a framework law which can be supplemented by regulations in the respective areas covered by the law. The new law shall replace the three applicable laws in the field of fire and explosion protection. The three laws thus repealed when the new law enters into force are as follows: Act of 21 May 1971 No. 47 concerning flammable goods, liquids and gases under pressure laws of 14 June 1974 No. 39 on the Law on Explosives of 5 June 1987 No 26 on fire protection, etc. Furthermore, some amendments are made to the Law of 4 February 1977 No. 4 on the protection of workers and the working environment, etc. It is essentially a joint municipal committee which endorses the legislative proposal under consideration at the Innst. O. No 45 for 2001-2002. The Committee considers the proposed coordination of existing laws to be a strengthening and possibility of more efficient and correct use of resources in preventing and limiting the scope of the proposed legislation. The Committee also considers that the proposal for a new law in this area represents an improvement in efficiency and simplification of the existing legislation. Norway has for many years represented at or very close to the top of international fire damage statistics. The reason for this seems to be difficult to find any clear and unambiguous explanation, and despite considerable public and private efforts over several years to limit the number of fires and fire damage in Norway, Norway remains stablely high on international fire damage statistics. Laws and rules in this area include, inter alia: for these reasons, extensive audits have been carried out in recent years as part of efforts to achieve a more effective response to the fire prevention and fire-reduction work at national level. It is a very thorough legislative process that is behind the proposal for a new fire law that we are dealing with here today. As early as 1994, a preliminary project under the auspices of the Directorate for Fire and Explosive Protection, now the Directorate for Fire and Electricity Safety, concluded that the three applicable laws in the fire and explosion field had to be revised. In 1996, a wide-ranging selection of representatives from, among others, KS, LO, NHO, Departments and Directorates set up with the mandate to propose a completely new law under the pre-project of the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection. This sample’s submission was then delivered in December 1998 and sent to more than 100 central hearing bodies at the hearing. Following the consultation round, it was found that there was a broad consensus on the statutory audit and its content, although certain changes were made by the Ministry in relation to the classification of the sample as a result of the extensive consultation round. Risk analysis and internal control, according to the new law, should be central to future preparedness and security planning. In addition, risk-based supervision is intended to provide more efficient use of supervisory resources by allowing supervisory authorities to prioritise increased efforts where the risk of accidents is greatest. To the extent that it is this one in the Committee, I will mention that it is only the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party that will allow an independent third-party body to exercise supervision on behalf of the Directorate. The same parties also believe that municipalities should be free to choose who will operate the local fire service, whether public or private. I also refer to the content of the proposal and the setting in its entirety, where a large number of areas have been explained in detail, which it will take too long for the rapporteur to review in this far too short article. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendations for legislation and proposals for decisions included in the resolution, and hope that the Department and the Committee have made a good contribution to the important work of bringing down the number of fires and accidents in Norway in the future, so that we can achieve the objectives set out in St.meld. No 41 for 2000-2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e97	The Labour Party is positive in bringing together today's three laws to simplify the law, so that the transport of dangerous goods and major accidents is anchored in the laws. In general, the Workers' Party is united in its content, but at some points we have a different view than the Government. I'm going to do the right thing here for our view of these areas. In the case of the fire service, it is important that this remains a municipal responsibility. Where municipalities become too small, an active incentive for inter-municipal cooperation should be provided. The role of public oversight must not be weakened. Therefore, the Workers' Party will not support the removal of the supervisory functions of private consultants. This gives us a reason why one of them sees a danger in a difficult way. If e.g. a consultancy firm engaged in fire technical consultations and risk analysis may risk having their own work supervised in the next round. In our opinion, this is unfortunate, even if it is taken in height to impose strict standards of competence and stability. The working party does not wish to restrict the current law and accepts that emergency tasks can be left to permanent, established emergency organisations in the fields of defence, industrial protection, aerodromes, etc. – in other words, in accordance with current practice. The Labour Party wants this interpretation to be applied according to Section 9 of the Act. When it comes to systematic work on health, the environment and security, I am pleased that this is laid down in the laws and not just by regulations. I would also like to point out that if this is to have any effect, the area must be strengthened, i.e. different control measures must be followed up in order to detect illegal activities and to ensure that they are severely reduced. What surprises me is that the fire-technical requirements for buildings and operations where there are live animals are far weaker than the requirements for building to deal with slaughter, i.e. dead animals. In other words, there is a distinction between living and dead animals. This is why a consensus committee calls on the Government to assess this as quickly as possible and, where appropriate, to promote action in this area. The draft law provides for a adaptation to the local authorities when it concerns the establishment and operation of the fire service. In this way, it has been suggested that the fire director should fall away as a special status. This is not the end of the Working Party. We believe that this position, which should be the top administrative manager, should not be part of the usual municipal leadership group under the head of administration of the municipality. A delegation would be both bureaucratic and complicated. Here one should also be aware of the problem settings related to the stability question. I am thinking here that the head of administration and the political leadership of the municipality manage municipal buildings and facilities. One may conflict with the laws when one is the owner and at the same time is the law manager. In other words, if one removes the special status as a fireman, there may be a danger that the roles may be mixed. When it comes to introducing additional fees and charges for local public oversight tasks, the Labour Party does not find it advisable to introduce them now. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Workers' Party will vote against the third paragraph of Section 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e120	The rapporteur, Torbjørn Andersen, explained the position of the Committee, and since it is a largely collective committee that is behind this matter, I shall only brief you on a few points where the Right and Christian People's Party have their own comments. One point is fire in relation to nursing homes. There, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will state that the revision of the regulations in 1997 did not in itself entail changes to the provisions on nursing homes. It is stated in the instructions for use: ‘In the case of nursing homes, where it is assumed to be a home for highly nursing persons, it may be necessary to place them in grade 6.’;» So today, building requirements are in line with the requirements of nursing institutions. Today, the fire service has both the right and the obligation to impose corrective fire safety measures so that the dwellings become fire safety-friendly. In this context, it seems somewhat surprising that a majority of the Committee will eliminate discretion and thus impose increased expenditure on municipalities. The second point I want to draw out is the fireman's position. In the case of fire control as a special status, this has to do with local self-government. The municipal law makes it very clear that it is up to the municipality itself to decide on the organisation of the municipality and who will hold the various positions in the municipality. These leaders have been used as the basis for guidelines on state legislation targeting municipalities. In the area of fire and explosion protection, we should balance the principles of the municipal law with the need to provide government leadership to ensure a certain minimum level of safety and preparedness for the population in the event of a fire. It does not seem right to remove the requirements for qualifications in the case of the fire department manager and the response personnel, but we see it as unnecessary that the fire command position as a special status be continued. Municipalities must delegate to the competent authority, irrespective of whether it is a fire chief or a qualified fire department head. The law imposes on municipalities the obligation of record-keeping in relation to supervision, and the delegation of adequate powers is an essential element of such supervision. Nor does it seem logical to allow private fire protection, but nevertheless require the municipality to have a fire manager in a traditional sense. We want to open up private fire protection, and we want to release the municipalities. In this case, the majority of the Committee on these points seems to be overstepping the municipalities with state-level detailed management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e142	In general, SV agrees with the existing setting. On some points, we disagree, and there our views are broadly similar to those of the Workers' Party – so I want to focus on a few points where there is some disagreement. In this case, as in the previous case we discussed in Stortinget, SV has stressed that there must be sufficient control and supervision in relation to compliance with legislation and regulations. It is particularly important in these areas, because the effect of a lack of fire safety is disastrous. The prevention of fire also involves increasing the risk of being caught in illegalities. Then there are many more who follow the actual legislation, and fire is avoided. So the point of securing nursing homes. It is unfortunately a reality that many of these nursing homes do not have sufficient fire protection. What we know is that such dwellings are inhabited by people who have different physical assumptions — most of them have less physical assumptions — in order to cope with an acute crisis situation in a fire, both in terms of orientation, and in terms of getting out of their own way. SV has therefore been among those who have wanted to ‘remove the senses’, as the Right says, and take the most account of fire safety, as we do in all other situations. We believe it is unacceptable that we should take a higher risk compared to older people living in nursing homes built before 1997, than we do with those living in new homes. We know that here, to put it like that, there is an objective basis for the fire service to go in, but in reality there are several of these dwellings that, in our view, do not have sufficient fire protection. In the case of operational buildings where live animals are present, SV is very happy that the initiative we took to focus on this has been followed up by a unanimous committee. It is a paradox that this is how, as the Upbeøn Hansen said, there is more fire safety for the animals that have been slaughtered than for the animals that actually live – in that connection, unfortunately, we are constantly hearing about large animals. It is one of the major problems we have in the country in terms of animal protection and animal welfare and health. So to those points where there's more fundamental disagreement about the law itself. This concerns the possibility of outsourcing supervision tasks, and also the operation of fire protection, to private persons. SV has a fundamental view here: we don't want this privatisation. It also has some practical reasons, because we believe that if you want to prevent a fire from occurring, and turn it off quickly, it is an advantage to have close cooperation between those on guard and those on fire surveillance. In addition, flexible forms of organisation are important to enable watchmen to carry out fire inspection during periods and vice versa. Such exchanges provide firefighters with a better and wider background of experience and enhance their competence. A municipal preparedness and a private fire view will make such cooperation and such a strengthening of competence as we believe is important. Strengthening fire preparedness and prevention is of the opinion that it is important. The development of an ever-increasing level of fire and emergency preparedness is best achieved in cooperation between political authorities, employees and residents of each municipality. Privatisation, in our view, will result in the pulverisation of the responsibility for fire safety. So how to relate to the specific legal text. In an exchange of letters with the Ministry, we have not been able to come up with any legal text that can maintain our views in a good way – one should not complain too much, but in this particular case, the answers that we should get to the committee have been rather slow to get help in this regard. That's why we now find it right to clarify what we mean by our resistance to privatisation, and also choose to mark it by voting against the third paragraph of Section 31. It is not to indicate that, in principle, there is a desire to remove all opportunities to cooperate with others, for example. The defence, industrial protection and airfields, but it's simply because we haven't received a proposal for a legal text from the department that covers what we actually mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e159	There is too much burning in Norway. The new Fire, Explosion and Hazardous Substance Protection Act is therefore important. In the North Sea petroleum industry, as the Stortinge has discussed earlier today, zero philosophy is the current idea – the idea is that accidents do not happen, they are chosen. I hope that the coordination and simplification that will result from this matter will be a step in the right direction so that damage and tragedy can be reduced. The government gets – as usual – multiple for its priorities, but a bit of that is to be said. The Committee asks the Government of the Republic of South Africa to ensure that the responsibilities and regulations laid down in the Working Environment Act are not contradictory. Norsk Brannbefals Association simply believes that emergency law conflicts with various protective rules. I would like to stress that an emergency is an emergency, and then one can do it, usually more fortunately, and so it still has to be. But that one removes such contradictions is important. The law provides for the development of risk analyses, and it is important that they are built on a common and appropriate template, so as to achieve a similar risk assessment in the country. Fire often means both an economic and an emotional disaster. That's why it's what it's supposed to be when each and every one of them are obliged to provide assistance when it's required. The entire committee points out, in two different comments, that care facilities where it is used for care must have satisfactory fire safety. Equal risk assessment is very important in this way too, so that a true image of what happens out there is actually shown. But I believe that the fire service has the necessary travel equipment and seriously assume that they are responsible for housing being satisfactory security, especially when it carries people who do not have the full ability to move in these dwellings. The Committee takes the view that live animals shall have fire safety at least in line with animals for slaughter. Actually, there is a strange defect in the law that is being detected here, and it should be corrected. A majority in Stortinget supports the proposal to open the Fire and Electricity Directorate to use an independent third-party body to exercise supervision on its behalf. Of course, it shall be subject to strict requirements of competence and of flexibility. But it applies regardless of whether the supervision is private or public. Finally, there is a comprehensive committee that says no to additional fees and fees now. There is, like, no climate for more fees for the time being, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e174	The centre party mainly supports the proposals put forward. Case Spokesperson Torbjørn Andersen has done well for the extensive work that has taken place prior to the new law on fire, explosion and accidents with dangerous substances and on the fire services' rescue tasks. Some comments from the Center Party page. First, how should fire protection be organised locally? We believe that fire protection at local level should be the responsibility of administration, administration, authority, prevention and fire and explosion protection. It should be a public problem. In contrast, we are going against a change in the law that simplifies the deletion of fire protection tasks to private enterprises. I have to add that, in several municipalities today, there is close cooperation between the internal fire service and the municipality and between public authorities, for example. Defence and the Aviation Agency. We would like to continue that, and we believe it also speaks for the municipalities to continue to be responsible. We in the Center Party are for intermunicipal cooperation in many areas, including this. There are questions whether municipalities should still have their own fire chief. I understand that one in that area can ask the question of whether it is to intervene in the local authorities' own affairs and the local authorities' own organisation to stick to it. In such a clear and important area, where it is important at any time to know who the responsibility is, who the authority is, we go in for the municipalities to still have their own fire commander. We want today's organisational structure continued when it comes to supervision. DBE is the state professional authority, and local authorities have overseen local supervision. We disagree, however, that an independent third party body should be able to supervise DBE's behalf. We want older people, relatives, locals and residents to be aware of security in relation to care establishments whether they are built before or after 1997. We understand that when we make a majority decision today in relation to the municipalities securing the care buildings built before 1997, we must also be conscious and follow up with the necessary means. During the hearings in the committee, the focus was on, among other things, fire risk and the frequency of fires occurring in operational buildings. Now there is a collection of committees that go in for the government to submit ‘an assessment of proposals for measures and any legislative changes necessary to ensure the safety of live domestic animals in the fire at least in line with the establishments handling the animals as slaughtered’; The centre party is on it in the committee. However, I would like to highlight the positive work being done in agriculture itself for the time being. A fire-protection committee — an association of fire-protection and agricultural organisations, governmental agencies and insurance companies — has been set up and designated in 2002 as the year for the protection of fires in agriculture. There is a strong increase in fire safety measures in place and a marked decrease in the number of agricultural fires and losses of livestock. It is said that demand e.g. after fire protection systems is much larger than the installation capacity. I think it is important to ask the Council of State to include in its assessment of the action to be taken, that it is actually in agriculture itself taking important initiatives now in 2002, which will be continued in 2003. And then finally, I have to report from the Center Party's side that we're going to vote against the third paragraph of Section 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e208	The proposal for a new law brings together three laws to one law, on the protection against fire, explosion and accidents involving dangerous substances and on the fire services’ rescue tasks, and will result in a severe reduction in the number of regulations. We see it as more modern, appropriate and user-friendly legislation in the field of fire and explosion protection. We are pleased that, in its position, the Municipal Committee is in line with the proposals and principles laid down in the proposal and that it recommends that the law be adopted by Odelstinget. I also note that the Committee recommends to the Stortinget to ask the Government as soon as possible and, at the latest, in the 2003 budget proposal, to present an assessment of proposals for measures to ensure the protection of livestock against fire in line with the establishments handling the animals as slaughtered. It was just supposed to be missing. I am concerned with the fire safety of animal husbandry. There is a background for a specific effort to be made in this area during the current year in cooperation between the central authorities and other stakeholders concerned. As the Committee itself points out, and as the last speaker also mentioned, 2002 has been launched as the year of agricultural fire protection. Activities include information, seminars and much more. In the context of the established cooperation between the Directorate for Fire and Electricity Safety and the State Building Technical Unit, we also look at the need for further strengthening of the building and fire technical requirements for agricultural buildings. We are therefore already in the process of taking action and assessing possible legislative intensifications, and I will come back to this, as the Committee asks, at the latest, in the context of the 2003 budget. I record the concerns of the Swedish Confederation of Norsk Brannbefal regarding situations in which the emergency law may conflict with the different protection rules of the Labour Environment Act and the internal control regulation, and that the legal consequences are unclear, even though I initially share the view of Apelthun Sæles that the emergency law must prevail. I will assess this issue and report to Stortinget in an appropriate way. I note that the Committee considers that regulations and, where appropriate, guidance should be drawn up specifying the criteria for a proper risk assessment. The Committee takes up a problem which concerns many, namely the fire safety of nursing homes, health institutions, etc. This is a problem that also concerns me and the Government as a whole. It is therefore gratifying to say that there is interministerial cooperation in order to ensure the focus on this user group, which is very vulnerable if a fire occurs. The work this group is doing is of itself important. In this context, it would also be natural to review the legislation and the practice of the legislation. In its examination of the draft new law, the Committee has also discussed the responsibility of the municipality for the fire service. It is, and will continue to be, a municipal responsibility to ensure that the inhabitants have a functioning and competent fire service. This is not to say that the municipality is the only one able to operate the fire service in terms of preventive and emergency tasks. Several municipalities have solved their responsibilities under the law, including: inter-municipal cooperation or by decommissioning the preparedness tasks of an established preparedness organisation. The industrial fire at Raufoss is one example of this. Both the possibilities and the continued formal responsibility of the municipality are made clear in the new legal text. Regardless of the person responsible for the day-to-day operation, the fire service shall have a competent crew and a competent management. However, I have not considered it necessary to maintain fire control as a special position. It follows primarily from principles of municipal governance that we want as few specific legislative positions as possible to strengthen municipal autonomy. But the competence of the fire commander per year. today, should not be degraded. It is clear from the law that the fire brigades shall have the necessary competence to hold the various types of posts. There is nothing in the way of calling the head of the fire department ‘Fire Chief’. However, whatever its title, it will depend on having sufficient power delegated to it. Following the submission to the Stortinget of the Odelstingsproposition, the Ministry of Finance has decided to review all State charging and charging schemes. I therefore agree with the Committee that it is not appropriate to impose additional fees and charges in relation to what is in the law today. Since the Ministry of Finance has notified a fundamental review of fees and charges, I can agree that this issue should be reconsidered when the review is completed. Finally, the law with the underlying regulations is intended to enter into force on 1 July of this year. In the case of Svalbard, the entry into force of the Act must be deferred. This includes, inter alia: in the interests of adequate quality assurance of the regulatory framework which shall also apply to foreign settlements. For Svalbard, the applicable Fire Codes are governed by the Svalbard Act, the Fire Goods Act and the Explosives Act. For Svalbard, this legislation will be repealed at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e238	With regard to what the Council of State said about fire control as a special legislative position, it is such that a majority in the Committee has stated that it will retain what we have today in that area. Then I would like to ask the Council of State whether he will take into account the majority comments that are in the vote and that the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are behind. That's exactly what I think he should do. It has been a matter of competent management, and it has been said that local self-government is important. But Opbebøen Hansen presented a part of the vision we have in that area, and the question is whether the Council of State will take into account – and he should do so – what the majority expresses in its comment on exactly this with the firemanship as a special status.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e243	Without having particularly long experience in this area, I think I would stress that I have always understood it so that clear opinions from a majority in the Grand Duchy make it reasonable for both governments and governments to take into account. On the other hand, it is probably also true that until the Storting has expressed a clear opinion, it is good for governments to express their views on issues in the debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e248	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e258	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e757	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will go against the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e1009	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e1018	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e1124	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e1133	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07-lower-2.ana.ud2215e1144	C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
