ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e17	The representatives Finn Martin Vallersnes and Brother Yngve Rahm, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The representative, Inge Ryan, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e28	I will, on behalf of Heidi Grande Røys, Geir-Ketil Hansen, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself put forward a proposal for recruitment in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e33	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e36	On behalf of Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal to abolish the regulation of forest property in the law on the acquisition of real estate. [[Concession Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e41	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e55	One year ago, the newly elected Stortinget met in a situation of apprehension and grief over the terrorist acts of 11 September. In the autumn – a year later – we can see that terrorist training camps in Afghanistan have been badly destroyed. The repressive Taliban regime has been overthrown. A stable security situation is now essential in order to consolidate the position of the new civil board. Therefore, Norway contributes to the ISAF strengths to increase safety in Kabul. That is why we are taking part in the ‘True Freedom’ operation, both to combat terrorism internationally and to strengthen national security in Afghanistan. In the long run, however, the fight against terrorism and regional conflicts must be directed primarily towards non-military instruments: When extremists play on distrust and frustration, on fear of other cultures, on ethnic and religious contradictions, then our response must be the will for dialogue and efforts to increase mutual understanding through contact and cooperation. When well-appointed fanatics play on the despair of the poor, we must respond with a will for economic cooperation, trade and assistance, which gives hope for a better future. Norway's front role in international aid is an expression of this.When the past abuse or existing injustices reinvigorate the warfire, we must join in and extinguish it with vigorous efforts for human rights, democracy, peace and reconciliation. Norway's peace efforts in e.g. The Middle East, in Guatemala, in Africa — and in these days in Sri Lanka — are examples of this. The greatest challenge of our time is the bottomless poverty in which large parts of the world's population live. For this reason, the Co-operation Board has proposed a sharp increase of almost 900 million in assistance in the context of tight budgetary frameworks. NOK to now NOK 14.4 billion. I am proud to lead a government that fights for those who suffer the most, for the poor and for the persecuted. The Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development dealt with themes that are crucial for the entire future of the globe. It is true that if the environment is destroyed and poverty is spreading, we have no future. The result of the meeting would be better, but I am pleased that we have achieved improvements. I would like to emphasise the objective that poor people's demands for clean water and better sanitation are strengthened, the reduction of health-threatening chemicals and the preservation of nature's biodiversity. A review theme for the summit was 'Make a difference'. In important areas, small Norway was able to change the outcome in a positive direction; we were actually a difference. The government is responsible for an offensive environmental policy. That is why we have, for example: the proposed and, against the votes of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, the impact of a national climate quota system. We have presented our own marine environmental report and reinforced our efforts towards emissions from Sellafield. The debate shows that we are facing a difficult harvest session both economically and politically. Last fall, the voters put together a magnificence we've never seen before. No batches received more than 25 pst. by the votes cast. No two-party cooperation forms majority. Cooperation between three or more parties is required to create a majority. I am happy to lead a government that takes responsibility in a demanding parliamentary situation. The Co-operation Board has developed good internal cooperation. Most of our proposals in Stortinget have been implemented. We have a governance government with great impact. The debate on majority governments is constantly returning. From time to time it can be tempting, but not at any cost. It gives easily large distances and contrasts within the government. It can cause paralysis. Multiplicity governments may appear more attractive than it really is. The Labour Party parliamentary leader will obviously have government cooperation with SV in order to increase predictability, as it says. So let's think about that. Select one week after the investment fee has now been removed, SV's manager announced that she would like it back to finance her increased spending proposals. I guess that's not exactly predictability. There will be an increased burden on business of DKK 6 billion per year at a time when businesses should invest so absolutely to provide jobs. It might be of interest to know whether the Workers' Party is in favour of such an unforeseeable policy as part of a new option. And further on about such an alternative again will mean attack on the cash support and thus the freedom of choice for young children's parents. In order not to talk about our security policy – for SV is still continuing towards NATO? These are important things that make Stoltenberg's alternative uncertain. For its part, the Labour Party has stated that the party is not interested in taking over government responsibilities now. I also expect the party to take the consequences. We will try a budgetary solution with the Progress Party. If we don't succeed, I expect the Workers' Party to be constructive and not go into the ditch that the party did when it sat on the sideline in the first half of the previous magnification period. With today's composition of the Stortinget, the Cooperative Government has the best starting point for governing. The languages of the throne provide a clear direction followed by clear priorities within the tight framework of the draft State budget. Stoltenberg gave yesterday an odicious presentation of the new course of the Cooperation Government. But our new course is: greater freedom of choice for small children's families through the combination of more and cheaper kindergartens and cash support to manage their own income and better working conditions for business by reducing tax and tax levels more offensive environmental policies, including: in climate issues, increasing efforts in the fight against poverty at home and increasing the quality of the basic welfare services such as school, health and care for the elderly facilitate Norway by reducing and simplifying legislation towards individuals, municipalities and businesses more firmly anchored in values and in the need for personal responsibility; The Norwegian economy is solid. But it's also a danger signal. Because of high interest rates and high prices, jobs in the competitive industry are at risk. The high interest rate also imposes heavy burdens on the local economy and on young people in the start-up phase. An interest rate increase of 1 pst. will, for example: give the municipalities an extra load of approx. $800 million. kr. A family in the start-up phase with a loan of 1.5 million. NOK, which is quite common, will have an increased annual cost of NOK 15 000, minus the tax advantage of approximately. $11,000, that's almost $1,000 a month. We're going to counteract this, and it's a main problem. Our best contribution to job security is to mitigate the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. The government therefore also attaches great importance to establishing income policy cooperation with the same objectives. Very many, both on the labour and employers side and in the economic and political environment, asked for a tight budget. The government has delivered that. We know the responsibility for the jobs and for people's economy. That's why we don't want to negotiate responsibility. Several of the convergence proposals are difficult, but we have to tighten up to keep the economy in order. We have to keep the bigger perspectives. Our country is not on its way into poverty and distress, as it may sometimes sound like. The state budget is $565 billion, the largest ever. In relation to all countries in the world, we have a particularly good situation. We're gonna take care of that. Let me also mention that our 12-year-old country has tripled the cost of medicine over the state budget, measured in current dollars. We've tripled the cost of recycling in the same period. We have doubled the cost of hospitals – and so has it – and the cost of sick pay has well over doubled since 1990. So a little bit about the use of oil money. Sometimes it sounds like we're not using money from the oil revenues. That's wrong. Without the oil revenues, the government budget would have gone with NOK 30 billion in deficit, which we are now adding to the budget. So to the debate on how much we're going to take out, where we're holding on to the principle of taking out real returns. Let's use a picture: there's a difference between lottomillionaires. One uses the 5 million. kr he won, right away, for a new car, cabins, sidewalks, shopping trips to Sweden – and the money is more or less spent. And then another one, it's going to add up to 5 million. kr in the bank and uses the interest rate, approx. 400,000 kroner a year, to clean up the house, to help the children with education, etc. That's the last thing we do. We don't spend the oil money, but the return of it. I also think the last lotto millionaire is clearly the wisest. Therefore, we cannot give in to the requirement to attack the Petroleum Fund itself. As the languages of the throne have been announced, the Cooperation Government has set itself clear objectives and priorities. The government will improve the quality of healthcare. We strengthen the supply of those groups that have been low in priority over a long period of time. This is particularly true in the area of psychiatry, cancer treatment and the supply of drug users. We also attach great importance to continuing the high level of activity in hospitals. I'm glad the waiting lists are getting shorter and shorter. At the end of August this year, there were 7 pst. fewer patients on the waiting list than one year before. It shows that we're on the right track. There is also a need for increased efforts towards those who have the least in society. This is why we have presented a separate ‘Action Plan against Poverty’ in Norway. I have great faith that this plan can form the basis for broad political agreement on what we must do to eliminate poverty in our country. The government has presented a separate action plan to reduce the drug problem. We are focusing on better prevention among children and young people and on better treatment for the heaviest drug users. They need to get a good health offer and better housing. The Co-operation Board attaches great importance to freedom of choice. We want to ensure freedom of choice in family policy through the greatest effort ever made in kindergartens and through the continuation of cash support. We also want to increase freedom of choice for people most through reduced taxes and taxes. We want to guarantee parental rights by facilitating parents to choose which school their children are going to attend. The government is committed to facilitating a more democratic society. We don't want an expert board in enclosed spaces, we want an open society where people get insight and influence. We are in the process of a comprehensive simplification effort to benefit individuals, municipalities, businesses and the voluntary sector. In a number of areas, work has already produced concrete results. Work is now speeding up. This is a cooperation policy on which all three government parties have their say. In these days we know how much of what we thought belonged to the fixed basic conditions of values and social morality is changing. Sometimes it seems that the fear of moralism has become a fear of morality. It's become too common not to care. A lot of people lose their foot fasts. Everything cannot be governed by appropriations, laws and regulations. It is also about attitudes and morals. Therefore, the Government is busy continuing an active value work. Especially in school, we want to strengthen awareness of values, increase respect for other people, prevent bullying and problem behaviour. Several value projects are in progress for this purpose. The debate on value is also strengthened in one of our greatest movements, the movement of sports. It has its own value project, which is based on four basic values: health, joy, community and honesty. On this basis, for example: the fight against doping. I see this as examples of promising signs that individuals and organisations are taking responsibility and doing their part to improve a good society. It is not always the case that state, county or municipality alone have to solve the problems. The welfare society is more than a welfare state. The Co-operation Board will facilitate the taking of personal responsibilities. We must demand the environment and the public. An important part of the Government’s programme is to renew and improve the public sector. But we should not forget the requirements for ourselves and our personal responsibility. And we must not forget that we are in an international context, where the most important thing is the fight for the poor and the persecuted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e161	I fully agree with Prime Minister Bondevik that there is a great deal that is good in Norway, that most people are doing well, and that very much has gone in the right direction in our country in recent years. But that's exactly why it's a little incomprehensible to me that it was so important for the government parties to go for a different course, a different direction, for the development of society than the one that has brought Norway to your country today, with the results we've achieved both nationally and internationally. After the elections last fall, the Christian People's Party chose to form a government with the Right and based on support from the Advance Party. It's a choice I respect, but I'm sorry. I believe that the country had been better served with a centre-left cooperation than a cooperation where the Christian People's Party and the Right are in government and based on support from the Advance Party. I also believe that a centre-left cooperation could have given the country a more predictable and stable government, a majority government, either as one has in Germany, where there is a centre-left majority that forms government, or as one has in Sweden, where there is a minority government that has a clear majority in parliament. Norway is probably the only parliamentary, Western democracies that have such an undecided governing basis for the Government, and it contributes to the uncertainty, the instability, as we see. A centre-left cooperation could help prevent it. In addition, and most importantly, it could contribute to a greater impact on important values of fair distribution and community. I agree that the budget should have a responsible framework. The more important it is that we make the right choices within those frameworks. This government has raised over 12 billion dollars in lower taxes. In return, it cuts into the school leisure system, reduces the daily allowance for the unemployed, and provides less than many years of care for the elderly and schools in the municipalities. It's a choice I disagree with, and it's in conflict with the Christian People's Party normally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e170	Stoltenberg believes it is incomprehensible that we have chosen a different course from that which has led our welfare society here today. As I said in my post: in some areas, we have chosen a different course to further improve the welfare society we have today. That is why we want to increase freedom of choice. That's why we want to increase the environmental effort more than what the Stoltenberg government did. Therefore, we will create simpler Norway and better quality in welfare systems. Then Stoltenberg believes that cooperation with SV will create more predictability. So SV will reintroduce the investment fee that we have just cancelled to finance its increased expenditure. It's a bit of predictability for our businesses, which are struggling hard! I assume that SV and perhaps also the Workers' Party will still take the cash support from small children's families, who have based on it, and give them the opportunity to spend more time with the children. That's a little bit of predictability! In any case, we need to clarify such questions in order to know if it is so predictable. 12 billion kroner in tax bills, says Stoltenberg. In this budget, we're paying for $10 billion in tax bills that were adopted last year. NOK 8.7 billion of this has been voted for by the Labour Party – that is, by far the most. What's of additional tax relief, this time it's modest, just under $1 billion. It goes to ordinary people and to businesses. Will the Workers' Party increase tax relief? They can answer that later in the debate. If we are to finance increased expenditure by it, we increase the underlying expenditure growth and actually make the budget less tight. The disability benefit was mentioned. I'm a little surprised that it's coming now. This was presented in June on the basis of a unanimous Sandman committee, which almost all the hearing bodies concluded up about, and which the Social Political Spokesman of the Labour Party, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said was essentially in line with the Labour Party's policy because it is more aimed at bringing people into work than at social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e181	The Prime Minister actually compared the state to a lottomillionaire, and I assume that it's the oil revenues he expects to be the lottery win. What he forgot is that we've had such a lottery win many times before. The lottery win this year is NOK 172 billion. It's not like we're eating on any of the old Petroleum Fund and living off our returns. The truth is, you're increasing the fund by NOK 138 billion. You only use 34 of the 172 billion that comes in this year, while the fund net increases by NOK 138 billion. That's a completely different situation. In addition, this lottery millionaire – the state – knows that you get a quite formidable lottery prize, although you do not know how big, even every year in the years ahead, at least for a certain number of years. Last year, after the Stoltenberg government had submitted its government budget, the economists in the Ministry of Finance recalculated what the economy was up to. Activity corrected – there are calculations no one can control, because no one knows how it is done – and found last year 800 new mills. kr from the Stoltenberg Government and to the budget of the Bondevik Government. This year, there's a completely different downturn in activity. Will the Prime Minister ensure that there will be a new review in the Ministry of Finance in line with last year to see if it is possible, in the current situation, that instead of raising the oil fund by DKK 138 billion, perhaps only increase the oil fund by DKK 128 billion – we can actually live with that – thereby releasing DKK 10 billion for sensible measures to get a good budget into port?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e194	When we gradually build up the Petroleum Fund and, to the extent that it was correctly mentioned, add new billions, it is because it is needed for future generations. The Petroleum Fund is still far less than future pension liabilities. There will be a day when petroleum revenues will start to sink, and they will be completely gone. I guess we want our descendants to be able to keep up about the welfare level we have today. If we don't turn that into the Petroleum Fund now, they may not be able to do so, and I don't want to pursue a policy that takes away from coming generations. This is a matter of generation solidarity. In addition, if we, for example, would send 10 billion to the Norwegian economy, to which I understood Hagen will add, there is quite a broad consensus among economists and trade unions that it will mean a pressure on wages, because in many sectors we have a shortage of labour, and thus a pressure on prices, then a pressure on interest rates and looked at the price of the crown. And to make it very clear, I don't want to be in a position to send people such an interest bill. The increased expenditure that people get then far exceeds what we're talking about when it comes to, for example. parties and SFOs, which have been developed by some. I don't want to be in on that. And I don't want to be a part of sending businesses out of the country by competing them out. So this I'm afraid is a recipe for interest rate increase and lost jobs. The government sees its responsibility to prevent it, because we will take responsibility for people's economy and for safe jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e201	It is a very pressured Prime Minister who has to frighten with SV in a matter that was raised and clearly clarified from this pulpit yesterday. And that's not so strange, because there's nothing particularly funny about bad polls. We all know that from our own experience. But measurements aren't choices, and it's about putting your teeth together and fighting for what you believe, putting a plan and working systematically to get out of trouble. However, it is difficult to see how the Prime Minister is going to do just that. Around the municipalities are hard pressed and tried local politicians from the Christian People's Party and do not recognize the Christian People's Party's own election vows in what the Government proposes. The Christian People's Party is responsible for a Right-dominated minority government with birth helper Hagen in free flow. Hagen gets to be a bachelor and a gamer, and at home Bondevik is responsible for everything. Hagen comes in, admits the fathership of one child, refuses for the next and pays no contribution to anyone. On the contrary, he steals the household money to live in the city. And this is going to continue for three more years unless Bondevik puts his foot down. It must then be that at some point the Prime Minister either puts his foot down, chooses the Right and chooses another possible majority in this great hall or tells the Vicar Hagen that you can get inside the doorstep and take responsibility, so the neighborhood doesn't believe anything about us. I would like to know how the Prime Minister has thought that the next three years will make it clear to the voters who are responsible for the matters proposed and implemented by the Government, in a situation where you need to be a full-time employee and also work overtime to be able to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e210	A Pressed Prime Minister is every prime minister for a minority government, and the pressure of opposition from different sides. I'm used to it, it's nothing new. But with great boldness, I lead this government, which conducts a policy that is obviously not Right-dominated. That SV and the Workers' Party would say that was predictable – we knew that before the budget came, that they were going to say that. So there will be a budget that is strongly influenced by the fight against poverty in developing countries, for which SV does not mention and does not give any credit at all, strongly influenced by the fight against poverty in Norway, an uplift to public transport. And then they make themselves say that this is a purely right-dominated budget. The claim falls on its own unfairness, and it understands most. Good and bad gallups have been used to over 30 years as full-time politicians. I think I would refer there to Mr Jagland's speech yesterday, which was very good. One would sometimes think that in Norway there was a choice six times a month – we have six gallup institutes here. And then the media jump on and try to create political situations out of it. We cannot govern the country according to gallup-democratic principles. We have to rule the country based on what we think is right, and I am prepared to stand upright for it and, if necessary, put my foot down for it. I've done that before. I hope that someone in Stortinget will enter into constructive cooperation and show responsibility. It could sound like Kristin Halvorsen maybe she could feel the call to what we're going to see. And then she has this wonderful twist that she wants the Advance Party into government. SV, which I thought was contrary to most of what the Progress Party stands for, is going to have them in government to get more influence, because of course they have to if they're going into government. This is a game! We do not operate and form governments in Norway, assuming that someone has said that we must now reveal a party by sending it into the government. The formation of government is far too serious for that. We are forming a government if we believe that this is the best thing for the country based on a parliamentary situation, not with such motives as Kristin Halvorsen is now producing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e221	It is right, as the Prime Minister says, that the budget contains things that are good for combating poverty among the world's poorest. The Prime Minister also made a thought-provoking statement about the role that Norway should play in relation to the world’s poorest. The central party is pleased with the commitment shown by the Government in this area. The problem is that the party that has provided for the beginning of the Government, and that is to make sure that this government gets the most out of its policy, has quite consistently rejected just this proposal from the Government. The government has made its choice. It's not like the leader of the Christian People's Party said in the 'Political Quarter' of the morning today, that we have an opposition that is just out to create chaos and conflict. For the scheme presented by the Government for next year's budget, tax relief mainly includes those who have the highest income – I say not to the richest, but to those who have the highest income. It's zero in tax payable to those who make less than $200,000. There are increased excesses and inadequacies for those who have the most difficulty: those who go unemployed, those who are ill, those who have high costs because of illness. And it's seven times as strong growth in private consumption as in public consumption as it's charged in the same budget. It provides a poorer public school, poorer municipal elderly care, less money for culture and less money for elderly care, while, on the other hand, it should be easier to establish private schools, private care services, etc. – In sum, a policy of increased differences, a policy that goes in the opposite direction of what the Central Party wants, and also in the opposite direction of the Christian People’s Party, stood for until 10 September last autumn. Then the government cannot expect the opposition to applaud such a policy. I will ask the Prime Minister to answer two short questions. Does the Prime Minister recognize that it is primarily the responsibility of the Government to adopt the budget presented – not the opposition’s responsibility, but the responsibility of the Government? Or is it that the Prime Minister shares the opinion of her party leader as she expressed it in the ‘Policy Quarter’ today: the opposition is just out to create chaos and conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e230	There was a lot to deal with, but I'm going to try to answer, also to the two questions. It is not tax relief primarily for those who serve most of the time. The highest tax element is raised to a point where it is actually still slightly below the average for those who have full-time jobs in Norway, about NOK 340,000. We're increasing the minimum subtraction. We're increasing the union deduction somewhat. And we're increasing the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations, and there's a lot of small-minded people in Norway who give to non-profit institutions. It's often the little ones that give the most. When I hear the Enoksen and others, I must be allowed to quote from the newspaper's editorial on Tuesday, formerly the Arbeiderbladet: ‘But part of the criticism of individual parties and environments is pure black paint without real coverage. With the exception of Frp, all the government asked a tight government budget for interest. That's what you've got. Should the budget lead to a decline in interest rates, the municipalities and most people will have more to walk with. The State budget is not so tight that it is suffocating the welfare state, taxpayers and industry. The richest country in the world will also experience wealth growth next year.’ That's well said, and something quite different from what we heard from the pulpit now. It was also a little strange that the representative Enoch, head of the Central Party, did not mention district policy in one word. Here we got a lot of criticism last year. This year we are proposing a new district fund, in cooperation with the Swedish authorities, which can provide good help to businesses in the districts. We're reintroducing municipal nutrition funds. And there are other good district policies. It's not right that we increase the proportion of those who have the big costs. It is those who have relatively modest expenditures, which can get some increase, max. 40 kroner a month, while those who have large expenditures for example. Physiotherapy, training, climate travel and reimbursable dental treatment will now be reduced by proposing for the first time a roof 2. It is the overall responsibility of the Government and the Storting to adopt a government budget. And in the case of chaos, yes, as the parties have behaved so far, where the Workers' Party in a way disclaims the responsibility of an obedient production, and the Advance Party will spend more money and earn less, it may be a chaotic situation. But I hope it doesn't happen until we adopt the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e255	What we have experienced today on the part of the Prime Minister, I believe, has never been experienced in the national assembly of any other country, and not in any other Western European parliamentary system. It is that the Prime Minister has first invited the Advance Party to budgetary cooperation – that is, the party that was incarcerated by this government – if it does not work, the Government will contact the Workers' Party, and if it does not work, he has also invited SV to possible budgetary cooperation in the reply. Of course, the Government is free to turn to all possible and impossible celestial directions to try to get a majority for a budget, which is the main governing document for a government. At the same time, however, it is an expression of how confusing the parliamentary situation is, as a result of the failure of the Government to recognise its parliamentary basis or basis, and the fact that the basis has some problems in recognizing the danger. In addition, I think it is an advantage if the Prime Minister understands that ‘fixed follow’ is a term that might also have been useful to have something more of in the policy. I simply believe that both democracy – the People's Rule – and respect for the fact that there are clear alternatives would be strengthened if there were clear majority options. Then we also have to cooperate with parties that we disagree with in individual matters. The working party and SV are two different parties with independent positions and disagreements on several points, but we have a lot in common. Just as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party disagree – every year the Right Party has proposed many billions in cut aid in this Chamber, yet the Christian People's Party will cooperate with them. That's excellent. I understand. They have proposed cuts in the railways, they have proposed cuts in the districts, yet the Christian People's Party will cooperate. That's the way it has to be for other parties. But then we have to figure out: which parties do we think can manage the social development and the values we think are best for the Norwegian society over time? Then I think a center -- left-wing cooperation is better and more stable than what we see now, a minority government of the Right and Christian People's Party, based on an unpredictable progressive party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e262	Stoltenberg has tried to give the impression that this government is in a completely different position than previous minority governments because we do not have an agreement, which he talked about yesterday – or so-called permanent follow-up today – with another party. There's nothing new. The working party itself has been in exactly the same situation. Gro Harlem Brundtland's minority government had no agreement with us in opposition and actually cooperated with various parties on a case-by-case basis. The government of Thorbjørn Jagland had no agreement with us in opposition, and Stoltenberg's own government did not. So this is actually not very new. We acknowledge that the Progress Party then laid the foundations of the Cooperation Government, and therefore we will seek a negotiated solution with them, as we did in our revised national budget. But I hope that other parties will not waive responsibility if they do not succeed. I've actually been in both majority and minority governments -- I think I know what I'm talking about. The majority government I sat in was a center-right government. It went well. Today, we do not have the opportunity for such a majority government. If a majority government is to be formed today, the tension between the parties will become very large with the imaginable constellations that exist, so great that I think it can quickly become an action-damaged government rather than a forceful one. That's no better option. What I said in relation to the fact that Stoltenberg will cooperate with SV is not an attempt to "scream with SV", as Kristin Halvorsen said. But I pointed to some simple facts. I heard her myself in the TV studio a few days ago, on questions about how they were going to finance their expenses, say: Yes, among other things. by reintroducing the investment levy. It could be an idea – one and a half weeks after it was lifted. I have to say that is a bit of predictability, which Stoltenberg is going to have as a goal with his government. Maybe they're going to attack cash support and freedom of choice, and what about security policy? This isn't an attempt to scare, this is the fact of the relationship between the two parties, and then you get to clarify it if you're going to form an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e271	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e274	There's a lot that's good in our country, and I'm not going to confess to the Prime Minister because he often emphasizes it. However, the government parties were not so concerned about how good it was before the elections last autumn. Then the message was that the country needed a different course. It should therefore not surprise the Government that the search light of this autumn is precisely placed on the government’s political change in course. Work, welfare and good distribution have made Norway one of the best countries to live in. We have gone the way from caring for the deserving to well-being of all through good Community solutions. The Labour Party will further develop our society based on good Community solutions and on fair distribution. Working for all is the most important foundation for the good distribution of well-being. Unfortunately, we now experience an increase in unemployment. Since the Bondevik II government took over one year ago, unemployment has increased by about 14 000 people. These are 14,000 single families that are affected. In the national budget, the government estimates that the unemployment rate may rise to over 100000 over the next year. A tight budget is the Government's response to this. I can assure you that the Labour Party too believes that this is absolutely necessary. But there's more to it than that. The government did not take the situation seriously in our opinion. We warned against the use of money that the government raised in the revised national budget, which has caused unnecessary problems for our competitive industry. At the same time, the government has built up food policy instruments, which should contribute to the necessary innovation and to the development of new jobs. Low labour market policies also make transition to the labour market difficult. The Right- predominant government headed by Bondevik is guided by a different course from the Workers' Party in terms of welfare and distribution policy. Social security is the foundation of our well-being. It shall ensure, inter alia: income for the unemployed, for the unemployed and for old-age pensioners. The cuts proposed by the Government for the disabled and for the unemployed have been storming – and rightly so. So the government will deprive you of a disembarkation right to make a profit of $50,000 without drawing it into the social security system and justifying it with the line of work. There is an understanding of the working line in which the Workers' Party disagrees. It was – and I remember it – the Workers' Party that, in the welfare announcement of the 1990s, proposed to increase the income for disabled people from 1⁄2 to 1 G, and then on the basis of the working line. Labour relations, although only a little work can be done, are important for income and for quality of life. When the Government wants to cut the day-to-day arrangements for the unemployed, there is another outcome of the change in the course as it appears – an unsocial course that hits those who have already had difficulty. So there's going to be more people out of work, and the government wants it to be even harder to be free. The loss of the right to earn a few extra dollars without benefits in social security and, in addition, to pay more for medicines and to have children in the school leisure system reinforces the same course. It is quite incomprehensible that the government is now proposing to remove the exemption from the prob lems of medicine on a blue prescription for the elderly over 67 years of age and for the disabled. This was proposed by the Workers' Party last autumn and introduced with the support of those who are now in government. So they were for this last year, but they removed it this year. It was introduced on 1 October and proposed to be removed on 3 October. And after listening to the Prime Minister's strong emphasis on predictability in politics, at least this proposal does not represent predictability. On the contrary, it is now very likely that what was proposed was introduced on 1 October and proposed closure when the budget came on 3 October, will probably be reintroduced on 20 November, when the budget is adopted in the Grand Duchy – all indications. So the sum of this is a price conversion that is so significant that Bondevik cannot continue to minimize the criticism by calling it a black paint. For those affected by the government's new course in these areas of distribution policy, it is very serious. Another significant change in course is the government's strong commitment to private schools and the corresponding down-priority of the general public school. I think the Right parliamentary leader might have let the cats out of the bag in the debate here yesterday when he said that no one knows what's going on in school next year, because it's the municipalities that's going to give priority. I know many who can help the government parties to understand the impact of less free income on the municipalities, and these are the country's rapporteurs. It means less to primary school, which in turn means poorer quality and school leaving. When the government removes half of the government's loan scheme to renovate worn-out schools, it's going to be $1 billion less for this necessary upgrade. So I don't think we need to wait for local government budgets to know how much or how little is invested in the school for next year. It's getting smaller in the community to the next year. I can't help talking about the kindergartens. Childcare policies are important for the Workers' Party. The government also continues to stress that it has the same objectives as we do in kindergarten policy. There shall be nursery facilities for all who so wish, and there shall be lower parental pay. When the majority of the Grand Duchy then decides to implement this policy, the Government uses many methods and opportunities they have available to try to undermine this implementation. It's unreasonable. What we need now is that they're all going in the same direction. The parental payment is going down, and we have to get speed on the expansion. I see that the municipal minister still blames the difficult economy of the municipalities for the fact that the Storting will spend more money on more and cheaper kindergartens. But the government budget tells us what's true, namely that the government is primarily funding child care spending by cutting transfers to families with children. This is mainly financed by kindergarten. But I'm going to do as the Scriptures say, I'm going to turn the other side to and once again invite the Government to contribute through cooperation to the achievement of the goals that we share in kindergarten policy, and do so in the best possible way. So far, the debate on the throne has not provided any clarity on how the Government should ensure a majority of its financial arrangements for next year. Nor will it become clearer after we have heard the Prime Minister’s intervention in this debate – rather on the contrary. For the Prime Minister, he makes it clear that he will start work in Stortingen on going to the Progress Party, but he expects the Labour Party to free him from the problems represented by the Progress Party. The uncertainty of Norwegian policy is that the Government and the party that captured the Government must assume a primary responsibility for it. A majority at Stortinget wanted a change of government. The Progress Party supported the creation of the Government and has also ensured that the Government's financial arrangements have been implemented for the current year. In spite of this, the Advance Party can thus be allowed to operate as a freelancer, who, in a number of areas afterwards, takes a distance from the policy they have secured in the Storting. Hagen and the Progress Party also run double accounting in economic policy. Hagen again underlined in yesterday's debate that the state of Norway is indebted and is running out of money. Yes, it is true that we do not have a foreign debt, but the Norwegian state, on the other hand, has a large domestic debt, and that is the pension debt that the country has in relation to all its inhabitants, which is payable. There are rights that the Norwegian people have earned in popular security, and that the state is obliged to pay. So it must be quite clear that any argument that this money should be used in other ways and in a foreign budget is meaningless, when the state has assumed such a great responsibility for pensions for our own citizens. Responsibility for clearing up the unclear political situation must lie with Bondevik and Hagen. Bondevik chose to form a government with Hagen's blessing. Now he also has to clarify what kind of basis – or "base", which was the term used last year – his government really has here in Stortinget. In my opinion, it is rather pointless to expect that the Workers' Party, which went off after the election to give room to a government that would give the country a different course, will now take responsibility for the right course that the Bondevik government has cancelled. The working party does not ask for confusion or for chaos. We're asking for the opposite. We are asking for clarification, and the Workers' Party will work to get to that point that we also have a clearer system of governance with us, that we have a majority government that can replace the unclear situation that is now in fact in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e324	One of the last working party government to do so was to amend the Norwegian Bank’s currency regulation with a view to giving Norway’s Bank greater independence and a clearer mandate to govern after inflation and not after the whole of the economy. What has happened afterwards is that the interest rate has risen, that the Bank of Norway now has an independent position, and that monetary and financial policy is moving slightly in the same direction. For a small nation, fortunately with its own currency, it is infinitely important that these play on layers. Today, the Bank of Norway appears more like a counterpart than a co-player, as a kind of over-judge in economic policy over the decisions taken in this Chamber, in the Government and also for the labour market. There are a number of arguments for this, but the main gravity of the arguments speaks in my opinion against this. Now I'm not going to ask the representative Solberg what she had to think about this, but there's also in this currency regulation emphasising the production and emphasising of employment, two elements that obviously didn't matter much to the governor and his board. One has chosen to look at this one-sidedly with inflation, which leads, among other things. the high interest rate we have, and the high-recorded dollar we have. There are many conditions in the economy that should now have indicated that interest rates should have fallen. Only during this harvest has there been an increasing unemployment rate. It has been a flare of private consumption, and the strong crown should also have meant that we imported significantly cheaper goods than we had otherwise done, which would have meant that the interest rate had fallen. It hasn't happened. My question to Solberg's representative is then: does she think that the currency regulation adopted by the Stortinget in the spring of a year and a half ago has worked satisfactorily, or does she think it is necessary that the Stortinget make some clarifications on this point that make monetary and financial policies in this country more consistent?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e335	It is right, as Mr Djupedal says, that it was the Workers' Party that, when we last sat in government, proposed the monetary policy guidelines that are in force. There are guidelines that the Workers' Party is still behind. There must be no doubt about it. But it is also quite right, as Mr Djupedal points out, to look at the overall picture where employment, production and economic activity are also emphasised. That's why the Workers' Party criticized the Government in the fall when we thought they were pursuing an economic policy that was driven by autopilot, not taking into account other factors in the economy that should be stressed. I think it would be too easy for politicians to discuss monetary policy unilaterally when looking at the whole of economic policy development. In fact, the Workers' Party believes that the Government did not take the responsibility they were supposed to take when we saw developments in the industry. Nor have they done what they should have done to get income policy cooperation in place, which allowed us to get back the whole economic policy we had in the past, where financial policy, that is, what we do in the budget of the United Kingdom, where income policy, that is, what is happening between the social partners, and monetary policy is playing a role. We have to go back to that. That is why the Workers' Party has taken the initiative to put on the ground a new solidarity option that is just about to take care of those reasons. We need economic governance where the three pillars of economic policy are tightening up, and not, as today, where they are fragmented, and where, in our opinion, the government has done too little to take responsibility for the economic governance of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e349	I want to start by giving credit to Solberg's representative for her posts, where she focused on competitive jobs. Preventing the flagging and decommissioning of enterprises due to high interest rates, strong currency and high pay levels is one of the main challenges facing the Government and the Storting in this period. The Labour Party has repeatedly stressed that the Government has a special responsibility to propose a tight fiscal policy. That responsibility has been taken by the Government. But accountability was not the only message from the Workers' Party earlier this year. Some parties mainly score political points of promising more money for most good purposes, knowing that the negative effects of such a line are not easy for everyone to bring with them. In our experience, the Workers' Party was part of this gallery. While Stoltenberg was talking about a tight state budget, many in the Workers' Party had the opposite message. There was a race between the Progress Party and representatives of the Workers' Party in promising new welfare measures which, in total, are incompatible with a tight fiscal policy. From Svein Roald Hansen came the promise of $9 billion in tax relief. From Tore Nordtun, the promise of SEK 1.6 billion came at depreciation rates. Reidar Sandal promised SEK 1.5 billion to the municipal sector. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen wanted to remove excesses for dentists and health care professionals. Olav Akselsen promised billions of subsidies to Norwegian seafarers. It's not long since these promises were promoted. If they are implemented, they will definitely not contribute to Norwegian competitiveness. Overbidden policy is, on the contrary, a threat to Norwegian jobs. The working party has operated a strange double communication in terms of expenditure lifts and workplaces, where Stoltenberg sits in the rear seat and shouts the brake, while many in the group sit in the front seat and give full gas. Can the representative, Mr Solberg, clarify whether this is the message of rigour and accountability and not the many overburdens and solstices that are the Labour Party's line in fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e362	I have great respect for the fact that there are different priorities between the parties in Norwegian policy. There is clearly a great disparity in the priorities that the Workers' Party will do in the coming years of this magnification period, and what the Right stands for. But what I have less understanding of is that when the Right People and other representatives of the government parties have the floor, all the promises made by all the other parties are totally irresponsible, while the sitting government is based on the most historic promises of relief in taxes and taxes ever made in a government statement. It is with respect to report strange that it should be irresponsible as soon as another party considers that there is something that should be given priority. Then to the Labour Party policy. Yes, we have shown in practice that we are pursuing a responsible economic policy. We also showed this at the latest in the review of the revised national budget. I must be allowed to remind the representative Hansen that the Workers' Party's financial arrangements were in fact more stringent than what the Government put forward and adopted by means of the Progress Party. So there's no hold on to it at all when the representative Hansen and others are trying to create the impression that the Workers' Party is running a loose economic policy. There will also be confirmation of the budget work of the harvest on our part in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e372	The representative of Solberg claimed that the Progress Party operates with a double entry. That, of course, is not correct. The progress batch does not operate with any double entries. She also showed that we have a large pension obligation in Norway for the future, and that is, of course, true. But if we facilitate that, one could also create values and jobs in Norway for the future. Then my question is: does not the Labour Party realize that an improvement in the framework conditions, e.g. lower taxes and lower taxes, structural measures, will provide the basis for greater value creation in future Norway, and can we therefore also provide the basis for higher surpluses in Norwegian enterprises, which in turn lay the basis for future tax revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e379	I would like to use the opportunity to repeat my claim that the Advance Party uses oil money twice, at least twice. I think it might actually be possible to prove that they use them many more times than two. But at least twice. The Progress Party has, here in Stortinget, promoted constitutional proposals to tie the country's oil revenues precisely to pensions. Then on the other hand, they have repeatedly freed the voters by telling them that this money will be used for a number of other purposes as well. It's double accounting. Then you spend the same money twice. If the Progress Party is serious about what they have said about linking our wealth, which we build through what we extract from the petroleum sector, to pensions, then the Progress Party should from now on stop talking about this money being spent for all other purposes. For that money cannot be used twice either. I have to remind the representative, Mr Hagesets, of the following: the state's wealth, which we have built up through what we have served as a petroleum nation, is today well below NOK 700 billion. At the end of 2000, the debt owed by the Norwegian State to the residents of this country on the pension side was NOK 2800 billion. It's not a future debt. It is a debt that the State already has in relation to Norwegian workers. So even if we don't have a foreign debt, as Hagen tends to say, we have a domestic debt, and it's big. We have a unique and good opportunity to serve that debt if we secure our wealth, just to fulfill our great obligations to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e389	Right went to choices at lower taxes, a better school and a modernised public sector for the best for people. So far we've followed up in government. Tax reliefs are record high in the course of the two financial years. We have promoted a number of measures to improve school quality. Modernisation is taking place with great strength, and we have made a number of proposals for simplifying laws and regulations and better targeting of public schemes. Reductions in taxes and taxes are important both for most people and for business. It gives increased freedom of choice for people and increased value creation. That's why the Government is following up on this. The government is, as I said, on a good path to fulfill the promises that have been made. Tax relief has benefited business and ordinary people. By increasing the entry point for top taxes, increasing the bottom line and lowering the housing tax when we also ordinary people. I have noticed that the future leader of the Workers' Party believes that we give to those who have the most from before. I think that point of view is quite clear to the majority of full-time workers in Norway, that they are the ones who already have the most. Should Stoltenberg keep words, that means that the taxes for those who have an average Norwegian income must be increased. This is, to a large extent, linked to the wing that has been in the Labour Party's policy. Stoltenberg promised this summer that he and the Workers' Party would promote a tight alternative to the budget. This is in particular also confirmed by Hill-Marta Solberg in the line change earlier. At the same time, the Workers' Party has been involved in large parts of the tax relief that must be financed in this State budget, for example. the investment tax. But after the government has submitted a tight budget, we see that the requirements for expenditure increases come on a continuous basis for all purposes of the Workers' Party. In this debate, the Labour Party will not respond to how they intend to cover this up. So it's not useful to refer to the double taxation or the so-called tax of the rich, because it's already used up at least five times by the Workers' Party. And then we're probably back to the true soul of the Workers' Party, that last year's tax reliefs were an exception, new tax increases are coming, and that's really the way they can get their budgets to jump in. I recall that in the autumn of 2000, the Labour Party government proposed NOK 12 billion in increased taxes and taxes, primarily directed at business. For the Government, a comprehensive policy is very important. Therefore, we have had to prioritise and make rather tough adjustments. But we have therefore chosen one clear priority in what we have put forward in the harvest: securing jobs and contributing to value creation and growth. Industrial workplaces are threatened by a high interest rate and a strong dollar. The right considers that preserving jobs in competitive business is one of the main challenges we face. Then we can't keep the costs running. We simply cannot afford that in the future. A tight budget that controls the growth of public expenditure is also the most important regional policy measure we have. Where is the competitive industry located in this country? Yes, it is located along the west coast, in North Norway or in the inner eastern region. These are the areas that are hit hardest by high interest rates and high interest rates. There will be no more well-being either public or private of higher interest rates and stronger dollar rates. However, there will be lower welfare through job losses, higher housing costs for young people and less money for municipal services. But for the Right, it's not just about keeping. Right will change the policy to contribute to innovation. That is why we have focused on research both in the private and public spheres and on the company's framework conditions. We have a strong strengthening of research appropriations, and we make it more beneficial for companies to carry out research themselves. We have removed dividend taxes and investment taxes, and we have put in place a number of measures to increase competition in aviation. And we have succeeded! But innovation also means that we have to take care of the existing business. We must not lose what we have, nor should we forget that much of the innovation is happening in existing businesses, or like bud shooting from these. This is closely linked, and if there is something we do not want to change, then it is a responsible policy that makes it attractive to do business. It is the welfare base of the future. Business life, municipalities and each of us see the need for simplification and a more inclusive public sector. For us, this is a primary goal in the future. We see that the laws and regulations are about to grow over our heads. We have to change this. We want to decentralise and delegate responsibility to the lowest possible level, and we want to simplify the law and regulation. We are doing this well. Among other things, we have proposed simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building, we look at legislation towards the municipal sector, and we will delegate responsibility down the system in several areas, including: in the environment and agriculture. This is what we do to create greater creativity and to ensure that decisions can be taken as closely as possible as possible and to remove obstacles to innovation. The right and the other parties went to the elections at the request of a better school. When 20 pst. Of those leaving high school, not able to read and write properly, as the Norwegian school system has not worked well enough. It was a main message from the Right in the campaign. We're one of the countries that spends the most money in school -- 46 pst. more than the OECD average. At the same time, international comparisons show that the results we achieve are mediocre. Therefore, the Right focused on the quality of school in the election campaign last year. And we follow it up in the government. We strengthen teacher training, strengthen basic training and have introduced bonus and demonstration schools to mention something. But school spending is determined not only by priorities at national level but also by local elections. In Oslo, where the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are in charge, there is a stake in the school. In the workers' party-run Bergen, the school is the first thing you kiss! So it's also about priorities, but it's just as much about letting the schools go free to develop good forms of teaching and a scheme adapted to the individual student. That's why we want to change school to give students a better school. It's in this way that we create a future that makes us also get a robust welfare society. It is striking that the Workers' Party throughout the 1990s talked about paying off work and education. Yes, it was even the slogan in 1997 – as Ichland has repeatedly stressed that you got 35 pst. termination of: work and training shall pay off. On the basis of the reactions of the Workers' Party's representatives to the State budget and in the persuasion debate, it appears that the party has left this line. The government will follow the line of work, and we have proposed some changes to the budget, all with the common denominator that it will pay off to work. For the most important thing for those who have no job today is to get to work and not primarily how much you get in cash. It should not be that you have to earn more by combining work and social security than by just working. Then we're on wild roads in our society. Therefore, the Government will change labour market policies to increase employment by strengthening the personal follow-up of job seekers in Aetat, changing the day-to-day arrangements to stimulate more active job search, and targeting long-term unemployed social assistance clients. We want to change social policy to reach those who really need help. We must dare to ask questions about whether the schemes offered by the welfare state really reach those with the greatest needs for public support. Most people are doing very well in Norway, but some are outside. So we have to make changes to get to the most difficult ones. In the Government's poverty message, we have just done this. We have focused on targeted actions that we know are reaching. It is not that it is best to lubricate thickly, but to target to reach those who fall through. If that's this Workers' Party, right-wing policy, I'll admit it. I'm more concerned with those that fall completely outside, than those that lie in the middle of the tree of Norwegian society. In my opinion, it is better to have a content policy than to fall due to rhetoric, as the Labour Party has done in this debate. So, while an increase in the top tax element from NOK 320,000 to just over NOK 340,000 of the Workers' Party in this debate is characterised as giving those who have a lot, more, the biggest point of the next leader of the party is that a person who now has 6 G jobs can lose NOK 20 000 in holiday supplements in the daily allowance, with the changes we're adding – a searched example that almost none of them exist, but that applies to the exact same group that is called rich in one area and in the next area that defines as poor. There are limits on how long the growth of public transfers can continue. We have to do something to mitigate these costs. I believe that we must dare to look critically at today's schemes, so that as much as possible in working age should be active. So we're going to do that by holding on to the basic security. But we also have to twist the arrangements, so that we reach those who need the most help, while encouraging people to go to work. We need that. That is why we want to change Norway. We need it both for business and for those who fall outside. We need a different policy than the one we've been running before. The Labour Party does not respond to other policies; they are currently only responding to any change. At least the future is not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e428	The free income of municipalities will be reduced by NOK 0.5 billion compared to the municipality's income this year. This means that municipalities have to drop school classes, offer poorer school supplies, cut home care and cut home care. Councillor Solberg has been given the honor of being upright. That's good. A Council of States shall do so. But now, in its contribution, the State Council of Solberg has stressed that the Government will provide new tax relief next year and growth in some areas, while at the same time reducing the income of municipalities than this year. I ask the Council of State to confirm that it is a choice. It would have been fully possible within the overall budget framework to spend more on care for the elderly and on schools in municipalities, and less on tax relief and other measures. Erna Solberg has to stop depriving himself of responsibility for his own choices, pushing it over to others – on kindergarten negotiations and whatever it might be. Such a waiver of liability is wrong, and such a waiver of liability is a political cowardice. Cut into the local economy is the government's choice. The government has chosen to cut the offer to the elderly and cut the offer to the schoolchildren to pay the Right tax credits. When local authorities have to cut school and home help, the government has set the financial framework that makes it necessary. It is not the choice of local politicians. They doubt the limits they have received. Then there will also be disclaimer when Solberg owes it to the municipal politicians in Bergen and other municipalities, and it will be political cowardice. Right, it's making the opposite of what they promised last harvest. There won't be taxes in school. It'll be cut in school to pay tax breaks to the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e440	Former Minister of Finance, Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen, at this inception of the budget negotiations, has decided to apply the full calculation of the municipal growth system in the context of the municipal economy. If his method of calculating that there has been a cut of DKK 0.5 billion in the incomes that the municipalities had, it resulted in the scheme that former Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen promoted last year, a cut of DKK 1.5 billion in free income, because last year the municipal sector retained NOK 3 billion in extraordinary tax revenues. This year they have received DKK 1 billion in extraordinary tax revenue. But last year they didn't get to keep it in the setup that came in, and they haven't got to keep the last billion this year. The first billion that they received during the year, they were kept, but the second billion is not carried on. We've followed up on the scheme we put forward in the context of the municipal economic proposition. What's interesting is to see if the Workers' Party follows up what they said was wrong with the municipal economics proposition, or if they're going to add up something that fits with the rhetoric. Yesterday, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen said on TV that they would have NOK 1.2 billion more for the municipal sector than the government has proposed. It would have been NOK 2.2 billion if it were to match what you said before the summer, if the method of calculating the way you're now trying to create new systems, would be right for Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen. Yes, it's difficult in the municipal sector. My point of mentioning Bergen was actually that there is also room for local priorities. Every financial year, Bergen Right has proposed budget lines with a stronger priority than the Labour Party Town Council has had in terms of school. There is room for political choices, and these choices can be systematically traced back over recent years, and show that there have also been choices in local policy in Bergen. The Labour Party has chosen not to give priority to school. The right in Bergen has chosen to give priority to school. These rooms exist, and they are also within the budget line now presented. The working party is now running a giant rhetoric with very little money. The local government sector says they need NOK 6 billion. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will give them NOK 1.2 billion. There would be difficult priorities for the Workers' Party's arrangements as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e453	There are particularly a few areas where I attach myself to the government's policy. One is the slow pace of the implementation of an active competition policy in the public sector, and the other is the continued strong desire of the Government to increase labour migration to Norway from all over the world. Let me do the last one first. At a time of increasing unemployment, it is most strange that the Government continues its work unrelentingly to increase labour migration to Norway from outside Europe. The Progress Party is very incomprehensible to the Government’s work on a significant embellishment of the Labour Immigration Code. Firstly, the Progress Party believes that the lack of labour is strongly exaggerated, and secondly, the Government sends out signals with such a policy that makes Norway a very attractive target for asylum seekers from around the world. At a time when Norway is exposed to an enormous pressure on asylum, it is hardly any good policy to proclaim to the whole world that here in Norway we want increased labour migration. It is by no means surprising that Norwegian asylum policy has fallen completely off the hook. The Progress Party therefore supports today's proposal that the Government scrap the work on increased labour migration to Norway and hopes for the conclusion of this proposal. I would also like to express some disappointment at the slow pace of introducing a healthy competition policy in the Norwegian public sector, because competition means both better and cheaper public services, which both users and taxpayers have earned. However, the Government has not yet presented a convincing strategy to establish a sensible competition policy in the large public service sector as soon as possible. The Party for Progress promoted proposals in June to impose competitive outsourcing. Does the Council of State, Solberg, believe that increased labour migration remains the same today? And: Is she satisfied with the pace of modernisation of the municipal sector so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e464	No, I'm not satisfied with the pace in the municipal sector on the competition issue. I believe that it is an area of municipal autonomy that you have to make the choices yourself. But it is clear that when in January we made sure that we had neutrality in relation to VAT on cleaning services, which we put into the VAT compensation system, and so on. Today, it does not seem that it has increased its activeness in particular in the tendering activity in that area – we have had a number of examples in the past of having had to go away from private lower tenders because the VAT system has come into play as an obstacle – I am not satisfied with how the tendering activity is around the municipality sector. This may be because you're simply not aware of this. This may be due to the kind of question that comes first and foremost under the budgetary procedure in the municipal sector, but I know that this area should be considered by several municipalities. I have said, at the latest yesterday, to the National Government of the KS that if on a principle basis some municipalities still say that they will not even discuss the issue of competitive outsourcing, then I do not think it is as easy for them to say that there is a crisis in the local economy when they do not want to try to see what opportunities exist to get lower costs. On the other hand, the government follows up the program, which we've said we're going to do. We are now waiting for the VAT investigation that can help to remove the last obstacles legally and legally. With regard to labour immigration, we have always said that we come back with a case to the Storting on the principles of labour immigration and its liberalisation. It may be a good idea to look at the principles and the pace before deciding, in principle, whether to have a job or not. This gives you a good opportunity to assess both the need and the legislation that comes. We have been saying for almost a year now that we are going to the Stortinget before we go to further liberalisation, with the exception of one point: we are going to liberalise seasonal work before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e471	The government has seen clear goals in the throne, said the Prime Minister before today. One of them is to further develop the welfare state. When the government says that, one would believe that it would again appear to the most remote, welfare-providing authority, namely the municipalities. But here's nothing to pick up. It is difficult to understand how citizens should receive a further developed welfare service when this Government does not provide the municipalities with the financial resources they need to further develop the services. The municipalities of e.g. Sogn and Fjordane have a real decline in their income of 1.33 p.m. The municipalities of Nordland will receive 1,19 p.m. real decline. How does the Council of State think that one can further develop welfare services with less money to run for? Then the Council of State further says that municipalities should be given freedom, and there should be room for local priorities. It sounds good, but freedom to what? Take, for example: The school-time arrangements which have so far been earmarked but which are to enter the framework from 1 August. What freedom do municipalities or private individuals have to further develop the school leisure service when one on the road into the frame has cut by 217 million. Do you really want to delete this item? For local politicians, it is either a choice to increase the parental payment quite strongly or simply to lower it. I don't call it local political choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e480	The main further development of the welfare society is the provision of robust funding for the welfare society. So it's going to go inside and look at what arrangements we have to adapt another time, which makes it more flexible for people to live, among other things. by increasing the tailoring of service production and welfare systems. We will come back to that in a number of proposals for Stortinget, among others. in view of how we will achieve better coordination between social security, social assistance and the labour market situation than is currently the case. That was also the subject of yesterday's Social Affairs Minister. But it's not that the municipality of Norway lives beyond the other frameworks. I can take a random example, namely the municipalities in the home state of the representative of Grande Røys. In fact, most of them are strictly more dependent on the fact that we have jobs in the municipality in order to be able to further develop well-being than they really are of the local economy alone. They are strictly more dependent on the ability of the yard industry and the fishing industry to survive under international competition conditions than they are actually of the transfers that come from here. People are not going to live in those areas if there are no private jobs and a business life that forms the basis for them. That is the main purpose of this budget. The main purpose of this budget is: we do not achieve all the objectives we would like to achieve, with the increase in expenditure that is right in many areas in the public sector, because we have to take into account the interest rate, we have to take into account the price of the crown and the jobs. It is the most important thing for all municipalities in the districts. Most major cities could survive well at higher interest rates because they have jobs that are considerably more robust or because they are more focused on providing services between the population. But those who really run the municipalities in relation to an irresponsible economic policy are all the municipalities of District Norway. I also hope that the district representatives will see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e488	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e491	It has been a matter of using values that the Norwegian State has in this debate. I want to focus a little bit on creating values that we politicians can have for distribution for various good purposes. We have a fishing industry in Norway that is actually bubbling with optimism, and that has potential, but also has major challenges. One of the main challenges facing the fishing industry is access to a larger market to sell the products. We have received research reports that this industry, in total, including industry and commercial, common fisheries, aquaculture and sea grazing, can be the new Norwegian farm in the Norwegian economy. It has been suggested that over a period of 20-30 years, one might have been in an annual figure of 250 billion dollars. But if we are to be able to succeed in this industry, which is to exploit a renewable resource, we must have a government, and we must have a market to sell it to. Then we must not have a policy that hinders such development. I have the feeling that when I study what has been presented to the fishing industry today, both this government and the current governments have put boilers in the way that we can get a development that allows us to extract this potential. One of the biggest challenges is actually the market, but there we've also been tempted in Norway and won't help this industry that has a potential because we're so terrified that we have to choose between fish and agriculture. Maybe it's time we saw it like this. Norwegian fisheries must have access to the EU market. If we don't get it, we can't use the potential that this industry has. Perhaps we should have made more and stronger advances towards the US market too, at least for salmon. This is not an article for EU membership, but an article to facilitate stable, good and – I would say – the necessary framework conditions for the fishing industry. Access to the EU market is then one of the most important. And even more importantly, now that we are moving towards an enlargement of the EU. Poland is one of our largest markets when it concerns the pelagic species of fish herring and mackerel, and if they were to do so, the basis for the pelagic sector in fisheries would actually be gone. That's why it's very important that the government takes this into account, that the government actually looks at the possibility of having the EEA agreement renegotiated and expanded to include fish, and so that we can maintain the market that we have today, also in the ten new countries that have been launched to become members in just a few years. The alternative is not, as the representative of Mr Enoxsen said yesterday, that we should then give up part of our own fishing resources to EU countries. We've done enough of that at my discretion. We may have to be willing to look at whether our attitude when it comes to the ban on the import of food from the EU is so strict that it prevents the fishing industry from developing in the path we all want. It is a question of not having to lighten those requirements and allow us to import food – give them the possibilities. It'll also help the Baltic. We were really involved in fighting for their freedom. They have agricultural land, but they have a bad economy. They actually want to be able to sell some agricultural products to Norway. We don't do this, and we don't take the rule now, I think we're going to destroy the backbone of coastal settlement, that's the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e507	What this debate has shown is that there are clearer dividing lines in Norwegian policy than in many years. This is particularly evident in the distribution policy, where we are pleased that the Workers' Party and also the Centre Party are now approaching what has been the SV's position for many years. We also see very clearly that the government we have is a right-wing-dominated government with the Christian People's Party on the hook. We see it very clearly because this debate, and also they present this government promoting the Storting, is dominated by a Right-Orientated policy. Some from the Christian People's Party later feel that this is a central government that can cooperate a little here and there, but on all the important issues of distribution policy, we see that this government sits, of course, depending on the Right, but also with the Advance Party as its parliamentary supporter. It is what this country suffers from, a weak minority government with the Progress Party that draws policy even more to the right, and not least this unforeseeableness that this results from games and speculation, where, as if there were no kind of understanding with the Progress Party, the Progress Party does not acknowledge the danger to the government either. It's this situation that's going to be completely untransparent. But that's a choice the government has to pass. It is perhaps one of the most distressing things about this government, that it does not accept the choices and actions it makes. It's like, you know, it's kind of like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Having observed various speakers from the Christian People's Party for a long time, I think they are not particularly well-loving in this role. I think they are very poor at the fact that the Progress Party is now one of the most important premiscuous suppliers of what is supplied from the Government, and I think they are also very poor at the right taking the advantage of the policy. When I heard on the radio this morning that the leader of the Christian People's Party owes to the opposition that things are unclear in this room, it is with respect to report only deafness. One of the most important things a government has to do is to stand by its own choices and its own actions. This applies in particular to the party which has the Prime Minister. In yesterday’s debate, the Right made it a big point that they will change Norway, and it is likely that they will be able to do so if they have this whole period in two teams with the Progress Party. What we see is that the Right, which has now been in opposition for many years, has its drawer packed with various right-wing proposals that they have long wanted to promote, and which they now have the opportunity to try out simply because they are the dominant ones in the Government. We see it very well in the distribution policy. For the first time in modern times, no breakdown table has been provided in the national budget. The reason for this is, of course, that the Government is not concerned with distribution policy. They don't think it's important, they just think this is secondary to completely different considerations. We see this in the proposals that are being put forward when we propose a billion more in proportion to those who have the least. It says awfully much about the government's social face. We see it when they want to remove the blueprint for disability and to increase the ordinary self-payment by 500 kroner. We're looking at the dramatic tightening of the day-to-day pay system, etc. Tax relief – which this government otherwise likes to talk about – is therefore not paid to those who have less than NOK 200000. On the contrary, this group incurs increased costs, with the various peculiarities introduced in general but affecting this group more heavily. We also see it in the view of state ownership, privatisation, etc. The relationship that we might see most strongly is the relationship between private and public consumption. This is also one of the issues where polarisation has been most evident in this debate. Some parties, SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, are very clear that we want public consumption up, because it is the public consumption that contributes to the welfare state. Next year, it'll be pretty dramatic. It hasn't been such a big gap in many, many years – if ever. Private consumption shall grow seven times as much as public consumption. It is not surprising that the rapporteurs of the Christian People's Party are wondering what the Government is really doing. And it's no wonder that when they and the Right Rapporteurs come into the Storting, they sound like SV-are the whole crowd. They are unable to find a good explanation why it should be so that the contrast between the classroom and the children's room will grow only in the years to come. But it should be said that the direction this government is running in is clear. They're running clearly in the right direction, and it's also going to be shown over time to an even greater degree. Because it's not like every decision in itself is dramatic. It is the totality of all these small and large decisions that are taken, in a sense, the totality of this right-wing policy. In the previous budget we saw it clearly, we see it in the revised budget, we see it in many different propositions and messages to the Stortinge, and we see it in the budget that the Stortinge now has to deal with. It's the totality over time that shows very clearly which direction this government is going in, and we also see that becoming very uncomfortable for parts of the Government's own members. I see that the municipal minister in today's newspapers owes a debt to the opposition to poor municipal economy linked to the kindergarten settlement. Fortunately, the husband of abstinence and disclaimer is rarely experienced. It's probably an example that the government is not behind its own priorities and choices, but is constantly blaming the opposition for the choices they make themselves. In the budget proposal, it will be very clear that this government is funding the entire kindergarten effort with cuts in various support schemes for young children’s parents. You cut in the SFO, you cut in the baby supplement, you don't adjust the child's pension, and you take over 200 million. kr from the general bet to the municipality. This is done by the Government at the same time as it tries to pretend it does not bet on the municipality because the opposition has entered into a child care settlement. Just so it's said: what the opposition does is to fulfill the Prime Minister's party's own election vows to its voters. We now make sure that for the first time in many, many years you cut through everything and say, "That's the way it should be." Now the grandchildren and the little children are finally going to get the benefits of the promises the Stortinget has made over many, many years. The government once again chooses to stand out from this agreement and then tries to doubt it, trying to doubt whether this bet is for the benefit of young children's parents. I think it's very unwise for the government to choose such an approach. A responsible government will see that it has lost, and will play along with the opposition to make this the best possible, instead of creating continuous doubt and uncertainty. There are so many hundreds of thousands of young children and parents who depend on this to be a success. I can assure the Government that the four parties that are behind the agreement intend to implement it. The government may choose to continue to doubt it. It'll be very unfortunate for the many hundreds of thousands who depend on it. This only shows once again the disclaimer by the Government. I have to say that it is very unwise, and like Hill-Marta Solberg, I would like to invite the Government now to have a slightly different attitude, a responsible attitude. The word ‘responsible’ is used extensively in this room. This is responsible: to help ensure that there is no greater ambiguity around this. What is, of course, the reality, and as most people will see – including the rapporteurs from the Right and the Christian People's Party – is that it is completely incomprehensible why the Stortinget should not afford this bet on kindergartens, and why this must necessarily mean that all the municipalities of the country should bleed for it. There is no connection in this, and it shows the budget proposal very clearly. We see that this is also linked to the school, which has been debated in this room. The school was last year's big election winner. Right cut big at school, and SV cut at school. The Christian People's Party also had a strong profile of the school getting better. We were going to make the world's best education. We were going to lift Education Norway so that it would somehow be the Norway of the future that lit up on the school bench. What's odd to see here is that there's no bet in school, except the bet in private schools. Private schools will get over NOK 0.5 billion more. In addition, we are now going to have a change in the private school law that makes it much easier and much cheaper to set up private schools for those who would like it. But all this money they take from the municipality, because from the moment a student goes to a private school, the grant is automatically withdrawn from the municipality that otherwise runs the public school. That means that it is the municipality that finances the investment in private schools that the government wants. This is probably an example that it's the right-hand state that we're now seeing clearer and clearer the outlines of. Then, over time, we won't get the general school of unity, which has been in a way the greatest strength of our society. We also see that the loan scheme for new school buildings has a billion dollars. SV has never wanted this loan arrangement. We wanted it to be a grant scheme that actually gave us better school construction. But cutting into the loan system that, after all, exists, with a billion, shows how little this government actually rates on education. Even though government councillor Erna Solberg later on as something else, there is a very clear link between quality and resource input. It is not that unlimited resources necessarily create quality, but it is that insufficient resources obviously do not generate quality. If we're to create the world's best school, it's necessary to spend money. The result of the right-hand policy we look at fields for fields. Finally, let me just mention one point, which is important: the continuous pressure on the local economy, on reorganisation and on the outsourcing of competition – or what is now called – causes great wear and tear for the employees. They've been reorganizing for more than ten years. We heard on the radio this morning that working life is one of the reasons for the great mental distress that many people have. That means that an important part of this is to provide safe, predictable framework conditions for many hundreds of thousands of public employees, a piece that SV takes very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e544	It's interesting to listen to the representative, Djupedal. I share many of his views on the evolution drawn up in the throne and in the budget presented. What I might have expected of Djupedal was that he had given some consideration to employment. What we are now seeing is that more and more people are becoming unemployed, and I think that is a serious move in time. The fact that the government that is sitting at that time did not even bring any concrete industrial package to meet the challenges we face in terms of employment is very serious. We also see that the daily allowance is now greatly reduced for those who become unemployed – up to 10 pst. –and this contributes to creating a huge inequality. What I would like to ask the representative, Mr Djupedal, is: how does SV view the development of the competitive industry, especially the land-based industry, in relation to the rest of the world? In the West we see that one company after another is now flagging out. They also partly decline because they do not have the conditions of competition necessary in an international competition. I am familiar with SV's position regarding the EEA Agreement. As I understand it, SV also disagrees that we are going to have the EEA agreement we have today. For us in the West and the industry there, it is absolutely imperative that we maintain the EEA Agreement and that it be made even better. As far as my personal view is concerned, I also think it is time for us to get into the EU, especially now that the EU is expanding. Is it now that SV seems that this EEA agreement, which has been a great help to our industry, should be recalibrated, even withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e557	I would like to thank the replicator for a good line and because it gives me the opportunity to say a little bit about employment. Unfortunately, the number was too short for that. Norwegian industry is facing very big challenges, and they are particularly linked to the high interest rate and the strong dollar rate. This is partly due to the fact that we now have a way of setting interest rates which means that we have an artificially high interest rate in Norway. So we have a stack of a central bank manager that gives us the opportunity to set interest rates, as a top judge in economic policy. This affects the competitive industry very hard. In my opinion, the interest rate should now have been lower. I believe that the temperature in the Norwegian economy indicates that the interest rate should have been lowered already. For some reason, the governor chooses not to do so. Unfortunately, he has authority to do so. From the point of view of the SV, it is infinitely important that there is a better link between financial and monetary policy in order to reduce cost pressures, for industry as well. Obviously, the difficult situation that we are in now bears the responsibility of the right-wing government, of course, because it's the one who's gotten through this way to do this. Clearly, those who have made the budget bear responsibility for the situation of the competitive industry. We in SV are not strangers to the need to promote different measures for industry. Because when we're in a situation where there are almost 100,000 unemployed, it's clear that it's dramatic for a lot of families. One measure that I know the industry is concerned about is an increased depreciation rate for investments in machinery. There we are far below comparable countries, both in the Nordic countries and on the continent. This could be a correct and targeted measure to raise the rate of investment, raise the pace of innovation, and achieve a relatively higher level of similarity in the framework conditions between Norwegian industry and foreign industry. Of course, these cuts made in the General Government Daycare Scheme will be opposed. We believe that the temperature in the Norwegian economy is now such that the interest rate should be reduced. I also believe that we should reintroduce a system in which we politicians and the Minister of Finance are, in fact, the chief responsible for Norwegian economic policy, and not the Prime Minister of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e572	SV and Øystein Djupedal constantly repeat about the government's policy that it takes from the poor and gives to the rich. It won't be more correct even if he repeats it often enough. I don't understand that it's taking from the poor to raise the minimum deduction, or that it's giving to the rich to make sure that those who earn less than NOK 340,000 don't pay the top tax, because I don't think they feel particularly rich. On the other hand, it may be said that SV and Øystein Djupedal are involved in taking from the poor and giving to the rich with the nursery agreement that was concluded in ours. For what does Øystein Djupedal think will happen with a maximum price of NOK 1500? It's also going to be a minimum price. Then it is not useful to say that the municipalities will still have lower prices for someone. According to the agreement, you should not get any money for it. In Oslo, for example, pay. those with the worst advice well below NOK 1 000 per year. month, and they with good advice well over NOK 3000. So the nursery arrangement can lead to more expensive kindergartens for those with poor advice, and cheaper for those with good advice. Isn't it to take from the poor and give to the rich? The same can be said of the tax exemption for nursery facilities paid by the employer. Øystein Djupedal says in today's business today that there is no doubt that there are those who have high incomes who will get the best out of this. Isn't this also to take from the poor and give to the rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e583	With regard to school in Norway, we have a maximum rate of zero. I think almost everyone here thinks that school should be free. There may be different views on this, but I assume that the Right in the beginning also believes that a publicly funded unit school – we keep private schools away – is a good idea. The maximum tariff is zero. Of course, those who have a lot of money will earn more than those who have little money. Those who are rich, who send their children to a normal Norwegian municipal kindergarten, will, of course, relatively make more use of the free school, because they could have paid for a better school. We want the same idea to apply to kindergartens. Of course, one who has good advice, and who had been able to afford to pay almost anything for a nursery, has relatively earned more. It's obvious. There's no surprise in that. But we want the kindergartens to have a maximum rate, so that all Norwegian small children's parents who want their children to go to a kindergarten have a financial opportunity to do so. Then we want to continue discounting and sibling moderation. This is going to be the bulk of the population coming back to, of course, so no one is going to get out worse than today. But remember, what the opposition has done is to bet heavily on child care in Norway, a bet that we almost haven't seen our husband for decades. We want to give all the country's grandchildren the opportunity to have a nursery in a cheap nursery, by the fact that the Stortinge is now going through considerable resources to give the toddlers the unique opportunity it is to go to kindergarten. This is actually good social policy, this is good childcare policy, and it's good child care policy. And once again, I want to challenge the government: don't do this nonsense and make all kinds of excuses for not being in it. This will be a reality. The government parties have to stop obstructing this, and rather say that OK, that's how we didn't really agree, but now we're lifting this together for the benefit of the country's young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e590	The representative, Djupedal, is very clear when it comes to the fact that SV wants to increase public consumption and reduce private consumption by increasing taxes and charges, which will exacerbate the competitiveness of Norwegian competitive industries. Apart from what SV has gone out and said that one would like to increase the taxation of seafarers, which means that a loss of many jobs within – direct – maritime and maritime industries, SV and Øystein Djupedal have been very impeccable in order to clarify what kind of taxes and taxes SV wants to increase, and with regard to what kind of consequences this will have for Norwegian competitive jobs. I would like to ask the representative, Mr. Djupedal, to come up and clarify and mention a little about what kind of taxes and charges SV would like to impose on the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e599	It was really a strange line. If the representative Hagesetter had taken the trouble with it, he could have gone into our alternative budget that we're spending every year. It's on SV's website, for everyone who wants to see it. All of our tax proposals are indicated. It also stands every year in the financial position that Gjermund Hagesetter himself in the Financial Committee has been and released, so there is nothing secret about this. But I am glad that this gives me an opportunity to say the following: The Progress Party presents taxes as a burden. Tax is no burden. Tax is an insurance premium to be able to live in a good country. Tax is the money we spend to create this good society for all of us. That means everyone pays in a little bit, and then we get a little bit back. Community services should be such that most of us pay the tax, not necessarily with pleasure, but with understanding. The Progress Party has a policy that's all over the world. Obviously, if you want a society with great social differences, if you want a society where fair distribution in a way is not a point, where you want a society where this glue that's supposed to keep a good society together doesn't exist, you're on a different planet than SV. I am not ashamed at all to say that for my part, Norwegian business as Norwegian taxpayers will of course have a better society with SV, but the insurance premium for this may be somewhat different. At international level, Norway does not have high taxes at all. We're under most of the comparable countries, and I think that's fine. There is no target for me that taxes should be high. But it's a goal for SV that we have a society that meets the overall needs of the community, that we have incomes that enable us to make good schools, cheaper kindergartens, that we can create a decent and good care for the elderly, that we can provide health care for all those who need it, without high self-payments, like that. This government we now have, wants to impose people. There's a cost that SV won't be able to impose on people. Therefore, our view is quite different from that of the Progress Party, but Hagesets are cordially welcome to read our alternative budget. All of our proposals are carefully drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e613	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e616	Norway has a poverty problem. Many people in Norway live daily in economic need. We have to take that seriously. It's our duty to do something about it. It doesn't have to be like this. Norway has sufficient resources to eliminate financial distress. At the same time, it is important to take inwards that Norway is among the countries in the world with the lowest share of the population living daily in poverty. So we've done a lot, even though we haven't done enough. This recognition must lead to a policy in which we take care of the best of the policies we have pursued. It has created a society with little poverty. At the same time, we need to develop new measures to eliminate the poverty we have. This leads to an important question: What aspects of Norwegian policy have produced good results? Why do we have less poverty than countries we can compare with? I want to point out three main reasons for that. Firstly, we have pursued a policy that has resulted in a very large proportion of the population being employed. This is the most important of all. The poor in Norway have few common features. One feature, however, is continuous. For various reasons, most poor people are outside the ordinary labour market. Work for everyone is therefore job no. 1 – also in the fight against poverty. Secondly, through a strong trade union movement, workers in Norway have generally a decent salary. Job in itself is not enough if the job does not pay a living. The United States, too, has a high level of professional participation, but still has a high level of poverty. People have jobs, but they can't live on their wages. They're what's called "working poor." Thirdly, and here we are approaching the core of the ideological dividing line that goes between the right and left of Norwegian policies: we have built a welfare society that has community solutions that embraces all. None of us know about and when we need the community. But we know that in the Norwegian welfare community there is no direct link between sickness and poverty, no direct link between unemployment and poverty, no direct link between disability and poverty, and no direct link between old age and poverty. Why is that so? Yes, because through the community we have a sick pay scheme, a unemployment allowance, a disability benefit and an old age pension. And we know that the community will ensure that our children receive education, so that they get a job, so that they can have the opportunity to create an autonomous economic foundation for their lives. And I as a granddaughter can let the community, through the kindergarten, take care of my child while myself and my wife are at work. The Community contributes to the building of financial autonomy as a family. The social democratic vision is to create a society that does not create poverty. The realisation of such a vision does not preclude the targeting of instruments. It is not the proposals in the Government’s action plan against poverty that are the problem. Many of them make sense. The problem is that the new measures are financed by weakening the capacity of the Community to prevent the creation of new poverty. On the one hand, the Government proposes 1000 places for labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. That's good. However, on the other hand, the Government proposes a number of measures that will significantly weaken the economic situation of the unemployed. The sum of this policy will be that we get a number of new social welfare recipients, because many unemployed can no longer live on the social security they get. The government says they want to protect large consumers of certain health services. To this end, they propose a new ceiling on the level of the individual’s pay for services such as physiotherapy, dental treatment, stay at training establishments and travel abroad. This in itself is a good measure. However, the costs of the new scheme are financed by reintroducing the abstinence of medicines on blue prescriptions for disabled persons and pensioners. Not enough of that, you're also proposing to raise the prowls. At the same time, a ceiling is set on how much people with high disease costs can receive as a special tax deduction. You give with one hand, but you do many times with the other. That's not how you fight poverty. That's how you create new poverty. Targeting must therefore be a complement to the broad Community solutions. This is where the government makes mistakes. This is where the government doesn't manage to live up to the expectations created by the throne. And that's of course all the different user organisations see. They see that the Government focuses solely on some new measures and fails to show the back of the medal. Therefore, they are also crystal clear in their judgment: the government's proposal for a government budget has a clearly unsocial profile. We in the Labour Party, too, should be humble when we talk about poverty. It is easy to see that the Government is on the wrong track. It's more difficult to point to what's the right track choice. However, individualised qualification measures for working life are at the core. A Labour Party sample has proposed that everyone outside the ordinary labour market should be given a right to such action. This means the introduction of a new right, whereby, through a contract with the public, the individual is to have adapted measures aimed at entering the labour market. The right shall be there for all, but the use of the right shall be adapted to the individual. The Community solution is the foundation, the targeting is based on it. The dividing lines of Norwegian policy are in the process of being marked with clarity. The government targets, tailoring, because it's cheaper than the Community solutions. Target targeting is financed through cuts in Community solutions. Over time, this will create a society that creates more poor people. This creates the charity society. The Minister of Social Affairs said in yesterday's debate that not everyone is being vaccinated because if anyone sneezes. I have little children myself. My experience is that vaccination is just about vaccinating everyone, because you don't know who gets sick. The Community is a vaccine of society. Some people get sick anyway. Targeting can never be anything but a community hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e653	Work is 'job no. 1” said Hanssen in his article. We must agree that work is the safest way out of poverty. It has also been used by the Government in its proposals for action against poverty. The so-called line of work has also been central to the Labour Party's policies throughout the 1990s. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has himself raised this issue a number of times, especially in the context of leading a working party in its own party on social justice. The representative stressed that work and activity should pay off and that combining work and social security should be facilitated. The government has also made a number of proposals in the area of social policy conversion, which are designed to strengthen the working environment and to make work pay. That is why I am a little surprised by the strong reactions, also from the Workers' Party, especially to the changes in social benefits to the disabled. Then you can ask questions about what the Workers' Party really means by the line of work. How will the Workers' Party implement the working line in practical policy? In the case of the special case of disability pension: how can the Workers' Party defend today's system, which leads to a disability pensioner who earns NOK 60000, being left with NOK 10 000 less in the wallet than a disability pensioner who earns NOK 50000? I also want to add: Is it not good cohesion policy, including for the Workers' Party, that most of us renounce some welfare schemes, so that we can focus on measures to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e666	No, it is not good policy to cut the unemployment benefit to finance labour market measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. Then one takes in and off some long-term recipients of social assistance from that queue, but then one fills in with new ones in others. One creates a unemployment pension that less can survive. It is a poor policy for distribution, and it is a poor response to poverty. The targeting of measures must be complementary to broad Community solutions. Then a thing can be done to tailor measures that can create fewer poor people. The working party is firmly and securely planted in the line of work, and we are going to deal with the Government's proposals for new guidelines for the social security system with seriousness and in a proper way. There are many of the proposals in Ot.prp. No 102 for 2001-2002 to which we will join. But there's also one point that we're definitely not going to join. We believe that we will weaken the workline if not part of those who have been dissatisfied for a long time will have the opportunity to try out the labour market without having to reduce the disability. We believe that it stimulates the line of work if, for example: – as my party’s parliamentary leader said yesterday – a barrister is given the opportunity to try out good days to see if he can make experience in working life that enables a person to believe that he has a residual ability to work, which means that one may eventually dare to reduce his disability and become more likely to participate in working life. Removes the option that allows you to try out, enumerates a disability, an amplifier does not enhance the taskbar.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e675	On 10 October, the International Day for the Protection of Mental Health is the International Day of Marking, and I note that in Norway, the Council for Mental Health has brought an invitation, or a request, to the political parties on the Stortinget with regard to the future of the mental health escalation plan. The invitation is quite timely. There is now a report from SINTEF Unimed, which shows that despite the fact that we have had a mental health escalation plan to increase efforts there, i.e. a priority of psychiatry efforts, the increase in funds has been twice as high in other parts of the healthcare system – 12 pst. from 1999 until now, while the increase has been 6 pst. within psychiatry. That means that despite the escalation plan, it is not the psychiatry that has been prioritised, but there are other areas. The government has now made it a highlight of its commitment to focus specifically on psychiatry with its 2003 budget of 670 million. kr. But when you look at what was in the intention of the Bondevik government in 1998, even the amount below what you had to bet in the period to be able to keep up with the development. I record that last year the Stoltenberg government said that for the remaining part of the period – i.e. from 2003 onwards – an average of NOK 1 billion had to be paid more annually in order to maintain the intention. It seems likely to be when you look at the figures and compare them to what the Mental Health Council is now addressing. Therefore, I would like to ask Bjarne Håkon Hanssen: Can we also count on support from the Workers' Party for a bet of that magnitude – that is to say, increase the focus on mental health in addition to what the Government adds, by another 330 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e684	I agree with Mr Ballo that there is every reason to be concerned about the situation in psychiatry. I also believe that this concern is reflected in the Government's government budget proposal by the fact that there is a proposal for a clear increase in funding for the psychiatry. So I think that the representative Ballo is right to ask questions about whether the increase is large enough to achieve the objectives of the psychiatry plan, which in itself is important. However, it is not least important to ask questions about whether the allocation is large enough, if one is to receive the growth and development of psychiatry that is necessary in relation to the challenges facing psychiatry. Therefore, these questions are related to the psychiatry of the questions we are now working with in the Labour Party in the context of the budgetary procedure. But, as Parliamentary leader Stoltenberg said yesterday, we have not come so far today that it is now possible for us to explain what will become our alternative state budget proposal. We have to get to work on that, and the answer must therefore be that we're busy with the same thing as Ballo. We're going into the situation in psychiatry, and we're going to have a hard time doing further budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e693	I want to start by commending Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's social commitment. There is a very high need, because one of the major challenges we face if we are to be able to call the welfare state is just to fight poverty and work against increasing differences. In 1996, Anne Enger Lahnstein had an interview with Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland on the topic of increasing differences. The central party's claim at the time was that we had come into a situation where the differences increased quite strongly, where there were several poor people, and where there were several who fell through in the welfare society we wanted. That claim was then quite categorical from Gro Harlem Brundtland's side. This was hesitation, it wasn't increasing differences, all groups had gotten it better. The last one was correct, but the differences increased. There was thorough evidence of this through the dissipation message provided by the central government two years later, which the Labour Party in 1996 saw no reason at all to produce, because there was no need for such a large-scale notification of increased differences. The situation was, in fact, that, with the exception of two years, the two years of central government, the differences increased throughout the 1990s. It is necessary and affordable that the Workers' Party now takes a settlement with this government's policy. This is absolutely necessary, because now it is really going in the wrong direction — towards increased differences, towards increased differences in income and relative to where you live. This is a fight that we would like to join with the Workers' Party. But my question to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is this: Is his social commitment and what the Workers' Party is doing now in relation to poverty reduction and the work to balance differences, also a settlement with the Workers' Party's old policies, which, of course, were the basis for increasing differences throughout the 1990s?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e704	In my main post, I tried to explain that the situation in Norway is characterised by a two-sidedness in the sense that we are probably the country in the world that has the lowest proportion of the population living in poverty. It is very important that we take with us the experience of what kind of policy has been pursued to achieve that goal and to have come so far, that is, to have such a low proportion of the population in a poverty situation. I think we in the Labour Party will be able to beat ourselves on the chest and say that much of the policy that has laid the foundation for Norway, after all, has so little poverty, we have a great deal of credit for it. We're going to be proud of that, and we're going to build on that. At the same time, there is no doubt that we in the Workers' Party have recently taken over the fact that we have still not achieved the goal of creating a society that does not create poverty. Although we have invested heavily in this area, it has developed a growing new poverty. I think the Workers' Party should take self-criticism because we didn't take this seriously early enough. For this reason, both the central government and the national government in the party have also placed so much emphasis on taking this recognition inward, and on the basis of the development of new policies. Not in the sense that we're going to abandon all old policies, but we're going to do the best we can in the future and build on it even when we're designing new policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e716	It's not just in Norway there's a power struggle going on. The power struggle that is now taking place in the international arena may be the most important thing of our time. That's the international part I want to focus on. This is a fight for nothing less than what global order we're going to have. Terrorism must be combated, there is a broad international consensus. But there is deep disagreement about how the fight against terrorism should be conducted. It's right that Secretary of State Petersen tends to point out that we're going to be very careful to make the United States the problem in this context. On the other hand, there is every reason to be concerned about the role the world's only superpower wants to play in the world's society after 11 September last year. Nor can Norway deny this debate of fear of being put on the United States list of ‘non-community’. Time should be given to read the new national security strategy presented by President Bush on 20 September. It's scary reading. The strategy makes it clear that the United States will practice preventive attacks against terrorist groups and so-called robber states. Preventive attacks are clearly contrary to international law, and it is a strategy that will make the world more insecure. What if other countries develop similar prevention strategies? If the United States is not to comply with international law, why should other countries do it? What reason would there be for only the United States to act as the sovereign judge of the world society? We've heard President Bush talk about the axis of evil. Iraq and North Korea are specifically mentioned in the National Security Strategy on Weapons of Mass Destruction. As far as Iraq is concerned, it is difficult to interpret the signals from the United States differently from the fact that they have decided to change their regime. American opinion expects a change of regime. For the United States, it would be useful to have a UN resolution in your back, but let's not live in the world of illusions. It doesn't seem to hold for the U.S. to get the weapons inspectors in. It was already the speech of President Bush to the UN General Assembly in autumn. The goal is to change regimes. The central party's assessment is that there is little reason to doubt that the United States will attack Iraq, with or without UN mandate. When you read the American strategy, there is no reason to believe that the United States will stop at Iraq. It's hard to read the strategy any other way than that North Korea is next. Iran, which is also part of the axis of evil according to Bush, is clearly believed to be in order after Iraq is managed. Norway’s position in the negotiations now taking place in the Security Council on Iraq needs to be developed in the light of the fact that the United States has established a new national security strategy. We can't hide under the umbrella 'the fight against terror'. In fact, the United States is developing new international driving rules. These are driving rules that are not based on international law but on military power. We need to be able to see this and also take the consequences of it. An international order based on military power won't serve anyone in the long run, and definitely not small countries. The Iraq case must not be seen as an extension of the fight against terrorism, as it was fought in Afghanistan. That's as far as we can understand, not proof of a link between Saddam and Al Qaida or that he intends to use weapons of mass destruction. That being said, we haven't had any confidence in Saddam either. Therefore, weapons inspectors must enter, and they must also have full access to the palaces. But let me stress that the weapons inspectors have to go to the task of the necessary neutrality. Therefore, the permanent members of the Security Council must not have any special status among the weapons inspectors, nor must they be backed by any military force. The Party will warn against a Resolution of the Security Council threatening the use of military force at this stage. Threaten one with military power, one must be ready to use it. The central party believes that the risk of using military force against Iraq is too great. We must remember that Iraq is an artificial state formation, created by the British in 1921. Repressive measures have maintained that state formation. The danger of the dissolution of Iraq is real. We can end up in similar situations, like Lebanon and Yugoslavia in the 1970s, and I ask if the international community is ready to deal with such a situation. Who will take responsibility after Saddam has fallen, and who will clean up after the Americans have reached their political goals? It will be difficult to deal with the current situation in the Security Council. I feel convinced that it will be an even more difficult situation to deal with in NATO in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e736	It is at the intersection of social policy and criminal policy that the humaneness of criminal policy is protected. It is at that point in time that the government is also doing its job to prevent abuse of children and young people by saying: If you are to leave the police to clean up when children and young people do something wrong, you have already reached the point where you have lost. You have to do what I see when I travel in this country. I experience people in Norway at local level, in local government and central government giving each other their hands and working together because they take the consequences of what they see. Parents look, and are concerned, teachers see, child protection workers see, police see. When they cooperate, there's going to be something that's unique about Norwegian society, that we're working together instead of playing black player games with each other, because a human being is worth so much that we care. I've seen all these stories, so we can say that our system works when you instead of running black player games, getting into the shell where you can sit for yourself, going out of it and working together. That's when we succeed. That's when it shines through our policy. I have seen this happen in municipalities with a lot of money, I have seen it happen in municipalities with little money. And why? Well, in the situations where field workers dare to be field workers – instead of being in fear in an office because you're afraid to make a mistake – and dare to go out, this unique Norwegian thing happens that everything we can see in our transparent society, we can do that to please someone. This is the main focus of a justice policy to help children and young people have a good life and avoid crime. Similarly, in those places that we don't see, for example, in the homes, and where there is violence and violence against women, we know that we have a duty to stand up in such a way that we reach out under social responsibility and provide protection. It is part of the public debate that several representatives in this Chamber have contributed to, when during the last year we have had an increase in stationary violence alarms in Norway, from approx. 500 to 750. That means that more people dare ask for the protection they need. There is a further development in the fact that it is in the budget, that next year we will also make mobile alarms available. It is part of the policy that we strengthen the provisions against men who are violent, so that they can be refused visits to their own homes, stay in their own homes and, if necessary, also in a larger geographical area. But this includes, among other things: So, as the representative Thorkildsen has brought me up a number of times in this room, that it is necessary to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. That's also why next year's state budget says we're going to contribute money to the rapprochement program for violent men. Those who know nothing more than to take out anger and beat, beat a woman, they must also get help when they are sitting and going to make up for themselves. This is how the policy is linked, so we can avoid hitting the weakest. And then when we say that we should also fight organized crime – anyone who wants to in this room can experience it through the movie "Lilja 4-ever" – we know it's cynical. Modern organized criminals run almost like a modern supermarket, where one day they run crime and smuggle drugs, the next day alcohol, and the next time women and children are hit. The police now have motivation, tools and tools to go after these backers, and it's time we did. In these behind-the-scenes landscapes, there is cynicism. Here, human dignity is disconnected for the sake of simple and simple profit, and it is a modern slave trade that is put into system. Trafficking in women is modern slave trade, and combating what we now call trafficking is combating this slave trade. At the same time, we know that we, together with other countries, in the Nordic countries and otherwise, have to do something about the conditions that drive people into this, among other things. the poverty we have in the neighbourhoods. There is cooperation in the Nordic context to do something about this. But there's no excuse for the Norwegian police not to stand up and go after these criminals. And the whole angle of this is that all those who have had to lie have simply missed the whole equality struggle. They've become the forgotten women, they're the victims of domestic violence, and they're the ones who lie under the bondage of "trafficking." This is seen in my eyes as a socially very responsible, important and correct line. It proves that where the social dimension is taken seriously, criminal policy can be used as an instrument to defend humanity against vulnerable people. It's the government's policy. It is outlined in two sober sentences in the throne that the Government will combat violence, especially that affecting women at home, and that the Government will fight all kinds of organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e750	I agree that criminal policy is in the area between social policy and humanism, as the Minister of Justice has just pointed out. At the turn of the year, the Furuset leisure club was laid down in Oslo. That is what social policy is, and that is what has resulted from the fact that the Grorud valley sees an increase in the number of armed forces, in relation to unrest and in relation to so-called petty crime in the child and youth communities. In Oslo, we see that over the last year, more than 800 new first-time criminals under the age of 18. More than half of these are now conjuring up the police as repeaters. This happens at a time when you choose to cut down just on the social security network, which could have lifted these kids in a completely different way of life. I have to say, after hearing the Minister of Justice now, that the challenge is really to fill the words with far more realistic and serious policies than what now seems to be the result. And my question to the Minister of Justice is: Is he willing to extend the criminal policy so far that it is actually now clear that the allocation to Norwegian municipalities is perhaps one of the most important things to bring down the criminality of children and young people – the appropriations for school, school leisure arrangements, cultural activities, etc.? And is he willing to admit that it is the countries that have just invested in building up this safety net and that at the same time say more prison and more police, who have lost and got the highest crime rate, especially among children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e765	The representative of Storberget answered the question to me at the beginning and at the end of his speech, that is, at the beginning of the meeting between criminal policy and social policy, that humanity is preserved, and, at the end, that we should not just think about punishment and compensation, but think in other ways. Let me give you some examples. Of course, local economy means a lot. That is the subject of debate in this Chamber. But I've been to poor municipalities, and I've been to rich municipalities. What makes the difference is when people are organized in such a way that they dare to leave the offices. I know situations from Oslo, how preventive units in the police have a long seagoing time, while maybe child-rescue workers rotate every two years. Then you will not be safe enough to leave your office, you will be seated. I also know the situation in the Groruddalen, where, among other things, the Ministry of Justice. have supported projects both at Furuset and Stovner because it is important. I know the prevention work of the Oslo police at Stovner. I have been involved in making a unique split, with child protection consultants located with the police to link the relationship back to home and parents. I know about parental mobilisation, and I've visited so many schools where I would like to say that I give unreserved commendation to teachers for a great effort to be role models for students and to give them a good life. I also meet many of these teachers who tell me that success stories are not interesting to the public, it's only when something's wrong, that it's interesting. Part of the Norwegian social policy balance sheet is lacking in the public debate. What we don't get, that's well described. What we do is badly described. It is also part of the balance sheet. But the representative of Storberget and I have it in common that we know that saving children and young people from crime starts long before you meet the police. It also starts in my mind with the use of conflict advice, it starts with youth contracts, and it starts at the extreme, for example. by the use of community sanctions. All these are useful measures that set limits, and are something other than one-sided to bet on penalties and repressive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e776	The government says in the throne that it will fight organized crime. The Progress Party will make a strong commitment to combating all serious crime. In this context, an up-to-date police force and an up-to-date prosecution authority are very important. It was therefore worrying to see the news yesterday, where one heard that the police had been in for one year on information about the possible fraud of public funds by a youth organisation. The police deliberately chose not to lift a finger. This can hardly be said to have a good signal effect on younger people and on youth organisations. Many ordinary people feel that reasonably simple and clear matters are being overlooked or ordered by the police. This reduces trust in the police as an active and effective law enforcement agent. Is this due to a position taken by the police, for which the Council of State is primarily responsible, or is it due to the fact that the police do not get the necessary money to do their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e783	The Norwegian police have had increasing appropriations over the years, but it is also well known that the police are undergoing the biggest reorganisation in Norway's history for their part by reorganising themselves in the police reform. It may be that in such a situation, some of the fight against crime may be affected, but it is precisely so that we can get an active police force out – both a police officer out there and a police officer who can follow up inside. My impression of going around Norwegian police districts – and I tend to do so – is that the police are highly motivated both at the basic level and at the top level to implement the reform and meet citizens’ demands and expectations. When it comes to the program yesterday, I haven't seen it, but I guess the representative is aiming for Ecocrim. Ecocrim has a rather high threshold, but it is fully possible to report to all other forms of Norwegian police. And the so-called scams we had in the past with youth organisations, among other things, became. taken up and loosed by the Oslo police district. The police are of course obliged to follow up serious matters and will do so. I perceive it so that the representative asked me about the mentality. Is there a will? Yes, it is. And let's take an example that has been in public: the imposition of profit crime in Oslo. Obviously, you have to settle a matter when you don't have one track! And it's clear that people report it to the police, because it's part of the insurance deal that you do. But is it good to have a low percentage of information? No, it's not! There's a much higher percentage of burglaries in houses and apartments, but where it's very low, is in the case of the thefts that happen on the open street. What do you have to do? You have to do what the Oslo Police Station does: use new police methods, try to be preventive, ally with the audience in the areas where you know this is happening, ally with the business community and build networks to get up the percentage of information. Police are motivated to fight crime. The whole police reform is about strengthening motivation. And my duty as the Council of State is to follow and make sure to give them support when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e794	This week it was a year since the war against the Taliban and Al Qaida started in Afghanistan. The war is still going on. Norway has been involved in the war on fighter aircraft with bombs for the first time since World War II. It is very difficult to see what military objectives are to be achieved before the war can end. Measured in money, there is no doubt that much more resources are now being spent on military warfare against terrorism than is being used on the others and, in our opinion, more obvious instruments. This includes, inter alia: intelligence activities, police instruments and measures to reduce vulnerability and increase civil protection against terrorism. SV is not alone in believing that there is an excessive focus on military instruments against terrorism. The problem is not only that warfare eats up resources and takes attention away from more effective and targeted instruments, but also that warfare can help create a ground for more terrorism. Violence breeds violence. Is it likely that the Al Qaida soldiers who have been chased up in the mountains or across the border with Pakistan are now working to rescind their weapons into plowshares? Is it not also likely that war against Iraq will be able to promote extremism and create instability that can bring about new terror? To bet on getting rid of the terrorist threats is, in the SV's opinion, pure gambling with our security. Norway is currently spending half a billion dollars on fighter aircraft equipped for bombing in Afghanistan. The Willoch-led Vulnerability Committee expressed the following: ‘The Committee does not consider that it is unnatural to ask questions in the balance of the allocation of resources between civil society and the military part of society’s total preparedness for extraordinary pressures, given the fundamental changes to the threat picture.’ My question to the Minister of Justice is therefore as follows: Does the Minister of Justice agree that there is too much focus on military instruments in the fight against terrorism, and that there is a distorted relationship between the resources that go to military action and those that go to civil protection and counter-terrorism through civil instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e811	Of course, I'm not private-practicing state councils with their own opinions, so when the government is waging war in Afghanistan, it's the government that does it – also with Left's support. When we do that, it's because we know that under the protection of Al Qaida, under the Taliban regime, we can say how Al Qaida took over the Taliban regime, it was experimented with weapons of mass destruction. We know that they were dangerously close to Russian facilities in the former Soviet Union. We recognize that operation, we're in favour of it. With regard to Iraq, the Norwegian line has been – and it is – that the United Nations system should operate in a precise and tidy manner. That's what the Foreign Minister has marked. But I did not feel that it was the main concern of the representative Bjørklund. I felt that the main issue of the representative, Bjørklund, was whether we were good enough in civil protection. Then the answer is that there we have neglected for a number of years. In 1980, I inspected the shelters in Trondheim as a magnificent representative of the South Trondelag. I'm not going to bother the meeting with the study! That's why I put down the Willoch Committee in its time. That is why I have been involved in increasing the appropriations, not only for police security and intelligence, as mentioned here, but also through the terrorist propaganda that the Stortinget dealt with – with too little debate, I think – where we are, among other things. should strengthen health preparedness and strengthen preparedness on the fire side. I would like to say the following, in principle, to the representative of Bjørklund, because I know that he is concerned with these questions: in Norway we have a unique strength in the competence that rests in our emergency situation – in our civil defence, in our home security, in our non-governmental organisations. They have a competence that gives us the best protection to fight threats if we dare to trust them, provide them with equipment, training and security. Then the representative Bjørklund and I have a mental challenge: how can we talk to the 7 Eleven generation in such a way – when we like the joys of 7 – that we make people think that one day it might be that you don't get to buy anything! People in Finnmark understand it when the current goes! Others should understand that too. But I understand from the representative, Bjørklund, that here we are on the common track, and we will probably be able to meet later on just to address the challenges that were the main issue of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e826	Norway is a rich country, a good country to live in, we have high employment and very many good welfare arrangements. Nevertheless, last year Bondevik thought that a new course was necessary for the country, and the Christian People's Party chose to enter a Right-dominated government that was dependent on the birth aid of the Advance Party. Now we see the new course. It is an unsocial Right Budget that has been submitted. The number of unemployed will increase, and those without work will get worse. I think everyone's agreed that getting people back to work is the most important thing, but when you see that jobs disappear, you have to accept that unemployment is going to be for a while. I don't think it's the way that those who are unemployed choose to be unemployed because today's systems are so good. They are because they do not get work. So if the government thinks that the arrangements are so good that people go home instead of wanting to work, she should say it's smarter. I don't think so. The situation of our competitively exposed industry is difficult because of strong crowns and higher interest rates than those we deal with. That's why it's important to have a tight budget, and the Labour Party will be involved. We also thought that was necessary in June of this year when we dealt with the revised national budget, but then the government had no backbone to endure. Spending money was for temptation. Right has made it a virtue not to have an industrial policy. It is more disappointing that the Christian People's Party is not more busy with industry and employment, and that they were involved in removing both the reimbursement scheme and the net pay arrangements for seafarers, which they were so busy fighting for last year. We know that our welfare is in the municipalities. What is now happening in the municipalities, with cuts in the care of the elderly and cuts in school, is very sad. We are actually very many who think Right's promises before the election last fall: school, school, school – and it was probably none of us who realized that it was going to mean scurvy in the school. The municipal minister said here earlier in an article today that right-wing municipalities prioritized schools, while the workers party-driven Bergen first cut in the school. The municipal minister is well aware that Bergen receives too little funds in relation to the other cities. Yet it was so that at the entrance of this year Bergen was the great city that spent most of the funds for the school. Bergen has streamlined the administration throughout the 1990s, so Bergen is now the city that uses at least the administration according to KOSTRA. So now listen to the municipal minister and the government take responsibility for Bergen cutting funds to school, because the municipal minister and the government cut transfers to the municipalities. We've been proud that we've been able to build the welfare state. We went from care to justice, from care to well-being, and managed to redeploy through taxation. The new government course breaks in many areas with this. Now there is a again-in-use need test. The disability benefit shall no longer be tested in the workplace and up to 1 G. Now it's going to be cut. At the moment they take work, it should be cut in social security. Older people who agreed that they would not pay for the items on the blue recipe last year, now listen again to pay for the items. It is sad to see this development that one takes away from those who have the least; now it needs to be tested. Once again, it's supposed to be such a system that you have to go with the hua in your fist and bukka for the social office and ask what you have the right to. The Prime Minister was very busy doing that, to be careful of Stortinget's side, and pointed out in several articles here today that the investment fee should be removed from 1 October this year. And everyone had to know that would be true when the Storting had said it. Then I'd like to ask, what's different? When the Storting has agreed that the assets of the blue recipe for the elderly and the disabled should be removed from 1 October of this year, why should it not be dangerous for those who are elderly and disabled? Why do they have a completely different system that one doesn't have to care about? It should be just as careful for those who are older and disabled – they should know what they have on the courts and what they get on the blue prescription – as it should be for the business community. Therefore, when a decision is taken on the part of the Storting, an equal respect for all must be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e849	I understand that the opposition needs to stand out in relation to a political debate. But I think it's a little funny that the Workers' Party places so much emphasis on presenting our labour market policy as unsocial and presenting it as if we were trying to sell the unemployed to get the state budget into port. It's not just misleading when you do it – it's positive wrong. In the draft budget, we are presenting a new labour market policy that takes unemployment seriously, which means that individual unemployed people will have a much closer follow-up than before, which invites constructive interaction between Aetate and private actors in getting people back to work, which provides more space for action than before and greater investment in workplaces in enterprises, and which makes the day-to-day payment system into what is meant, i.e. income protection in a jobseeker phase. This is not to balance the unemployed, it is to invest in the unemployed as a resource to be and should be returned to work. We are so lucky that unemployment in Norway is still much lower than in other European countries. Unfortunately, it is rising, and we must probably be prepared for it to continue to rise for months to come. At the same time, the labour market as a whole is tight, reflecting not least the strong wage growth this year. There is no shortage of jobs that is the reason why unemployment in Norway is increasing. Part of the reason is that those who become unemployed have different qualifications than those required for the job vacancies, and partly that the process of qualifying and disseminating people to job vacancies takes too long – and in comparison to many, it does not work at all. Experience from other countries in Europe shows that if we do nothing offensive to these problems, high unemployment becomes very easily a chronic phenomenon, even in a sea of job vacancies. It was one of the main reasons why the government parties in the Sem statement stressed that Aetat would develop into a qualification seat. Since then, our policies in the labour market have followed this line. We place great emphasis on the future of Aetat as a service provider for job seekers. Of course, it's supposed to give people a day's money and other financial support, but we don't have an Aetat primarily to pay money. We have an Aetat to help job seekers qualify for jobs and get back to work. We have, with great resistance from the opposition in Stortinget, implemented organisational changes that enable Aetat to meet this challenge. Aetat has been given new management to meet the challenges, and we are now asking the Stortingen to grant money to 220 new jobs for the personal follow-up of jobseekers in Aetat. At the same time, if Aetat is to be able to help the individual, it must also work closely with the private intermediaries responsible for commercial employment services in Norway. There is no contradiction between having a strong public Aetate and having private actors. These can do each of their jobs, and the unemployed need both. We're therefore suggesting that the agency cancel out distribution contracts for special groups to private intermediaries. In the first instance, we start an experiment with the dissemination of workers with disabilities in three counties and at the same time a contract-promoting scheme for government employees for waiting wages. We have more than 3,000 government employees on waiting pay today. They represent a highly valuable labour resource, and getting them into work is in itself an important part of the working line. At the same time, we must ensure that Aetat also develops a more demanding order role in relation to private and public providers of qualification programmes. It is not about spending the most money for action programmes anymore. It is about getting them as cheap as possible, and getting programmes that meet the needs of the jobseekers as best they can. In this respect, we believe that it is particularly important to get action on the premises rather than purely school-based training programmes. The goal is not to get the unemployed at school, the goal is to get them to work. Finally, we propose changes in the day-to-day pay system, which are important. The day-to-day payment system shall provide the unemployed with financial security, while encouraging the individual to obtain work. When we propose to reduce the maximum daily allowance period from three to two years, it is not to punish the unemployed. It's to make it clear both for the unemployed themselves and for the Aetat that two years is more than enough time to qualify people and get them back to work. It is unworthy for the unemployed that they can today go up to three years without actually having any personal follow-up at all. Reducing the daily allowance period from three to two years is also an important measure for Aetat and the authorities to take on board the fact that each unemployed person has the right to be followed up to return to work before two years have elapsed. If more than two years pass, all experience shows that one becomes more persistently inactive than qualified. We are also proposing other changes to the day-to-day arrangements. But the important thing is that the day-to-day arrangements themselves should oblige individuals and also oblige Aetate to follow-up – and that is to bet on the unemployed as a resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e874	Let me first say that of course I agree with the Norman state council's statement that Aetat will help people to work first and foremost. I agree. In fact, we believe that the current government has helped to weaken the ability of this agency to do a good job in that area, with what has happened in the current year. The Council of State is surprised that there are so strong reactions to the tightening up of the unemployment levy, while stressing that there should be a guarantee of income. Then it is inconceivable to ask the Council of State: Is it so that the Government and the Council of State Norman believes that unemployment is simply too good? Is it too lucrative? Is it too lucrative to have an income hedge that gives a 62,4 pst. of the income to live off when a person loses the job? I am a little upset by the way the Council of State refers to the unemployment penalty when he says that Aetat's purpose is not to be a budget for the payment of money. Aetat is responsible for paying out one of the important security factors embedded in Norwegian national security, namely that one should have a security of income when one loses work. Is it the government's logic that the less money you get when you're unemployed, the worse advice you have, the poorer you are, the harder it is to be free – the easier you get to work? Has it happened for a moment to this government that a unemployed person who doesn't get the unemployment allowance to go to the social office is actually going to have to go to the social office? Has it occurred to Norman that he may be moving one expense from one department to another?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e881	If we had proposed a reduction in the benefits of the daily allowance, I could understand this violent moral pathos. But that is not what we have proposed. We have proposed that the level of performance should be exactly as it has been. What we have proposed is that the maximum daily allowance should be reduced from three to two years. There is no reduction in performance. It's setting a higher target for how fast people are going to get into work. Then we have proposed that the waiting days before you get paid the day's allowance for the first time be increased from three to five days. It has almost no effect on those who are unemployed for a while, but it has a significant impact on those who are almost not available, i.e. unemployed for a little while. I agree that we would like to discuss that question. Can we find another discovery for it – great! There's no central point. Then we suggest that some groups who do not have a main anchor in the labour market and who have not had labour income as their main source of income, for which the day-to-day payment system was therefore never designed, should be removed. This applies, for example: school students and students who have worked on saying that they went to school and are now receiving a daily allowance while they are looking for their first job. They have never been meant to have unemployment benefits. To get these groups away, so that we have a day-to-day pay scheme that is tailored to those for whom the day-to-day pay system is designed, which makes it clear that this is income security in a job-seeker phase, that there is no lasting social security, is to protect the day-to-day pay system. It is to ensure that in the future we can continue to provide good benefits to those for whom the scheme is designed. That's a line I think we need to follow in all the work to preserve the welfare state in the future. So I fully share Solberg's moral pathos. That is precisely why we are proposing the changes we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e890	When the government joined last year, the hopes of the Minister of Labour and Administration were great. Finally, it was to be given a minister with a forward-looking perspective on the renewal and efficiency of the public sector. With an academic background that would give thought and ideas to a future-oriented public sector, something would finally happen. But what has happened? Unfortunately, it may seem that Norman has been sitting quite quietly in his office. He may have had a lot of good thoughts there, but we haven't seen any visible implementation. For example, what do we have? happened with digital certificates? If there is an innovation that can really increase the direct accessibility of the population to the public sector, this is it. With a digital certificate, it will be possible to send applications electronically and follow the progress process over the Internet. Digital certificates will increase public opportunities for efficient and rational processing. When are we going to get these? What has happened to the views of the public about effective electronic processing? When many public enterprises take paper copies of enquiries by e-mail and send them around in case files, this is a failure statement. What happens to the public’s transparency in public proceedings? When it is electronic, it is fully possible to open it up for transparency. We have not seen this done, and we have not heard that this will happen. Perhaps the Council of State has thought, but not figured out how to implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e897	Ida, he's both thinking about it, and we've come very far. But let me remind you of a few things. Firstly, electronic signatures are very important to get IT used correctly. At the same time, electronic signature is one of the most dangerous things in existence. Making sure that we can get a system that works well, but at the same time ensures the legal certainty of all the 4 1⁄2 million people who are to have rights in relation to the public is important, so the regulatory system around this might be the most important thing, and not the technical solutions. That regulation is in place. Some of the things that were shocking to discover when I came to the public were how short the ministry itself had come in relation to electronic files. It is now implemented in the next year. The general IT strategy – and that is, to the extent that a more general observation – results from what is the general modernisation strategy in general. The best modernisation minister sits quietly in his office, because I cannot modernise the public sector. On the other hand, the public sector can modernise itself if we give authority down the system, and that's the line we're following. That is why we can see many traces of our modernisation work, but fortunately, it is my fellow Councillors who can largely point to them, because they are being carried out in their areas down in their systems. What we can do centrally is to create conditions, create an infrastructure and make sure that as much as possible is determined centrally. This means, for example, to go back to electronic signature, that we have to provide a regulatory tool that allows you to choose the solutions to electronic signature in the individual floors that are most appropriate to the users you have. And then it's e.g. More importantly, in some contexts, the same solutions can be used by private banks than necessarily using the exact same solution that is used in other states.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e916	Hill-Martha Solberg has asked for the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e919	I have to say that this is absolutely necessary, because it must be based on a manifest misunderstanding when the Council of State claims that there is no reduction in the day-to-day arrangements. It is well known to read in the proposal submitted to Stortinget that the holiday supplement in the daily allowance scheme is discontinued. It means that, according to the proposition, an addition of 9.5 pst. It falls away. And if that's not a reduction, we need to know how it's going to affect the order of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e924	It is possible that I have misunderstood the representative of Solberg, but I am aware that I heard that she asked questions as to whether I thought that 62.4 p.m. The compensation was too much. We propose 62.4 pst. We are proposing the closure of the holiday supplement, and we propose it for several reasons. First, we suggest it because it's only a limited part of the daily allowance recipients who get some real pleasure out of it. Secondly, because almost everyone who receives a holiday supplement is paid long after they return to work. So it's not a guarantee of income while they're unemployed. And thirdly, we propose it because comparable groups, like, they have no equivalent system of vocational recruitment, and we find it grossly unfair and unfair that two different groups of unemployed persons should be treated differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e929	Then we go back to the line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e932	Modernisation of the public sector is one of the key points of the century. This modernisation is one of many that has thrown itself over with both zeal and interest, not least many municipalities. For many years, municipalities have taken the signals from different governments, and not least from the current government, to modernise the public sector, making it easier for citizens to deal with the different actors. For this reason, public service offices have been established in a number of municipalities. But what do you experience? One still experiences a country that is not only lukewarm and careful, but which is sometimes training and sabotaging the opportunities to get good solutions for its inhabitants. State Council Norman has previously said that the state should actively participate in this type of action. But it doesn't happen. And why doesn't that happen? Is it because you live here on a life lie that you think everything is good when it's not good at all? Is it because this government will build up state activities in the municipalities? Or is it that the Council of State is not dealing with its task, that it is too demanding to get the state agencies organized so that they do what the Government has asked for, that they do what the Council of State wants them to do? What is the reason why nothing is happening in this area? We meet frustrated rapporteurs who say that this is not possible, because the state agencies are training all attempts to get good arrangements for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e938	I have said in Stortinget in the past that if it is necessary to require states to help get good public service offices that are user-oriented and meet the needs of the inhabitants, then I will do so. We have also done so in specific cases. But I want to make it clear that it's about making good user-oriented solutions for the inhabitants, not good solutions for the municipalities. One of the issues we have is that many public service offices set up by municipalities aim to provide a complete collection of municipal services in one public service office. When Aetat, Social Security Office or Equations Office will then deal with this, the problem is that, at the same time, a group of good services should be provided to a limited group of users, and we cannot sit centrally and order them instead of getting a good solution across the workplace and social security offices, they must be inside a municipal service square or a municipal service office at any price. We need to encourage good local solutions that can be different in different places in the country. We find that there is good cooperation between Aetat, social security, social security, and some equal offices very many places in the country. In other places, clean municipal solutions have been chosen; in other places, government services have been selected. This year, we have provided financial support for experiments with different ways of organising the public service offices. What we have focused primarily on is bringing together work, social security and social services that are across levels of government and that are geared towards a limited group of users. We think that kind of collection is better than saying that all types of public enterprise should be over one disk. People largely manage in the private sector even though shaving, hairdressing and banking are not at the same level. The same is true in large parts of the public sector. On the other hand, the services needed should appear collectively. It's more important than collecting everything publicly at one disk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e946	In the Common Era, the Government claims that the aim is to exploit the great potential of Norway. This is something that everyone agrees on. However, there is a great difference between life and learning in this government. For example, let's look at the energy sector. In the last century, we used our enormous energy resources to build industry across the whole country. Many of the industrial sites we have today had not even existed without us having had plenty of access to power at a reasonable price. We have now enjoyed managing large oil and gas resources for the past 30 years. This too has led to major ring-effects, with industrial travel and value creation in many places in the country. So we've used our natural resources in a sensible way, to create jobs and growth and to create value. This is very good. But now this obviously isn't politically correct anymore. Let's just look at the power shortage in Norway today. In a normal year, between 6 and 7 TWh, we lack self-sufficiency – between 6 and 7 billion kWh. To put it all in perspective, this is equivalent to the amount of force from 14 Alta expansions. One would think that it should be impossible for an energy storm power such as Norway to manage itself in such a way. Today we produce nearly 3,000 TWh in terms of oil, gas and power, and we only use 6-7 pst. of this itself. The size has opened up to use some of our gas resources for power generation, but we see that the government is working on the most incredible curve jumps to stop this. In addition, a separate national emission allowance scheme has been adopted by the Government, contributing to further uncertainty about the profitability of using gas for power generation. What's important about our power generation is today based on hydropower. There is still a high potential for further power deployments where this does not have a significant environmental impact. In addition, we can get a lot of power by upgrading and expanding existing facilities. The size has dealt with several hydropower development cases in recent years, with a rather discouraging result. In the treatment of the Upper Eighth watercourse, there was finally half an expansion, and in Salt Mountain Black there was no expansion at all. The size will soon develop the Sauda watercourse, which can improve the power balance by 1 TWh. But the signals from the Government so far have been anything but uplifting. The difference in supply and demand for power is increasing every year. The government is facing this challenge of defrauding billions of taxpayers' money into subsidising windmills and other airlocks, which in no way mate in this context. We all know that when there is a lack of a product in an open market, this has an impact on the price. Of course, this also applies to the electricity price. When there is a lack of power, the prices are rising, and the electricity bill is increasing sharply for most people. This is mainly due to the political paralysis shown in energy policy by both the Government and the majority of the population. And not enough: the high electricity charges also contribute to a further deterioration in the electricity bill for people. And now, of course, the government has brought an increase in the electricity charge in its budget proposal. Unfortunately, the government's talk about exploiting our great opportunities seems to be just talking. Today, only the Progress Party will use something more of our enormous energy resources to ensure that the Norwegian people and the Norwegian business community get enough power and a power bill to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e965	I woke up this morning from the following news: I heard that the leader of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, could tell us that the opposition at Stortinget was just out to create conflicts. And then I heard that Oslo Sporveier is going to put down 1/3 of the tramlines in town. It was – to say it carefully – a bad start to the day. I do not think it is problematic that there are conflicts in politics – rather the opposite. It could be healthy, it could be clarifying. The parliamentary situation we have today is perhaps not primarily marked by conflicts, but by quarrels and root causes, and if we are to follow Norwegian policies, we should have the whole day at our disposal and a little more than that. One of the things that makes it difficult to follow is that you often experience that there is one thing being said, and then it does something completely different. I intend to use two environmental policy examples to illustrate this, and to look at some main features. The government says that it rates public transport – the Prime Minister repeated it at the latest today. At the same time as public transport is being invested, collective travellers will experience a lower level of supply next year: bus lines will be laid down, it will be paved over tram tracks, and the prices of public transport will increase. According to the leaks before the government budget was presented, public transport was a budget win. 350 million. kr would get Oslo Sporveier. And when the press release came, the Minister of Transport repeated the same thing. The problem with that money was that they were just in the press release and not in the state budget. In the budget, there were 100 million. kr to Oslo Sporveier. To make it sound good, you put the 250 million. tolled by Oslo's own politicians, for the most part, who have been adopted for public transport. People in Oslo and people in other big cities are dependent on good public transport. For the environment in the big city, public transport may be the most important thing, and that is the backbone of our transport system. Without a public traffic we drown in pollution here in the city. To illustrate just how important the T-Bahn is: if we had put down the T-Bahn between Tøen and Majorstuen, we must have replaced that traffic with a 12-field highway. Yesterday, however, Oslo Sporveier adopted a cutting package: 75 million. kr shall be saved and mainly done by taking one third of the tramlines in the city. At the same time, several bus lines are also set, and tracks should start later in the morning and stop driving earlier in the evening. People in the capital will experience a worse offer next year. The Oslo people are happy about their trick. In exchange for a bus trip in Trondheimswegen, it means to us who live there, increased pollution and a worse offer. The Christian People's Party opted for all public transport in the country to be 25 pst. cheaper. Left has a proud story as an environmental party. I hope they can't sit and see that one third of the tramlines in Oslo are asphalted again. But public transport is also being starved on a national basis. The major cities in Europe have an average grant share of 50 pst. in relation to the ticket. In Oslo, which has the highest grant rate in Norway, it is 30 pst. The systematic starvation of public transport makes the supply worse. In the draft budget, there is no more krone for the operation of public transport. Nor does the railway see bright times in meeting if the investments in infrastructure are to continue at the level we have today. For 2003, it is simply summarised so that we have one plant, and that is Skøyen–Asker. There's nothing to say on that priority, it's true that we're going to spend the money there, but there's almost nothing else happening. Of the 1.2 billion that are to be invested, 900 million are to be invested. kr there, so more there's no room left. Railway investments are after two years of the current national transport plan 1,2 billion kroner. That means that those who dreamed of a double track to Ski have to shoot a white stick after that. Let's look at what we've done in the Oslo area in the last 20 years: we've built 25 new lanes. 25 lanes for the car to the city have been built in 20 years, while the speed to the city has not increased. Traffic goes at exactly the same speed. So we haven't managed to make the queues shorter, we've only managed to make the queues wider than they were 20 years ago. If we're going to solve the rush-time traffic so that business transport also has a chance in Oslo, we have to bet collectively in a completely different way than what we see. Then we must not wait until 2015 for a double track to Ski. Not even a simple upgrade of the Ski Station can afford next year. Those who dreamed of double tracks on the Westfold course may have to think by 2020. The Eidanger Tunnel, which is highly wanted in Telemark, can only be dreamed of, and in the case of SV's old dream of the Ringeriks Railway, you might think 2030, or once after that. If today's level of investment continues, the national transport plan is not worth the paper on which it is written in relation to railway investment, and so the maturity occurs at the same time as the rest of Europe rates. But we've spent a lot of money on this sector in the last two years. When we cut the fuel tax by 2 kroner, it cost 3 billion kroner over the state budget. So 6 billion kroner in two years we have improved the competitiveness of the car in relation to public transport. It's the big use of money. We have to realize that the 100 million. kr extra for public transport is not in the vicinity of weighing up the competitive situation that the car has been satisfied with over the last two years. The government says that new renewable energy sources are being set. Although it says so, there's not a penny more in the budget for new renewable energy sources this time, while what has happened is that we have reduced the electricity charge. In two years, electricity, heating at panel furnaces, has improved its competitive position towards bioenergy and other new renewable energy sources by DKK 2 billion. It'll cost you. We need to invest for four years in new renewable energy sources before we reach the same level. Once again, we see that you say that you're betting on one thing, while the big money is moving in a completely different direction. And if there's anything the government has really spent money on in the last period, it's expanding the Snow White field. We spend over 40 billion dollars there. EUR 2 billion is tax subsidies – only that alone is more than what we are going to invest in new renewable energy sources throughout this period. Can we not then say it this way when we summarize what has happened: we have invested in cheap petrol, we have invested in cheaper electricity. It will give a more accurate picture of what the Government and the majority in this Chamber have invested in the last two years than what we hear, that we should invest in public transport, and that we should invest in new renewable energy sources. I think the biggest problem that arises is that we create contempt for politicians by not being able to be close to these promises, with the gap between what is said and the people who are taking the trick, who want a better collective offer, who are trying to create businesses in new renewable energy sources, experience in everyday life. You can repeat until you get blue in your head that you bet collectively. But when the traction lines are asphalted in Oslo, it's hard to see that this is a bet, and people won't experience that bet either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e993	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e996	I very much agree with the representative Sørensen on the description of the drama that is taking place in Oslo today. It is a drama that can easily become a scenario for other major cities, because only half-way you take responsibility for public transport and not entirely. Then you're left with those who are going to deal with reality, and that leads to a significant closure, not only of tram lines, but also of the bus offer, and a reduction in the offer on the T-Bahn. In addition, the rate will be increased by more than the price increase, which means that people will have to pay more for a worse offer, after what is now decided. However, I will focus on something else, and it concerns the consequences of what the Government has now committed in terms of appropriations in relation to the national transport plan. When the national transport plan was adopted, it may have been historic. There were many expectations created. With the two budgets we have for the current year, and what comes next year, the national transport plan has become history. It's dramatic. This also means that in the opposition we have to think about how to deal with the economic framework that is gradually being allocated. My question to Sørensen is therefore: has SV carried out some assessments of which road projects they wish to prioritise within a smaller framework than was foreseen in the national transport plan? My other question relates to the Ringeriksbahn, which the representative was inside the post. We're also for the Ringerix Railway. It's maybe a be or not for Bergensbanen's future. But there's a problem with the trasé choice, and my question is: Has SV decided for a trasé choice that ensures that the new Ringeriksbanen also facilitates that we get a ring road around the Oslo region, so that we can get a significantly better collective offer that covers this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1005	Bjørgov Froyn says something that's absolutely right: we're going to get a more expensive offer, and it's worse. When it comes to the issues of whether we can do some re-priorities from the way to the path, we're working on it and, as far as we can, we're going to put it in our alternative budget. But there are some candidates who are a little ahead of time, and we should now say that we have to give up – and I think that is important in order to take public transport in Oslo seriously. These include: the construction of 10-field E18 to Asker. It is a pointless project that will generate so much pollution into this city that it will have to take enormous measures to compensate it. There's nothing environmentally friendly about being in six fields today and contaminating, but if you build ten fields, and we're going to be standing here in ten years and discussing whether we're going to have an extension from ten to sixteen, then we've just made things worse. We need to see that we can't build ourselves out of the transport problems we have, especially related to rush time. We have to bet collectively. In the case of the Ringerix course, we have not taken a stand for the trajectory, and I look forward to an exciting treatment in relation to what is going on to get the best possible course, but there is no doubt that both my heart and many other hearts are beating hard for that trajectory. I also think the representative is right that it will be a be or not for the Bergensbanen. The drama that takes place in Oslo is, as Bjørgov Froyn quite rightly says, very dramatic when the core task of having a pleasant city – as we responsible, have to take over – is a proper collective system. If we cannot deliver a proper collective system to the citizens of Oslo, we have failed one of our most serious core tasks. And now when you're discussing paving strips and putting down bus routes, it's going backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1017	There was a rather sad presentation of Heidi Sørensen had in his post. She spoke correctly about that she had had some dreams, but it was obvious that none of the dreams had come true. I think we can agree on one thing: we would all have liked to have been able to bet more on both public transport and on the road. Now the government – and I fully agree with that assessment – has said that we need to make sure that we get the competitive industry up and that it has to be priority one. Then there's something you've had to cut down on. But is it that the representative Sørensen believes that the car should not be given the opportunity to live any longer, or that it should at least be more expensive; that the prices of petrol should rise, and we should not expand any more electricity, because we expect people to suddenly use much less – at least we should set up the prices of electricity so that we no longer have cheap electricity? My last question is: When we have had a democratic process in relation to Snow White, is it not that both Heidi Sørensen and I confess to a democratic system and accept that a majority has decided that Snow White is good for Finnmark, that it is good for our gas and oil business, and that we must therefore end it now, once it is decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1026	It surprises me that the representative from the Right view I have given a sad presentation of the last two years. I thought it was a jubilation from the Right's point of view. The gas has become cheaper, the electricity has become cheaper, and then we have invested less on the right-hand side of what has rarely been involved, public transport and new renewable energy sources. I thought the Right Jubilee over it. Have you not been the drivers of this policy? So to the question of whether it should be more expensive petrol today. Yes, if we're going to solve the infrastructure problems we're facing, I think that's right. I can't believe that in the world's richest country, which has the third cheapest petrol in Europe calculated against standard of living costs, we should not take that choice and say yes to slightly more expensive petrol, and then we can afford a decent – and I mean a decent – collective offer. If you're wondering who's hit hardest, we've just got the travel survey. Those who drive the most in Norway live in Eastfold, Akershus, Buskerud and Telemark. These are the big commuting counties in Norway. Those who drive at least a car live here. It's okay. But those who drive the second least car live in Finnmark, and those who come to the place after there live in Troms. Then comes Nordland, Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal. So yes, I dare stand for it. If you have been a second in doubt that I think the electricity consumption charge is too low, that is also correct. It would have been right for Norway to have a consumption tax that was on average the average of what the other Nordic countries had. Then we might have had the courage to change our energy policy. To Snow White. The billion-dollar sluice is subsidized pollution and destruction, and no collapse decision can change my perception of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1039	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1042	In my opinion, this year's debate on the throne has been marked by strong vocabulary applied to the details of the cooperation government's policy, much more than constructive input into what can provide political majority solutions for the next year and the years that follow. To a large extent, the Storing Chair has been used as the Tabloid reserve speaker’s chair. Descriptions have gone through the air, the approximates have been many and the caricatures are widespread. Not least this has been applied to the Christian People's Party. Where there's obviously no reality to come up with, the problems you see are constructed in relation to which you argue. The Legal Spokesperson of the Workers' Party made that statement. Based on her own interpretations and conclusions, she presents it as if the Christian People's Party disagreed that: ‘Prevention of crime starts with a good family policy, good kindergartens, an inspiring and inclusive school, school leisure arrangements, good leisure activities and good measures for children and young people with special needs.’ Of course, we don't disagree with this, because this is part of the core of our value base. Yes, I hardly think anyone in Stortinget disagrees with all these descriptions of goodies. But the disagreement arises in relation to how we achieve the goal. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that a good family policy consists, among other things, of: facilitating family choices. We don't believe in one-sidedness and A4 solutions for everyone. The parental right is important. Therefore, we make provision for those who want it to be able to choose kindergarten for the children, while those who prefer something else can choose cash support. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that good measures for children and young people can be organised through public offerings, but we know that the same can be done by private and non-governmental organisations. That is why we support and stimulate Freedom Norway. I am not surprised that the SV parliamentary leader does not want a charity society where there are many who have to go hand in hand and ask for help. Neither do we in the Christian People's Party. That's why we've agreed on systems and arrangements that are just about to prevent this. The distribution policy has a target set that is socially sound and more accurate. And if it turns out that we're bomming something on the goal, yes, we're of course willing to adjust the hit security. According to the representative Kukkestad of the Progress Party, it is the level of alcohol that creates a breeding ground for smuggling and violations of the law. Yes, Kukkestad further unfolded this so that lack of respect for the alcohol law spread to other laws and disdain among people in relation to complying with them. The logic and content of the reasoning should be left to me, but I would like to stress that the desire of the Progress Party for the free flow of alcohol seems to be an overall objective in relation to both social and judicial policies. This Christian People's Party will never be in it. All experience and research shows that increased availability increases use. Session usage gives you session abuse. Increased abuse has greater adverse effects. Alcohol policy is therefore something far more and different than smuggling, home burning and border trade. It is a public health perspective and a social policy with a primary focus on children and young people in society. Every day, about one million people suffer. 200,000 children and young people in Norway due to the use of drugs by parents or close relatives. It in itself is tragic and unworthy. Then we know that of these children will be 60-80 pst. will develop an abuse even if they do not receive the necessary help. Therefore, it is important that they are discovered, that they are seen, and that they are given the necessary help. I could therefore imagine that a system of social teachers or a social person could discover, see, be close and give help to the child and to the home was already in place in high school. I am also sorry – forgiveness, President, that use of words may not be very well chosen. I am also little enthusiastic about the attitude towards both opening hours and prices expressed by the candidates to the Vice-Chair of the Workers' Party in the debate that was held last summer. Is the Workers' Party also going to lay down on the line that the Advance Party is following? Finally, through the State budget, the Government clearly states that it will intensify its efforts to ensure that Norway is a legal state for all. A concrete measure to ensure equal treatment is the strengthening of interpreter training. That's why it's important that this happens, so that everyone, including those who are not ethnic Northmen of birth, can get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1065	The President can reassure the representative that how serious the word is is, is strongly dependent on who says it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1068	For us in the Workers' Party, it is a good motto that one should not distribute the values until they are created. That is why employment is so important, and it is therefore so important to have a good industrial policy. When someone needs the labour force, and when business makes money, we create common values. However, there is now a dramatic situation in the sense that business has problems. The Labour Party therefore believes that having a policy for lower interest rates and a krone that is not as strong as today is the best thing for industry – a commitment we must also include in our budgetary work. But in addition, we believe that one must work for a solidarity alternative where the social partners and the Government commit themselves to action to improve the competitive situation of business. Because it is very dramatic when, in a very recent report, the Central Statistical Office says that 75 000 industrial workplaces are at risk. The report is commissioned by the National Association of Process Industries and tells us that we need to get control of the cost level and value of the Norwegian krona. In addition, we need to develop new industries and new industries. To do so, the active player is needed. We have a good tradition and have achieved good results when private and public authorities work together to create new businesses. I have seen that Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen has said that he will not be a minister who sews cushions under the arms of business. At the same time, he was asked at the NHO conference this year how to contribute to the survival of business. Then the answer was that he should not stand in the way. It's almost as if you'd like to ask, what's the Bondevik government going to do with a Minister of Industry? In particular, when one sees how this results in practical policies for the current year: cutting research and development grants through the SND, cutting development grants and programme activities, cutting municipal start-up grants, cutting farm and industrial development in the districts, and not least cutting municipal food funds. All these cuts could, in the view of the Workers' Party, contribute to new industries and the active development and renewal of existing activities. The furniture manufacturer Ekores constantly points out that his company had not existed if he had not received public assistance in a difficult situation. I wish he could get a pass on such thinking in the Right Central Government, where he is a member. It becomes too easy to say that the market should be alone and alone. The policy becomes well visible when the Government in its next year’s draft budget says that unemployment will increase and investment will decrease. There are daily serious signals from all over the country that competitive business is struggling. We hear about the closure of production, the deflagration of jobs, the lay-offs and increased unemployment. This is the state of the kingdom. Steps are then required to reverse the course. Or is it this course the government Bondevik thinks is right? In addition, when the Government proposes to weaken the day-to-day arrangements and shift the bill of pay during leave to employers, it testifies to the right-wing policy being pursued here. The responsibility for the state of the kingdom not only affects the government of Bondevik, but also the Progress Party, which according to the leader, Carl I. Hagen, is the basis of this government. The Labour Party sees that there is a Right-wing policy, and the Bondevik government cannot expect us to support this course. 52 answers to 52 questions from the Progress Party, as well as the fact that the Advance Party is both a birth aid and a basis for the Government, obliges the Prime Minister of the Christian People's Party, whether he likes it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1098	There are not a few problems that some politicians have over time tried to get out of. But it's not just raising the frames, clapping on the chest and believing you've done a good job, not even with different welfare arrangements. What you've really done is make sure everyone gets a little bit. What you haven't done is take into account that all so-called groups are made up of different individuals with different needs. Our welfare systems are based on solutions that include everyone or most. It is a paradox that, despite our extensive welfare and support systems, there are some who fall through the system. Therefore, it has been important for the Co-operation Government to change today's social policy so that those who need it most are given the necessary help and support. Letting the different schemes out and covering more and more, without taking into account the practical consequences, is also about a lack of willingness to give priority. In order to combat poverty in Norway, this government has promoted a number of proposals that show that we are doing our best to prioritise. We don't want to hand out gifts to those who could manage well without, at the expense of those who could gain an increased quality of life and a worthwhile life by getting something more. It is good cohesion policy that most of us refrain from some welfare schemes to finance measures against poverty. The conversion of the gravitational aid is previously mentioned as one example in the debate. Today's pointless system, by giving all the survivors of Norway $4,000 in funeral grants, is being removed, while those who do not have the means to give their loved ones a dignified funeral, with the government's proposal, can receive $15,000 in support. Another example is the support schemes for high school students. There will be a conversion of the current system and an increase of 50 million. kr, ensure that pupils from families with low finances receive increased scholarships. This means that children with limited financial resources include: can own their own books, like any other. Combating poverty with, inter alia: more targeted instruments are those who try to associate with past expressions such as ‘very needy’ and ‘standing in hand’. But in reality, it's the exact opposite. It's with today's system it's visible who's falling through. Today, it is difficult to say that it is not possible, when everyone knows that Norway is at the top of the world in terms of the number of welfare goods and the proportion of the population covered by it. Today, those who have to seek extra help have to expand their lives in a public office, which could have been avoided for many by more targeted measures. Work is the safest way out of poverty. This is why the Government is putting forward a series of measures to help people get out of work and change systems that make people lose their jobs. This has obviously fallen many heavily for the chest. In particular, changes in aid to disabled people, which was promoted in June, have led to strong reactions. I am surprised that someone thinks it is wrong that it should pay to work rather than receive public support. Today, one who has a disability pension and earns 60 000 kroner next to it, is left with 10000 kroner less than one who is unemployed and earns 50,000 kroner. This is why the Government has proposed changes so that the disability does not lose money to work even if the social security is reduced. It's always going to pay to work, and it's always going to pay to work more. Similarly, the possibility of earning up to 1 G is removed without being cut off in social security. You're 100 pst. You can't work. If you can work 1⁄4 position, it should of course lead to reduced social security. It's never been accepted by most people to have 100 pst. state benefits at the same time as being able to work side by side. Moreover, it is gratifying that among the proposals for a change in disability pension, there is a change in the state budget that benefits working women. To date, poor assessment and measurement of disability pensions for part-time workers has also been assessed in relation to the ability to do domestic work. This rule has been applied in practice only to women and has been perceived as discriminatory. This rule will now be removed. Changes and re-priorities in welfare systems and social policy are not an easy matter to face. The most pleasant thing for a government would perhaps be to let it scour and go as before and rather put in a little extra funds when an acute need arises. For changes, there are persistent protests. However, when families with children live in poverty and social welfare schemes act as a barrier to work, no responsible government can fail to make a change in the course of welfare policy. This government has started that change of course. People should get solutions based on being individuals. It's going to pay off to work, and those who need it the most are going to get the most help. It's possible not everyone likes all the changes, but we have to remember that social policy should not be charity, but help for self-help.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1117	Lottomillionaires are not like other millionaires. This slogan has now also been confirmed by the Prime Minister. And why did he use this slogan? Well, to confirm that Norway's oil revenues are some sort of lottery revenue. I find it tragic that the country's prime minister is of the opinion that the country's oil revenues are some sort of lottery revenue. As an information to the Prime Minister, lotto is a game where you bet money, and how the odds of becoming a millionaire mildly said is very, very low. Providing an oil fund is not a game, but nine-time and planned work where it is reasonably certain that it will be a win. Of course, the amount of this prize every year is uncertain. Then the Prime Minister says in his speech that there are two types of lottomillionaires, the one who immediately takes up the million prize – and it's supposed to symbolize the Progress Party, and the other millionaire who puts the money in the bank and takes out the profits, which the Prime Minister says he's using to clean up the house, which clearly symbolizes the integrity and long-termity of the Christian People's Party. Of course, the comparison is taken out of context. I'll try to put it back in its context. If I was so lucky enough to be a lottobillionaire this year, I would – and I think it's true for the whole of the Progress Party group too – very likely follow the Prime Minister's advice, simply fine because it makes sense when you know that you're going to be a lottobillionaire just once. But if we had known that this lottomillion came every year for 20 years in the future, like oil revenues, the situation would be completely different. We in the Progress Party would help with money so that the house of our parents was cleaned up. We would help buy expensive medicines for our parents, after Christian People's Party, Right and Left introduced peculiarities. We would speculate on the welfare of our parents so that the state's theft, the coordination of pensioners – blessed by the Christian People's Party, Right and Left – would not be noticed so well. We would speculate on social security so that the underregulation of social security that the government has been doing for many years was balanced with our annual lottomillions. We would simply have helped so that our parents, the older generation that has built this country, had a worthy old age. And when that day comes to all of us when one of our parents goes away, we would have helped pay the tomb, after the state, with its huge annual oil revenues, has unfortunately removed the tomb support as well. We would help our children to buy a roadworthy car to transport our grandchildren to and from kindergarten or football training, because, as the Prime Minister knows for sure, the cost of establishing themselves for a young family is formidable. I only mention 2.5 pst. the document fee to the State. And if my children are going to be able to afford to secure my grandchildren in a roadworthy car, I'll have to guess a little bit each year as a lottomionaire, so that the government gets in their hurt car charges. This is how the representatives of the Progress Party would use their annual lottomillions. For the representatives of the Progress Party, they are able to have two thoughts in their heads at the same time. Because they can think about their next, but they don't forget those who created the well-being that we enjoy. The representatives of the Progress Party care about injustice, but not just about the injustice that happens abroad. We care first and foremost about the injustice that happens in this country, those who have the least in Norway, those who can't afford drugs, those who are in a nursing home and who are not allowed to stay up until noon. 14 a.m., those who have the least, the poor, those who freeze because the electricity charge to the state ensures that the electricity price is sky high. Then all we have to do in the Progress Party is accept that the Prime Minister of the Christian People's Party, on behalf of the Government, will not use his lotteries for anything but to maintain his own house. It's called priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1138	For its part, the President would say that the characterisation of schemes adopted by the Storting for state ‘theft’ is to show contempt for the decisions of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1141	This year's census is the Bondevik government's document, full and complete. Elections are given notice of a different political course from that of the Labour Party, but the people asked for changes in the last elections. Mr Bondevik I and Mr Bondevik II differ greatly. Both the Sem Declaration and the practical policy we see bear witness to a sharp turn of the right. Bondevik I was a government that blond to both sides, partly with luck. Bondevik II, based on the Sem Declaration plus the 52 questions of the Progress Party, is built over another reading. Imageful, so far out in the debate, it reminds me most of one who wears too many shoes. Genital ulcers can quickly lead to a blister, and it can be painful enough, and it's not so easy to get on either if you're going to put your feet in the FrP calosanes. I'm not sure that's the course we're seeing now, the people out there were watching for themselves. Not even the vocabulary of the Christian People's Party cheers. Many, on the other hand, take the magazine from their mouths and are concerned about whether the municipalities are getting enough money for the tasks they all have: good care for the elderly, good public schools and promises to small children’s families, linking them to kindergarten and SFO. And as if it wasn't enough for the municipalities to reduce the transfers, it says in the Common Era: ‘In order to simplify and renew the public sector, the Government will delegate responsibilities and powers within the State and decentralise tasks to the municipalities.’ and ‘It requires a commitment to political renewal. The government will strengthen the fight against poverty, at home and out. ... The government will renew and strengthen district policy.’ It's just that those who struggle to cope with the big thing have put on them don't understand the medicine that's been prescribed and that ends up in smaller transfers. In my political mind, the throne language gives a hidden image of a powerful right twist. And then the differences have to increase, that's the ideology. Hagen's birth assistant argues about the use of more oil money. He has stated that he is the basis of the sitting government. The party of progress is sweeping around like free-fants and promises in the east and west. It looks like they've got to say everything that people want to do to the right. Is it strange that the polls go up in that camp? We all have our wishes, but they should go into practice, not just on paper. Transport from all sides has been seen as a good district and industrial policy. In the languages of the throne, it is so much called, and in the Sem declaration, which is the basis of this government, it is referred to as one of the most important things this government would really invest in. Tuesday's release of the Evening Post was such a bad idea. National transport plan is buried there, and the parliamentary leader in Right does not use the same capital letters as he did before. But tax relief is, in all respects, for those who can eat more than saturated. The bill will be sent to those who have the least to contribute, the unemployed, the disadvantaged, and those who could contribute a little, but who have been cut off by the Minister of Social Affairs. That's the society we're going to get in the political direction that the clear-cut language expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1171	Since environmental policy is also very important from a generational point of view, I must say that the perspective taken by the representative Svendsen in relation to the petroleum industry is not entirely within such a time frame. We now have a petroleum fortune in Norway at approx. $600 billion that is inserted into the oil fund. Then we have future pension liabilities of NOK 3,400 billion to secure our pension rights. So that's not what we've done so far, that's enough for this either. But the image the Prime Minister used earlier today was very good. He actually said that we can use the return that comes from this oil fund instead of eating up the fund that is also going to help secure the pensions. It's the difference between the lottomiiller who spends all the money right away and adds to the costs that he can't cover, and the person who uses the returns, the interest income, and so can both secure his own family and perhaps help others. This is actually a good perspective on what is also a long-term and sustainable economic policy. It leads me to the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, where the generational perspective was important, and where we also took a step forward in the fight against global poverty and environmental degradation. Although we also experienced disappointments, for example: in the field of energy, we received positive decisions in a number of areas to be followed nationally and in international environmental cooperation. There is close coherence and interdependence between the environmental work we do at home and outside. Prior to the summit, Norway worked to make the world community more ambitious on environmental obligations. Now is the time to translate the Johannesburg action plan from word to practice. After the declaration by the Russian Prime Minister in Johannesburg, and also our own Prime Minister's conversation with Kasianov, there is reason to hope that the Kyoto Protocol will come into force in the near future. It will be an important milestone in international action against climate change. However, the global community has long returned to the objective of the UNFCCC to avoid a dangerous anthropogenic impact on the climate. Norway shall be a driver of a more ambitious global climate agreement with stricter and more comprehensive emissions obligations beyond 2012. At the forthcoming meeting of the Parties in New Delhi at the end of October, we will be actively working towards the early start of such negotiations, with a view to getting the largest possible country that is currently outside the protocol. A more ambitious global climate agreement must include the US and developing countries with relatively large emissions and strong emissions growth. The government is implementing a more offensive national climate policy. In the Supplementary Communication, we announced an early national quota system from 2005 and other measures that will help Norway demonstrate demonstrable progress before 2008. Work is under way on a proposal for the design and legalisation of the quota system. Norway also worked in Johannesburg for a more stringent chemical policy and agreed to minimise the use and production of health and environmentally harmful chemicals by 2020. This is important for developing countries, but also for Norway — not least in the northern regions. The main sources of pollution in the northern regions are long-distance transport pollution. Known pollutants, such as PCBs, come from all over the world and provide worrying concentrations in a particularly vulnerable environment. Therefore, it is in Norway’s interest to work actively to strengthen international chemicals agreements. The government will pursue a more active chemicals policy with a focus on halting the emissions of the most dangerous chemicals — the pollutants — and reducing the risks associated with the use of other chemicals. The Government's objective is to significantly reduce, or stop, the emissions of priority chemicals by 2005 and 2010 respectively. Emissions of all pollutants shall be stopped by 2020. The objective of a significant reduction in biodiversity loss was also agreed in Johannesburg by 2010. It is important to reduce the loss of rainforest, which is the habitat of many endangered species. But we also have endangered species of animals and plants in Norway, in which we have both a national self-interest and an international responsibility to provide greater protection. Norway has been and will continue to be a driver of international environmental agreements and environmental obligatory cooperation. Of course, such a driving role requires that we take care of our own environment and find solutions to our home environmental challenges. This is also why the Co-operation Government wants to revitalise Norwegian environmental policy, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1197	Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Environment have today presented the results of the Johannesburg Summit. Fortunately, the result was better than we could fear, but still far from good enough. This is not due to a lack of Norwegian efforts, and there was considerable support in relation to the strong demands made in Johannesburg. But now the challenges are to sweep at your own door and follow-up here at home in Norway. Because if we're going to show that we were serious about the demands that were made in Johannesburg, we have to do even more at home. Then I heard the Environment Minister say that now we're going to go from talking to practice. It is also absolutely necessary, because we cannot base our environmental policies on big words on travel abroad and little action here at home. So far, everything's good. But then we come to the concrete proposals. The government's draft budget does not bear the impression that the government is following up with measures. On the contrary, it is cut in several important areas. I mention e.g. local environmental work. A short time ago, we dealt with the climate announcement in Stortinget. There, the Labour Party, together with several parties, had a wide range of proposals, not least concerning new renewable energy and renewable energy, which could have contributed to an improvement for the environment. This was opposed by the government parties. It was e.g. support schemes for companies and houses for water and airborne heating, it was biofuels, it was hydrogen, it was energy recovery, etc. So my question to the Environment Minister is, When will the Government follow up on the home track the great and fine words that were said in Johannesburg and elsewhere around the world? And in concrete terms, where does the plan of 15 pst go? renewable energy, which we demanded in Johannesburg, and 10 pst. new renewable energy? Where's it coming from, and when is it coming? So far we have seen little concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1206	First, I would like to stress that the environmental challenges are international in character. Much of what we disagree with in Norway is pollution that comes across our country from other countries. That is why it is so crucial for us in Norway to conclude binding international environmental agreements. That's why we also put great emphasis on this in Johannesburg. Of course, the government is prepared to follow up all the commitments made by countries in Johannesburg. The problem was that you didn't go far enough. In the key areas, there is no challenge for Norway, because we are quite good at the environment in relation to what was decided in Johannesburg. But what Mr Brustad is addressing is how we're going to go further in Norway to go ahead as a good example and come up with a policy that is in line with what we want as global and international environmental commitments. This work is well done by the Government. We're concerned with biodiversity, reducing the dramatic losses that happen internationally. In the budget presented by the Government, we are doubling the investment in national parks and new areas of protection in Norway compared to what is currently in the current year's budget. We get more new national parks for next year and new nature reserves. During the fall, the Government will also promote a coastal protection plan for Northern Ireland, so that we also start to protect nature types other than mountain areas. We come up with a follow-up to the Stortinge Climate Communication, with a separate proposition about the national quota system. The Minister of Oil and Energy will promote a gas notification during the autumn, which addresses many of the issues that are important in relation to climate policy and which are also important in terms of increasing the use of renewable energy in Norway. Now we in Norway are very lucky with renewable energy, because we use 99 pst. renewable energy in relation to the target of 15 pst. so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1219	The Minister for the Environment was faithful to international so-called environmental protection policies and little of what people are most concerned about here in the country, namely to have an open-air policy — and to have a balanced open-air policy. Like the rest of what happens in society, outdoor life is also changing. There are mainly two types of outdoor life. You have what's going on on on foot, and then you have the motorized open-air life. Motorized outdoors have long traditions here to land. I think of boat traffic along the coast, and also after each use of boat on rivers and water in the inland. Motorised outdoor life on land is based on the use of snowmobiles. In Sweden and Finland, the authorities have thus facilitated the use of snowmobiles through a continuous loop network, and the tourism industry is thus serving billions of outdoors. In Norway, the authorities are very restrictive in setting up new loops, and unfortunately, the result is a lot of illegal driving and frustration for snowmobile users. Will the Council of State take on board the fact that outdoor life is changing, and will the municipalities themselves be able to decide and facilitate the creation of their own separate open-air life loops? It is a proposal that the Progress Party has promoted many times in this Chamber, and unfortunately has been voted down, also by the Right after the Right came into the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1231	First, I want to say to the representative that my impression is that the Nordics are very concerned also with international environmental issues. When the Sellafield plant in the United Kingdom runs out of radioactive waste, which we then notice along our entire coast, the Nordics are concerned with international environmental issues. We are concerned that in our northern regions we see that we have strong air pollution with harmful pollutants. Now, in North Norway, an adult man can eat only one seagull a year, because they're so stacked with environmental toxins that you have dietary restrictions attached to this. Nine out of ten Nordics believe that outdoor life is the most preventive health work. People are happy to get out in Norway, in the fields, you are happy to use the mountains, you are also happy to use our beaches. That is why the Government's budget has put more effort into outdoors to facilitate it. In fact, we have also seen some frightening examples of the use of vehicles in the field. I do not know if the representative has come to realize that in Finnmark they are now struggling with a lot of bareland driving, so that important open-air areas are destroyed for many generations, and this is not good. In the case of snowmobiles, it is fully possible to drive snowmobiles today, in Norway, if you have permission, and if you need it for transport to your cabin and in other contexts. But pure pleasure driving, which the Progress Party wants to have freely ahead, is obviously the only environmental issue of the Progress Party at the moment – that is what is being addressed. A little poor I think it's just to focus on it with snowmobiles, I have to admit that. We don't want to be free there. We're not going to drive around in the national parks with snowmobiles. You must be able to walk a ski trip without being driven down by snowmobiles. But it's already a very loopy network, for example. in Finnmark, with many tens of miles where you can run snowmobiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1240	The Minister for the Environment has made an excellent effort in the international arena, most recently at the UN conference in Johannesburg, when the Council of State worked for a target of 10 p.m. new renewable energy would be the target by 2010, i.e. a target that would result in increased investment in wind turbines, biofuels and, for example, in renewable energy. solar energy. Remarkably, the Minister for the Environment at the Johannesburg Conference appeared to be far more offensive than both the Minister for Oil and Energy of the Christian People's Party and Prime Minister at home. The speech of the throne was commendable enough with respect to the environment. The more disappointing it became to hear the financial speech of Børge Brende's party trap, Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss. It is no exaggeration to say that environmental measures had a rather modest place in his review. And we understand that well after reading the government budget, with 2.7 pst. the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. The question I want to ask Mr. Børge Brende is: When did he intend to deliver the item? When will we see a proposal for a government budget that does not formally call for the Minister of the Environment to lose the fight against the Minister of Finance, and perhaps the Minister of Oil and Energy? And when are we going to get a national measure of 10 pst? new renewable energy? I can actually support the Council of State that the Gas Communication may be an appropriate place to address this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1252	First, I would like to thank the representative Vaggen Malvik for the commendable speech of the Government's total efforts in Johannesburg, where Development Minister Frafjord Johnson, Prime Minister and I represented Norway. We were prevented from making some unfortunate decisions, and we were also given a policy in which the international community should take the lead in reducing the serious loss of species that we see, including in chemical policy, in allowing more people to access better sanitation and fresh water, which was not least the prime minister. It was Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik who led our delegation in Johannesburg, and it was also the Prime Minister who went out and said he wanted a global goal in relation to 10 p.m. new renewable energy sources. And that's because the biggest environmental challenge we're facing globally is climate change. If we are to deal with climate change, which is leading to increased desertification, flooding and quite significant reductions in biodiversity, we must replace some of the heavier fossil fuels with new energy sources. We went ahead with this, and of course we're also going to follow up nationally on renewable energy. This is why Norway has set itself a goal of getting 3 TWh with wind power in the next few years. We also have objectives through Enova, which will then be involved in financing new and renewable energy sources. And as I also said instead, in Norway today is 99 pst. of the electricity we use, actually renewable, it comes from hydropower. So that's what we're pretty good at. With regard to the Government's environmental performance, it is significant. In a tight budget, we're actually adding up to an increase in the environmental budget by 2.5 pst., not minus 2.7 pst. Because we've moved oil protection to the Department of Fisheries, SV starts to calculate it as a cut. It is not fair, and I think that the representative Vaggen Malvik, who normally places the emphasis on being truthful, should have informed about this in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1261	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1264	I see that a little bit of the purpose of the debate is to look at the more general perspective, before you start discussing, among other things. details relating to the treatment of the State budget itself. It is obvious that the health service we develop in future Norway has a general perspective of doing what the entire population will be concerned about, and it will have consequences for the population what decisions we take. What we have seen over a long period in Norway is that there has been a great cross-political willingness to spend more money on health care. We also see this in relation to the state budget presented for next year. If you look at the overall framework and the growth that is there, well in the order of $8 billion, it is not the insignificant sum. I would say that it would therefore be totally wrong if, according to the type of gross sizes, you were to attack the government as if it did not show the will to bet on the health care system, because it is obvious that the government does. But what it always has to be important to discuss is the content of the bet. I have recorded that the Prime Minister has visited various parties in several fields, and that today the head of the Christian People's Party has also said that one acts – I believe – in a way as if there were no will for constructiveity in the opposition. I hope you do not have the opinion that it is in relation to the role SV wants to play in health and social policy. Because I believe that in a number of fields where you can see that the government is taking action, it is possible to find cooperation, and constructive cooperation. Nevertheless, it must be allowed to point out that the developments we have seen, with changing governments over the years, have not necessarily taken account of the intention that we politicians had, so that what has been practically implemented has become something else. I think what is published today, precisely on 10 October, which is the World Mental Health Day, is interesting. There is a Synthesis Report from SINTEF Unimed, which shows that although there has been an increase that has not been significant in mental health efforts in Norway, the increase in the other fields of medicine has been significantly greater. We are talking about physical suffering, where there has been a growth from the escalation plan started on 1 January 1999 until today at 12 p.m., while it has been 6 p.m. from the data available for Samdata in the case of psychiatry. And that's spectacular. It is alarming that when the Stortinget takes up psychiatry – after the government has presented it and has to focus on it – and you are in the middle of the escalation plan, it turns out that it is not the psychiatry, but what we call the somatic, that is, the physical suffering, which is primarily growing. What I'm asking is, what kind of mechanisms is it that makes sense? One mechanism is clearly the very strong forces that go out in society in terms of getting money in their fields, while the psychiatry doesn't have the same figures. I want to commend the Prime Minister, who has repeatedly flagged both the openness of his own illness, when he had it, and the vision of psychiatry in general. I think you need more of these voices. And we have several such votes in the Government. But I think it's very important that the Storting together with the Government gets a stake in the psychiatry that makes us prevent some of the outcomes that we see now under the control of health companies, namely that the psychiatry is losing in a competition with somatic services, and where it becomes the strongest law ever. Today, the Council stands for mental health with an exhibition outside of Stortinget and points out some of the outcomes we see. I think it's going to be completely wrong to say that it's the government as such that through its policy is responsible for this. But it's the strong cancers that happen. When we see that clinics like the Feiring Clinic today pay heart surgeons in the order of 2.5 million. kr per. years — in so far as public funds are concerned — and in order to obtain a driving force within the somatic community to do what is profitable, it needs very strong counterpowers to bet on those who are weakest. And we should remember that the voices that are heard best, rarely are the weakest. That's why I hope that in this room, when we go to the budget procedure in the autumn, there will be many people who don't just turn around about the effort the Government wants to have on psychiatry, but that we can jointly strengthen it even more, precisely with the background of such data that is now coming from the Samdata SINTEF Unimed. Because it shows that we have still not come as far as we should be in relation to the escalation plan. We must not give up on those objectives, because this is about individuals. It is about individuals who are affected and who are still in line for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1279	The debate on the throne has so far underlined what is especially important for the Norwegian economy, and thus Norwegian policy, namely the oil fund. Norway has no government debt. Here we separate ourselves from almost every country in the world. The most important question now is whether we have our backs to carry these good times, or whether we're tempted to spend more than the 30 billion dollars of the oil fund that the Government proposes that we use next year, which is the same as the yield of the oil fund. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the budget is responsible, reasonablely tight and adapt the situation in the economy. The budget presented by the Government will dampen the pressure on interest and the exchange rate. This is good business policy. And that's good district policy. This is what industry is asking for, and it is an advantage for the inhabitants of the country. The competitive industry is largely located in District Norway, and we do not want the workplaces to be laid down or flagged out. Then we don't have to spend money on the economy, because that will lead to interest and the exchange rate going up and making the situation difficult for these companies. Do we have our backs to carry the good times, or do we take too much pay? This year's increase in wages in Norway will be more than in the countries with which we compete. That's how it's been every year for the last five years. This factor alone has exacerbated the competitiveness of competing industries in Norway by 14pst. after 1996. This kind of wage development is no longer a way for Norwegian industry to live with in the long run, and the goods are too expensive. I am therefore pleased with the initiative taken by the Prime Minister vis-à-vis the social partners, with a view to achieving some form of income policy cooperation. I hope this initiative succeeds. Such cooperation will be triggered by the country, and it will increase the potential for interest to decrease, so that the wage increase does not allow to cover increased interest costs for private households. I would also like to remind you that if the sick leave of the next year were at least at the level of absence this year, we would have had several billion more to spend on the 2003 state budget. The agreement on an inclusive working life must be followed up by the parties, so that the collection of sick leave comes down and social exclusion is reduced. The government proposes more than 200 new Aetat settings, and the number of jobless places passes 30,000 for the first time in next year, so here is a commitment to helping unemployed people get into permanent and stable work. District Policy is important for the Christian People's Party. Everyone in this room knows that. This is probably also the reason why we had a major attack on the government's district policy last fall and in our experience. I felt, for my part, that this criticism was exaggerated and tactically motivated. It seemed that the goal was to strike the Christian People's Party negatively. I notice that this criticism is now silent, and that the attempt to ensnare the Christian People's Party has moved to other policy fields, where the opposition in this debate is especially trying to draw into doubt our fight against poverty in Norway and internationally. The regional political commitment to the Christian People's Party is in any case firm. People should be able to continue to live and work in all parts of the country. The Christian People's Party is working, in government and big business, to get multiple for good solutions in district policy. For this reason, we, together with SV, have some to create a fund for the business sector in the less-favoured areas of SEK 1 billion, which we in the State budget propose to set aside of SEK 500 million. kr to. We have put forward proposals to eliminate the investment levy and to reduce the tax burden on industry, and we have not least ensured that a balanced and district-friendly agricultural policy is pursued. The agricultural settlement this year was better than in several years and resulted in a real increase in the income of the full-time farmer. It's an important result for the districts, and it's a result of the Christian People's Party being in government. The Christian People's Party is a business-friendly party and a district-friendly party. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1305	It was a hard-pressed prime minister we saw at the beginning of the meeting today. It wasn't much fun to track him down as the top political leader in Norway, with the opportunities it gives to create the society he dreams of. Away was smiled in the oral week, considering that he might soon have made some Prime Minister records from the 1800s or 1900s. There were few inspiring visions about how Norway can become a warmer society with greater justice, better well-being and higher quality of life. It is not that nice either, because it is not in the direction that politics goes. It is the right-hand side that now governs Norwegian policy. After Bondevik was able to celebrate last year that the Right took part in the struggle for the Prime Minister's post in favour of a party that only every eighth voter had voted for, the time has now come for the refund. By a majority of the government, the Right has made sure that it is the ones who decide the course. And the right turn won't stop there. After the Progress Party gave a clear signal to the new government after a round of questions and answers, the time for repayment has also come here. Was it what KrFs all over the country dreamed of – a state budget that was first right-wing dominated by the Government, and that will be further to the right when the Progress Party is done with it? Was it really such that the slogan «vote to a Prime Minister» was meant literally – only the Christian People's Party got the Prime Minister, then anyone could decide the policy? At least it wasn't like that in front of the previous big shot. At the Christian People's Party national meeting in front of the big elections, Bondevik said the following: A government of Right, Left and KRF will not be manageable. The only thing that can prevent this is to make yourself dependent on the Progress Party. Then we have to rely on the liberalist extreme right in Norwegian politics. This is impossible for the Christian People's Party. We then fail our responsibility in the work of the weak, in the unhelpful, in the alcohol policy, and in the fight for better economic cushioning. Yes, that's exactly what the Christian People's Party and Bondevik have done – failed in the work of the weak, failed in the fight for a better financial cushion. Mr. Bondevik was quite right at the national meeting of the Christian People's Party. The U-help budget is right enough mountain in the first place, but also here the Progress Party now requires billions of cuts, and last autumn they got through for cuts. But there is no doubt about who gets the bill for the government's tax relief to the richest. It's the weakest, the poorest, the retired and the kids' parents. Only Bondevik was allowed to take over, so everything would be different, it was said in the election campaign a year ago. My question is, why didn't the Right and Christian People's Party tell the whole truth about what was going to be different, only they got to take over? Why didn't they tell them about it – to the pensioners, who, thanks to the Workers' Party, would now not pay for medications on a blue prescription? Why didn't the Right and Christian People's Party say that only they had to take over, would they get the jam to introduce the excesses that pensioners would have to pay – almost NOK 2000 more? Why didn't the Right and Christian People's Party say that only they could take over, would they take away the money they could make alongside the social security – $50,000 would be $50,000, so those who had the least would get even less? Or what they said about work: Why didn't the Right and Christian People's Party say that only they got control of the Norwegian economy, would the number of unemployed increase, many of those who were working should lose their jobs, and the border would come up to 100,000 unemployed with the Bondevik government? Or to those who become unemployed: why didn't the Right and Christian People's Party say that only they got taken over, would they reduce the support of the unemployed, send several of them to the social office when the money doesn't go to, or when they go too long off? Worst is perhaps the lifting break on the school side, not because it is more serious to cut the school budget than to take money from unemployed, sick or minimum pensioners — the last is probably worse — but the school break is all the worse because the distance between what was promised and what was done is so infinite. If there was one sector that was going to get better, only the Right got to take over the government offices, it was school. The truth is the opposite. It was cut in almost all areas. And again, why didn't the Right Truth tell about the school policy and the bravado with which school policy was presented a year ago? Why didn't they tell the high school students that only we in the Right got to take over, it's going to end what the Minister of Education of the Labour Party government was doing, giving free books in high school? We're going to get rid of that, we're going to make sure that every one of the 150 000 high school students is going to pay $4,000 to $5,000 to $6,000 for their books, because that's what we think in the Right is a fair policy. Why didn't they say that? I met a mother 14 days ago who has two children in high school. She had to pay NOK 12 000 in August, and she said it takes my entire salary, all the money goes to pay the books that should have been free of charge. Why didn't they tell them that only they had to take over would it be cut into the money of ICT in education? Why not tell parents with children in the school and leisure system that only they had to take over would it be cut down and prices would be higher? Why didn't you tell all the children in poor school buildings that only we in the Right and Christian People's Party will be taken over, we'll cut down on the renovation package that the Workers' Party put forward, at 15 billion – from 2 billion in 2002 to half in 2003, at a rate of this expansion that makes those who start in sixth grade this year Russians before they're done cleaning up all the school buildings? It was never meant to clean up the schools. The idea was that they would get a real school building, an indoor climate to live with, roof tiles that didn't fall into their heads – now, while they're going to school, not when they're done. Or adults who need continuing education: were they told in the campaign that many thousands of them are going to lose their offer because they wanted to cut down? Or the students who live far from the place of study: that there should be an end to scholarships for travel? Or students who take long education: that now they will get 40 000 – 50 000 SEK more in debt because you remove the main dissertation from long-term studies? It's the truth of the educational effort that was presented in the election campaign. There's nothing left of it. Well, one thing is left: I heard Right School politician Ine Marie Eriksen here in the room yesterday tell me that there was a huge increase in the Ministry of Education budget – I think she said it was 11 pst. That's because of one thing, and that's the increase in student scholarships, at NOK 10,000. It proposed the Workers' Party. It tried to remove Kristin Clement and Kjell Magne Bondevik, as the first they did last year's harvest. However, thanks to the opposition’s provision for its adoption, there is an increase in the education budget. I think it's a little daring to take credit for something that you've fought with beaks and claws to avoid being adopted. I could have added that there are several hundred million dollars too little to implement the quality reform in higher education, that you have not compensated universities for wages, and that you have halved the escalation of the research budget. Then we hear that it is not the tax havens that are responsible for all these cuts of the weakest in Norway. It is the nursery agreement that is responsible for these cuts, because the Stortinget has decided that all children in Norway will have a right to babysitting and that it will not cost more than NOK 1500. But if it's really true that even the government parties, as they said last spring in the debate on kindergartens, fully share the goal that everyone should have a kindergarten, and that the price should not be more than $1,500, how can it be that this is what costs money, that they have to break all their promises? It would have cost exactly the same thing if you had done it the way of the government parties. Regardless of which model a user uses, there is State aid of 80 pst., full babysitting and a price of 1500 kroner that makes the price tag what it becomes. Thus, the government parties also had to look up exactly as much money as the Stortinget imposed on them, in order to meet their own objectives. The truth was that you never planned to do that goal, that you never planned to make sure that the price was what you promised, NOK 1500, and that everyone would have a kindergarten. There is no other explanation that you blame that money for not being able to meet your own goals. It is a deliberate policy choice that is made, while at the same time the local economy is hit by a fall in free income and by tight budgets. Are those with a private economy to have even greater private consumption? At the same time, the municipalities make even less provision for the 98,5 pst. If you go to public school, you make $400 million. kr to the 1.5 pst. who attend private schools. At the same time as municipalities reduce their free revenues, private consumption should increase by NOK 20 billion. The result is that even more people have to wait for the sick place they need, even more people have to wait for the school they go to to be uplifted, even more people have to wait for the necessary home help, and that differences between people in Norway are increasing even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1337	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1340	Trond Giske is the main proof that the Newspaper, the Nations and the VG are right when they say that the opposition is sewing and complaining and blackpainting. Trond Giske continues with such a flat rhetoric that it is confirmed that the Workers' Party is still in the blind. I'm glad that the Right is in government, and that the Right has influence. I'm glad that the fight against poverty both at home and outside is up. But with all due respect, everyone knows it's the heart of the Christian People's Party. I'm glad that the allocation to psychiatry has escalated, but everyone knows that it's the heart of the Christian People's Party. I'm glad that the bet on public transport has escalated, but everyone knows it's Left's heart cause. There is something that says that if you have a bad case, you should raise your voice and attack. That's probably what Trond Giske does, because he wasn't even in a confession about what the Workers' Party wants with Norway. We have started the change in Norway. We've lowered taxes and taxes so that we get a more competitive business, and so people get to keep more of their own income. We have started the change in Norway by focusing more on higher education and research, so that we can lay the foundation for future growth and development, and so that more young people can have a solid platform on which to stand. We have started the change in Norway by stepping up efforts on the environment and not least the fight against poverty at home and outside. In just a few days, the Workers' Party has criticised all the government's proposals for inclusion in its budget, while at the same time granting the Workers' Party more for all good purposes. And then we hear from the manager himself, Jens Stoltenberg, that he will have a perhaps even tighter budget than what we have presented. Then my simple question to Trond Giske: when he has obviously not moved into what the government parties stand for, can we perhaps hear how the Workers' Party has intended to incorporate its alternative proposals into its budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1353	The representative Sanner asks what the Workers' Party wants. We'll essentially do the opposite of the right in all of the areas that I've mentioned. It was the Workers' Party that made sure that disabled people and pensioners were not to pay for the medicaments on the blue prescription. Not only did we promise it in the election campaign, but only a few weeks later we proposed it in the state budget. And we got it adopted, so it's now Norwegian politics. In the first state budget that the government parties have had time to prepare, as they themselves say, they remove the exemption from the pensioners. Pensioners all over the country have to pay up to NOK 2 000 more for their drugs – likewise. We mean the opposite, and we did the opposite. We want a policy that reduces unemployment, not, as the government parties write in their own documents, it increases to 100 000 unemployed. We want a policy to ensure that those who become unemployed can return to work, and that those who are unemployed, at least have to stay for the rest of their lives, so that there is no need to send even more people to the social office. We want the books in high school – for the 150 000 students and even more parents, who pay 4000–5000–6 000 kroner – to be free, and proposed to the state budget for the current year to give it money. Now the schools are selling the books around the country, so that the students no longer get them for free, thanks to the government we have now received. On the region by region, it goes in the opposite direction. We want better welfare services, cheaper welfare services, more equitable distribution and a welfare state free of charge for those who need it when they need it – not even greater self-payments and even greater differences. How does it go about suggesting 400 million? kr to the 1.5 pst. by students attending private schools, while cutting the income of municipalities compared to the 98,5 pst. by the parents and pupils who use the public school? It's a systematic ideological revolution, from the public common good for all to the few who get a service that gets better because they can pay a little bit extra, and for those who have chosen another race. It's unfair!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1367	I thought the representative Sanner had an excellent line, which was quite in place after an article that had a very strong sense of rhetoric. I can understand that the representative Giske feels a bit hurt when the government has now taken the initiative to fight poverty, and for the first time in several decades a comprehensive plan has been put forward to reduce the poverty that unfortunately exists in Norway, to remove it. Grete Knudsen, former Labour Party representative, said that she was almost ashamed that the Labour Party had not managed to take the necessary steps to help this postponement group. So it's a pleasure that we've at least created a plan, and I hope we can get back into the Storting in order to implement the necessary, accurate arrangements to help them most outsourced in the Norwegian community. When it comes to those who are drawn into social security if they think over 1 G, it was in the current scheme that if a tent is up to 1 G, about 1 G. $50,000, lost one to continue working. It was a barrier that we wanted to remove to make it pay to always be at work. That's the idea of that system. It's the taskbar. Work is so valuable that we will fight for them to get out of work quickly. The schoolbooks highlighted here by the Labour Party are a modest support. After what I can remember, it was 100-200 kroner per month. student. When it comes to the scholarship, it was the Christian People's Party's goal to come up at this level, but not as quickly as the majority decided. The nursery agreement has been criticised by KS as a detailed management from Stortinget. We would have done it another way. It's primarily the paycheck that increases private wealth by 3.5 pst, while the public has to pay 0.5 pst. The Prime Minister took the initiative to achieve more balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1380	Let me first take that with the scholarship. That's not exactly what's being said. Last spring, when we dealt with the education reform, the centre parties – with the Christian People's Party and the Left – were dissatisfied with the fact that there was not enough money quickly enough for scholarships when we were to give NOK 10 000 from the fall of 2002. It was the opposite direction – it was going even faster, and there was going to be even more money for the students, only the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right got to take over the government power. Then came the new government last fall and cut down 8 000 of the 10 000 kroner in grant increases. It's the biggest lifting break that the students have ever been subjected to. You can sit and laugh at it, but I actually think that 200,000 students who stood outside the Storting, and said "stop the thief" about Kristin Klemet, maybe have a slightly different opinion. But we can laugh at the students if that's what the Right fiscal spokesman wants to do. So to this with the lazy ones. I just don't understand the logic. They say that we need to reduce this deficit can make the days they're healthy enough to make a few dollars, from $50,000 to $50,000, to make it profitable to go to work. These people are not disabled because it is unprofitable to go to work. They're incapacitated because they're incapacitated. It's a medical assessment that says they're unfinished. And then we say that maybe they'll be allowed to make up to $50,000 the days they feel healthy enough to do that. It's exactly the same logic that is used when you're talking about excesses and sick pay. Carl I. Hagen said in a debate on TV last fall that we must have prosthetics on sick pay. People who get sick must be able to pay a little bit for it. Then you are motivated to go to work. Yes, is it so that today I will not be overrun and get an injury, because now the right side has cut out the sick pay, so now it is not profitable to be overrun anymore? People get sick, and the question is, are we going to help those who are sick, or are we going to make them poor when they're sick? Shall we help those who are disabled, or shall we make them poor when they are disabled? That's the two directions. It's not a dramatic difference, even though I think it's pretty dramatic for them to get NOK 45,000 less. But it is a policy direction that goes in an unfair direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1391	As regards the direction of the current conversion, inter alia: in the disability pension, there is a direction which has had full support from the Workers' Party, at least in the past. What's central to the government parties is that we want to put in place some arrangements to protect the weakest, and we want to put in place some arrangements to get people back to work faster. When I drew on the smile ribbon during Trond Giske's last answer, it was because he owes the government parties for the breach of promises to the students. It's okay that in other contexts you can gamble with people's lack of short-term memory, but everyone who remembers back to the period 1993-1997 will remember how the then labor party government, with Gudmund Hernes at the head, repeatedly cut down on the scholarship share of the students. That was the time when the Right and the other bourgeois parties made sure to increase the grant from 13 to 30 pst. And then we said that during this period we were going to get a little bit higher up. Now we've got it up to 40 pst in a year. It is true that there was a proposal in the Stortinget from the Labour Party and the Advance Party, but they did not pay the bill. The bill was just sent to the government, and then we had to find the deposit. Similarly, the issue of kindergarten reform, where precious reforms are being made in the Storting, and the bill is being sent to the Government. Let me return to my previous question. We have now heard from Trond Giske and the rest of the Workers' Party that there is against all the containment proposals proposed by the Government. We have heard that the Labour Party will increase a number of budget lines in its forthcoming alternative budget, and then Jens Stoltenberg says that we need a tight budget to secure the jobs. Where in the world is it when the Workers' Party is going to cut? We hear Trond Giske wants to cut in private schools. That was the proposal to the Christian People’s Party! We hear that you want to cut the cash support. I guess it was also meant to be a proposal from Giske to other parties here in Stortinget. Where is the Workers' Party going to cut to cover its billion proposals that we have already been presented during this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1400	Let me first correct Mr. Sanner's attempt to write a story about the grant increase, from 13 pst. in the mid-1980s to 30 p.m., as it was when I took over as Minister of Education. The right was only on one of the budgets where these grants were adopted. That was the last time that the proportion was increased from 28 to 30 pst, and that was after Bondevik entered the government position. It is possible that the Right had an increase in the grant share in its alternative state budget that was never adopted, but that was not what drove the grant increase. But when we increased from 30 to 40 pst, the right was very much involved. They then sat in opposition, but cut it as soon as they took over. We went to elections in 1997 without promising 40 pst. scholarship share. There were other parties here in the hall that promised, without doing anything about it. We didn't promise, but we did. We proposed 40 pst. grant share, even in a budget with full coverage. And then the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, and the Left, come into the government offices and cut 8,000 of the 10 000 kroner students into scholarships, go against what was said in every debate on that theme throughout the election campaign. We're going to create a budget that has coverage for every penny we use, to correct the cuts for the weakest that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand for. We will cover every penny of all the municipalities that strive to get the school budget to go up, to get the health budget to go up and to get the care budget for the elderly to stick together so that everyone can get the dignified old age they have gone to election after election and promised them. Jan Tore Sanner is going to take it easy, we're going to find it! But to accuse us of not inviting the Christian People’s Party – I don’t feel exactly that we have been invited to any marriage with the Christian People’s Party with the budget that has been presented, because cut to destitute, cut to the unemployed and cut to the sick is no invitation to the Workers’ Party. That's the exact opposite. Now I have registered that the Prime Minister is proposing to the vast majority of people here in the Chamber, but we have recorded that, at least in the Government, he has, for the time being, a firm follow-up with a Right who is in charge of that family economy so that it keeps going.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1413	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1416	This government is changing Norway. Much is good in Norway, but it seems that the Workers' Party is satisfied with the status quo. The right and the rest of the government parties are not. We are concerned with quality in all public services: improving school quality, making public support schemes more effective, so that those in need of help get it, but no one else, simplify public bureaucracy and legislation and lower taxes both for businesses and for individuals. In a fairer Norway, priority is given to the country. The government's priority is to help those who need it. The left-hand side's recipe is to give everyone the same thing. The maximum price in kindergartens is a good example. Regardless of income, everyone must pay the same thing. The burial aid is another example. Everyone receives the same amount of aid. In my opinion, this is completely wrong use of resources. The state has a responsibility for those who cannot pay for their son or daughter in kindergarten, but they do not have that responsibility for millionaires. The same principle as this applies to this government in the case of the burial aid. If the leftovers don't have the money to pay for the tomb to their neighbors, the government has a responsibility to help. On the other hand, if you have income and wealth so that it is possible to pay yourself, this is not a government task. This is the quality of public support schemes, so that they meet those who need it. With regard to non-performing public support schemes, we are changing Norway for the better. Having a job is important to a person's self-respect. The changes made by this government to the day-to-day arrangements aimed at providing financial security for the unemployed while finding a new job and at the same time encouraging the individual to seek work are extremely important. In order to balance income security considerations and encourage job growth, it is important to maintain a high level of unemployment compensation. At the same time, the system shall be the main source of living for those with a permanent and real link to employment and labour income, thereby encouraging them to return to work. The government therefore makes adjustments to the system that target the scheme more closely to job seekers. The proposals put forward by the Government are based on experience and more recent research both from Norway and from other countries on how the design of the day-to-day pay system affects the incentive to seek work. The proposed changes in the legislation on day-to-day pay shall contribute to active job-seeking, while at the same time ensuring the income base of the job-seeker. In order to have a well-functioning labour market, Aetat needs to catch up with those who are not themselves able to get work. The strength of 220 Aetat annual works is extremely important. These are people to be used for the individual and targeted follow-up of the individual job seeker. Strengthening Aetat is a prerequisite for success in the Government’s strategy to stimulate job seekers to get to work quickly and to enhance the quality of services to each jobseeker. Follow-up of beneficiaries of daily allowances and return payments is a high priority, and this must be seen in the context of the poverty action plan. To further strengthen this follow-up, human resources from other Aetat activities will be released through simplification and efficiency. As much as you need, you ask me! Aetate plays a crucial role in the implementation of labour market policy. The main task of the establishment is to qualify and assist job seekers in job vacancies through personal follow-up and organisation of labour market activities. At the same time, the establishment shall ensure that financial support in the form of daily allowances and return benefits is paid promptly and correctly. Labour market measures are strengthened. They are increased by approx. 600 places compared to 2002. The level of action will allow for increased return activities before any disability benefit, and will also increase efforts to get unemployees to work. This includes several sites for the follow-up of the mental health follow-up plan. As part of the Government’s efforts to combat poverty, labour market links shall be given priority. Ordinary labour market measures will focus on young people, immigrants and the long-term unemployed. In order to increase activity and improve resource efficiency, experiments on activity- and performance-based funding schemes have been undertaken in several areas of clarification and dissemination. The labour market is extremely important when it comes to combating poverty. We simplify Norway, and we simplify the labour market in order to quickly get people back into a job that suits their health, their skills and qualifications. This is to simplify Norway. This is modernising Norway, and that's why this government is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1435	The Trontal announces that the Government will continue to work for a smaller and better state ownership, and that it will consider how to organise the management of this ownership. In dealing with the announcement of ownership this spring, we experienced a political struggle for the future of state enterprises. It is important to see the challenges in the context of the development we experience not only in Norway but in many Western countries. What we see is that the old industry is confused without creating a lot of new things that can replace what is disappearing. The threat that a significant business is flagged by head offices and development units and the risk of becoming a branch country is imminent. We must be aware that it is the head offices that make choices about strategic suppliers, advice and financial services, and not just decisions about production and procurement. Therefore, it is vital to keep Norwegian companies, with ownership of important companies such as Hydro, Telenor, the Kongsberg Group and many, many more. This is not in contrast to having non-resident owners in this country. They enrich Norwegian industrial environments and create good competitors. What's wrong is that we don't have Norwegian capital environments with the same capital strength as our foreign competitors. Even though Norway is the richest country in the world, it is the richest country in the world. citizens, we do not have available capital that can give foreign investors some particular competition. Thus, attractive pieces of Norwegian business can go on cheap sales and disappear out of the country. Let me do some examples. We've lost companies like Dyna, Findus, Nycomed, Pharma, Helly Hansen and Hydro Seafood. Kværn was about to disappear. When examining the ownership notification, proposals were made for sales and sales in the 70-billion-dollar class. We wouldn't have had nubjeschanse to raise enough capital from private sources in Norway to compete for all of this now. That's what's the truth. The Progress Party is the only opposition party where the Government can count on support for a reduced state ownership of some extent. But then business policy needs to change first. We cannot continue as today where the values of sales or sales of the country's operations are transferred to the oil fund, which is located only in other countries. What's the point of swapping Statoil shares with Exxon shares, or DnB with Citibank shares? That just means that foreign companies get cheap capital. We contribute to significant value creation outside, without any special ringing effects for growth and jobs here at home. The Progress Party feels a deep concern about the decline of private ownership in Norway, with an increasing branching of Norwegian business, and the lack of innovation and innovation in business. In the current situation, government sales alone will not help to strengthen private ownership in Norway. We therefore want a policy that prioritises concrete actions that strengthen private ownership, ensures that head offices and knowledge functions in strategically important businesses remain in Norway, and strengthens innovation capacity in Norwegian business. The Progress Party therefore considers it important to speed up. We cannot support any sale of state interests in the companies mentioned in the ownership notification until there is a plan to strengthen private ownership in Norway. This is a majority, consisting of all the opposition parties in the Storting, who stand behind, even though the premises are somewhat different. Such a plan should include measures to improve the general framework conditions for private owners. This means that it must be more profitable to take a risk and collect a profit. It is then important to remove the property tax because it is a major problem for Norwegian business. Furthermore, it is important to find solutions on how the country's capital can contribute to ensuring competition in the values of the nation. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring a significant element of Norwegian ownership, preferably through state funds that can compete with each other and that operate on a purely commercial basis separate from the State Power. It will mean more opportunities for growth and bud shooting of our businesses here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10.ana.ud463e1450	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. The President will propose that this morning's sitting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - It's passed.
