ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e28	President Jørgen Kosmo and the representative Per Ove Width, who has been licensed, have once again taken up their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e39	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e44	I allow myself to propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e49	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. –Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e72	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Valverd Reply City Haugland State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson State Council Victor D. Norman The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e91	This question is addressed to the Minister of Labour and Administration: The working party attaches great importance to ensuring work for all and to ensuring that those who can work are given the opportunity to work. The newspaper said yesterday that 21,000 people are now waiting for resettlement. There is a significantly larger queue than before that makes it harder to get back to work. There appear to be significant problems in the labour market budget, and the government's response has been to cut the budget so far in relation to the Stoltenberg government budget. Does the Council have any plans to give Aetat the opportunity to do the job they're going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e100	As the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen knows, in the last few years, Aetat has been in a significant process of conversion, from being primarily a referral seat to becoming a qualification seat. This is a difficult and long-term transition, among other things. because the qualification of people into the labour market requires a different type and in many ways greater competence than has traditionally been the case in the establishment. After we took over, we've put a lot of effort into speeding up this transition. It is absolutely crucial, especially in relation to the group of people who are going to vocational rehabilitation. The floor has come a long way in the conversion work. At the same time, we have said that it is important to provide a framework that allows it to be strongly encouraged to move forward in this transformation. Thus, in the context of the revised national budget, we have proposed a pilot scheme with activity-based funding for parts of Aeta's activities specifically linked to the reintroduction work. We think it's important that the establishment not only gets a good general framework. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the small cut we made in relation to the proposals of the Stoltenberg Government was completely insignificant in relation to the overall framework of the operation. It's important not just to give them a good general framework. It is also important to provide them with a framework in which conversion work is directed towards making greater efforts in relation to qualification and that it actually becomes a reality. We believe that the proposal we have put forward in the revised national budget that part of the funds under Chapter 1592 can be used for activity-based financing of Aetat’s activities is an action that reduces the queue of recruitment candidates – not very quickly, because it is a large and laborious job, but over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e109	My impression is that the floor, as it wears today, neither manages to do the distribution part nor the qualification part well enough. At the same time, we in the Labour Party are concerned that the agency has a role, both in terms of the traditional distribution and the qualification part, and that there is no weakening of dissemination efforts. It has been assured by the Council of State from the Chair of the Storting that you should not do so. I'm noticing that there's a lot of trouble among the employees. I noticed that the employees now also went to strike to mark their concerns. At the same time, I note that the return that is now coming from half of the cut proposed by the Government during the autumn budgetary procedure is financed by cutting labour market measures accordingly. Does the Council of State think that the labour market situation is now such that labour market measures should be cut to a limited extent in order to finance actions within the establishment? Is it not rather that the situation on the labour market requires great attention for everyone and that, at the same time, Aetat should be better able to carry out the task they are going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e116	Aetat’s own assessment is that it is fully possible to do the work they are going to do in terms of dissemination in relation to the labour market today. Their assessment is that the framework they have for ordinary labour market measures is sufficient, given the situation in the labour market. The major challenge – I think Schjøtt-Pedersen also agree – is to increase efforts to qualify people for the labour market, people who are currently having problems getting straight into the labour market. Therefore, this increased effort is linked to specific labour market measures and the building of skills and capacities, so that Aetat can take care of this group. That's the task we think needs to be given priority, and that's the task we're working on that Aetat should get financial resources to be able to do better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e121	There will be follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e124	Aetat has always been an establishment that has measured rapid conversion, depending on the number of available and available tools. Today, one may well characterize the establishment as a full - scale establishment. There is a lot of testing and there is a lot of failure. They add dissatisfaction to the job, the path of sick absence, customers complain, and there is a lot of negative media focus that also helps to reinforce the problems. We are all certain that Aetat has a significant task in connection with the intentional agreement on an inclusive working life. The paradox is that the work on this agreement begins with an exclusive personnel policy towards those added to the establishment. And my question to the Council of State is, When is Aetat going to settle down? I found the Council of State's suggestion that the financial framework is good enough for the budget to be lacking in a broader assessment. I note that the Council of State is reversing a little bit of the argument that came in December, and is adding 15 million to the revised budget. $15 million. kr that has already been used up. When is the Council willing to provide Aetat with a financial framework so that they can carry out the job they are actually assigned to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e133	I fully agree that Aetat is struggling with major problems. They've done that for a long time. The high numbers of sick leave and dissatisfaction in the job are actually numbers from last year, when Aetat was run by a different government than the one running the establishment now. What has been our great effort has been trying to get Aetat back on his feet. We're working on that problem. We're going to keep working on that. We're set to give Aetat the financial framework that is necessary for them to do this combined qualification and dissemination job that we're talking about. I would like to remind you once again that we are in the revised national budget, in addition to proposing 15 million. kr to Aetat, proposes a pilot scheme with activity-based financing of parts of Aetat’s qualification activities, which involves an economic model that enables, to the extent that Aetat is able to do a more extensive job than they are doing today, it will automatically trigger more resources for the establishment. I think the end result of that conversion work is that we get an Aetat that works better, that has a bigger financial framework than it had under the previous government, and that is able to combine qualification and dissemination work in a very good way. And I'm sorry I'm saying it: I have more faith in Aetat than it seems the representative Uppøen Hansen has.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e143	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e146	The council says he'll bet on qualification in Aetat. So if you're going to do that, you have to have people who have time to talk to those who need qualification and who have the skills to do it. The first state council did when he came to the State Council, was to make sure that several of the people who were going to do this job were cancelled. This knew Aetat, and this knew the Council of State. He now confirmed in his reply to the Workers' Party that the problems were serious before he took over. Then there is reason to demand an answer as to why you do what you do. I have to ask the Council of State: is he happy to have 5,000 more on the reserve bench, on passive social security benefits, in his short career?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e151	I want to clarify again: the problems in Aetat are primarily related to the way Aetat has been organised, and the way in which resources have been prioritised internally in Aetat. That is why we have put the emphasis on stepping up work on the reorganisation and conversion of Aetate, from the model that we had before, to the model that Stortinget adopted last year. Then we say at the same time that of course the department has to have a financial framework. We've given it about the same framework as the previous government suggested. At the same time, we are now proposing a completely new funding mechanism for Aetat, which will enable more targeted work to be done on the groups to which Aetat should give priority and, in this context, the money will have to be much more closely followed by users into Aetat. We think this is necessary in order for the combination of reorganisation and funding to provide a strong Aetat, which at least I think we need, and which I think the representative Andersen also thinks we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e158	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e161	The major difficulties in Aetat are described to us by the employees. That then the management of the department says the same thing as the council, that these problems probably aren't as big as the employees say, I think is some of the problem here. We should have one whole establishment instead of the division that is now. One of the things that employees tell us about is that the new computer system, which is part of the conversion, does not work, or works so poorly that they now deal with half as many applications as they did before. So extra resources are needed to improve this right now. And the solution that the Council of State presents, that they're now going to get the reward for the number of things they're dealing with, is the opposite of what's really their problem: they're sitting and waiting for too bad a facility. My question to the Council of State is: Is extra resources now being deployed to solve the data problems that employees have encountered, and they are therefore able to do the job we want them to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e170	I think we have to realize here that reality can be something different in the management of the Aetat and in parts of the grassroots in the establishment. While it is clear that any introduction of a new computer system involves some infant problems, the description given to us regarding the phase-in phase-in of a new computer system in Aetat is that the problems are far less than what was now stated. I'll take a double check on this again. We have been following the introduction of a new computer system throughout the winter and spring, and the messages we have received do not correspond to the image that some employees have given in the media. But we're terribly concerned that communication between management and employees in Aetat needs to get better, and that's one of the points we're going to place crucial emphasis on, when we're going to look for a new Director of Labour after Lars Wilhelmsen has asked to move into another position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e177	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e180	I share the views of the Council of State on this that there are different opinions and considerations about Aetat – one would think that there was a full crisis in Aetat if one were to take on the basis of what has been said earlier here. But if that's how there are unclear roles in Aetat, then my question to the Council of State is, what are we going to do to clean up Aetat? And when the Government, which in a way cuts in the ordinary budget, comes back with funds now when we move on to a financing model that the Progress Party will support – this with an activity-based model, or the money will use – will the Council and the Government then look at the possibility that other players in the labour market sector can get on the road and compete with Aetat, and perhaps offer to liquidate the queues that are there?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e187	Basically, I just want to clarify two things. First of all, Aetat is doing a very good job in many areas, just to have said it. Secondly, Aetat is very much using other suppliers for its activities already today, and they will continue to do so, perhaps to a greater extent, in the future. It is also natural for an assessment of a new Aetat financing system to assess whether these activity-based and, in part, performance-based schemes that we intend to propose for next year open up the possibility for others to enter and provide part of the services. But when that's said, I would say that I think it's important to be clear that having a State Aetate with a full responsibility for qualification and dissemination is very important. I don't think employment services and job-qualification is an area suitable for privatisation. Having a well-functioning labour market, having a well-functioning qualification system, must be a public task. But that we on defined parts of this can get more into private, I think clearly can be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e197	The Minister of Employment and Administration: As you know, the car industry has had a strong tax tightening this year, both in the case of a company car and in the case of a kilometer bill. In addition to this, the Department has reduced the mileage allowance by 20 cents. In Question Time on March 13, this year, the State Council informed Victor Norman that the background to this was that the cost of car maintenance was reduced to between 6 and 7 pst. last year. The Council of State stated that figures from the Road Traffic Information Council showed this, but in Dagbladet on 24 March, Director Ola Bjørnstad of the Road Traffic Information Council stated that the cost of car maintenance was not reduced at all in the last year. Does the Council of State mean that Ola Bjørnstad is providing incorrect information here, or is it the Council of State that has provided incorrect information in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e207	I think both of them have given the right information, so to speak. Once we have realized that the cost of car maintenance has decreased by 6-7 pst., there are two factors behind this. One is a fall in petrol prices, and there is agreement between us and the Council of Information. The second is a technical matter, as I also mentioned in the Questionnaire when the question was up – and that’s what may be the reason why two very professional people give different answers: With regard to the basis for calculating the cost of car maintenance in the state, it has previously been inserted that the typical driver had a bonus of 35 or 40 pst. on the insurance policy – I do not remember it exactly. Then the studies show that the drivers have an average of 70 pst. bonus. As the mileage compensation is intended to cover actual costs, in calculating the costs this year, it was adjusted for this change between actual and calculated bonuses, and that's the second reason why we find a decrease in car maintenance costs of between 6 and 7 pst. For natural reasons, the Information Council does not expect changes in bonuses to serve as a basis for its calculations. But if we take into account that we've previously applied too low a bonus compared to what people actually have, plus the change in petrol prices and other conditions, the numbers clearly show a decrease in costs of between 6 and 7 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e214	I have to say that I am a little surprised at the answer I get, simply that both are right. When one says there's no reduction, and the other says there's 6-7 pst. reduction, both can't possibly be right. When it comes to this with calculation bases and bonus schemes, I also find it very strange. If someone sits in an office in Oslo and changes the calculation basis, e.g. from 40 pst. to 65 pst. bonus, and based on it, it does not in any way mean that the car list across the country gets any better bonus schemes or slightly lower car costs. I interpret the answer from the Council of State indirectly so that incorrect information has been provided in this case – at least misleading information – and the question then is: Does the Council of State act to come back and give correct information about this to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e221	The Council of State has provided completely correct information at all times. Let me just clarify a little bit about the specific circumstances, and then maybe I can go back to the first part of the question. We are very concerned that the kilometre compensation and other state allowances should be defended as cost recovery and nothing more, including. in order to avoid the issue of whether these things should be taxed. There shall be no net benefit from the remuneration we provide to cover expenses, and then it is important that the remuneration is proportionate to the actual costs. When it's like that, the drivers that get kilometer compensation have an average of 70 or 65 pst. bonus and not 30 or 40 pst., it must be wrong to add 30 or 40 pst. the bonus under which the calculation is to be made. This will mean that an average driver has a profit, and then the issue of taxation comes up. We need to come up with a cleaner system where people don't risk getting tax issues involved in the cost compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e226	There will be additional questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e229	This is interesting. In reality, it must mean that if the information currently provided by the Council of State is correct, the Government in the opposite situation — that is, the drivers start to crash more than before so that they get lower bonuses on their insurance, or that they get other cost increases — will reverse this. In that case, it's completely new. Never before has a government argued with this type of variation as a justification that they have changed the level of charges to drivers or other groups. In that case, it must mean that the Government here introduces a completely new principle on how to tax the cars, and I think the Council of State should elaborate. Is it true that if you assume that the drivers are good at driving a car and don't crash, they will get an extra penalty by paying more in taxes to the state? And in that case, will this be reversed in the opposite direction, if you start to crash more and get lower bonuses on your insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e234	We're concerned that we're going to have diet allowance and car compensation that is consistent with the actual expenses that people have. It is not our intention to enter and examine the hearts and kidneys of state employees or others to see if the costs are self-inflicted or if the costs are unpaid. I also want to remind the representative that there are people who come up in a car crash where they lose bonus even if you can't say that they are thus running raw or otherwise have done something that is self-inflicted. We are committed to a cost-based regulation so that the issue of profit taxation does not become a real issue. This is related to the fact that we want a simple system. We want to make it quite clear that the state does not pay compensation as camouflaged wages, but that we want people to recover the actual costs. It is then necessary to calculate the actual costs on which they are based, and it has been the principle that has been followed in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e239	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e242	I would like to ask a question to Mr. Frafjord Johnson. The destructions that have now been inflicted on recaptured Palestinian territories by Israel are significant. It has particularly affected Palestinian infrastructure, such as police stations, statistical offices and what it might be. Does the Council of State mean that Israel has a duty to replace the damage it has caused, or that it can be held accountable, and that it is possible to claim compensation from Israel for these destructions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e249	The representative, Halvorsen, asks a timely question. On the part of the Government, we have strongly criticised the Israeli attacks and the Israeli actions and the destruction of aid projects and infrastructure. We have also pointed out that it is necessary that international donor communities also ask for assurances from Israel that the country will not again destroy Palestinian infrastructure through new funding from international donors. The Government is currently assessing the issue raised by the representative Halvorsen, namely whether Norway is authorised to claim compensation from the Israeli authorities for the damage caused to infrastructure. That assessment is currently being carried out, and that means that no conclusion has been drawn in that case. It's our lawyers who are working on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e254	I thank you for your answer. It may well be a little weak to believe that even though the world community is now addressing a host of requests to Israel to refrain from new destruction, it is something that is being taken into account. On the contrary, the situation is very serious, because nothing is being done by Israel, nor are there very clear UN Security Council resolutions. There are few prayers being heard in the Middle East these days. I think it is interesting that the Norwegian Government is now examining the basis for this, because it is quite complicated questions of international law that concern liability. On the one hand, it will be in the run-up to gifts or assistance projects where Norway has contributed directly, too much of this infrastructure is built up using Norwegian funds. But on the one hand, it will also be in relation to whether Israel under international law is obliged to replace. And then there are two issues that are important: firstly, what Norway might demand on its own behalf. But the second question is what Norway can support the Palestinian self-government in terms of claims for compensation from Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e263	As the representative Halvorsen himself is involved, this is very complicated by international law. It is clear that when Norway has provided assistance to Palestine to build infrastructure projects and other types of measures, it has initially been given to Palestinian self-government authorities – that is their responsibility, it has been delegated to their board of directors. This means that Norway is actually in a situation where we cannot in some way demand it. However, we are now assessing whether compensation is justified, and that means whether it is justified to demand compensation from Israeli authorities. Which recipient it will then be about – whether it is Palestinian authorities or us – is now working on it. So on the second question that the representative Halvorsen is dealing with. You work as far as I am familiar with – and I have to take that reservation, because I have not talked to the law department’s experts today – also with this dimension in the assessment that is now being carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e271	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e274	I understand that the Government is assessing the question of whether Israel, if any, is responsible and should pay some compensation. It is true that over the years, Norway has allocated enormous funds – well over a billion, as far as I know – to the Palestinian self-government authorities, who have failed to provide security and order in their areas. It is also claimed that they, from Arafat at the top, have helped to approve and, in part, also spend money on financing terrorist acts inside Israel – the terrorist bombs that have continually bombed the coin of innocent, civilian, child and woman, and facilities, discos, bars and cafés. Does the Council of State agree that it must be mutual, that it must also be assessed to what extent the Palestinian self-government authorities are responsible and must provide compensation to Israel for the damage caused by these terrorist bombers to Israel, which the self-government authorities have done little to prevent?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e283	International international law is complicated, and what is now being worked on is the question of the assistance given to Palestinian self-government authorities, and whether it is possible to obtain a permit to claim compensation for the damage. So that doesn't mean compensation. I don't think, but these are complicated questions, that it is that we can claim compensation from the Israeli side to the Palestinian authorities when the responsibility, as far as we are aware, is unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e288	Finn Kristian Marthinsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e291	I know from what we read in the newspapers, that here it can be not only complicated in relation to international law, but also in relation to who is responsible for the explosions that happen. Something is clearly coming from the Israeli side, but it is also clear that much of what happens from explosions, for example. in Jenin, comes from the mining which the Palestinian authorities or terrorists themselves have undertaken in advance in order for the Jews to go into a trap. Here I think you have to slow down, so you don't go into a minefield and ruin your own attitudes. I want to warn the Government strongly against discrimination on this issue. It has to be equal to the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e298	Now we are far in the hands of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is not about assistance and compensation and compensation issues, and in this context I also believe that wondering who is responsible for what becomes difficult in the main hall. We don't have the opportunity – at least I don't – to know the responsibilities here, either for mines or other things in the refugee camp in Jenin or elsewhere in the Palestinian area. In my reply to Mr Marthinsen's representative, I would like to say that it is the Foreign Minister who is to answer the question of the balance of relations between Israel and Palestinian self-government in relation to the Middle East conflict in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e305	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e308	With all due respect for the two previous questions, they have moved far beyond what is today's theme. What is the question is: I realized that State Secretary Vidar Helgesen concluded on TV yesterday, or whether it was yesterday, that there was no legal liability for Norway for gifts or appropriations given to the Palestinian authorities and used for things bombed by Israel. It is well possible that this was not a conclusion, but it now appeared in any case on TV, and I am glad that the Council of State now says that it is not unambiguously concluded in what legal direction this should be interpreted. But if this is the interpretation, then my question is: Will Norway then assist legally or morally and humanitarianly with the support of Palestinian self-government authorities in that the Palestinians have legitimate claims against Israel for this compensation? I think international law is quite clear about that. It will then be important for the Palestinian self-government authorities to have an international community that supports them in their legal interpretation of international law. Will the Council confirm that Norway will do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e317	Firstly, I have not seen TV as the representative of Djupedal, and therefore I am not familiar with what Vidar Helgesen must have said, or how it has been interpreted. The information that I have at least at the moment from the Department is that one is currently assessing whether there is a basis for requesting compensation from the Israeli authorities for the damage. With that, I don't think it's natural that I go into the hypothetical question that the representative Djupedal is now traveling, that is, what you would do if you were to conclude in a certain direction. I believe that this question must await a conclusion on that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e322	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e325	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Administration a question. The centre party is occupied by a living local democracy. It is tragic that the political leadership in Vardø has seen need to resign, but it is actually very understandable. The amortization in Kommune-Norge is huge. Over the latter years, the Stortinget has consistently strengthened central power at the expense of local power. The size has adopted major reforms, such as the 6-year reform and the older reform, and has placed responsibility for follow-up on the municipalities, but without being willing to fully finance the reforms. The municipalities have ended up in an economic hegemony that reduces local democracy to the management of poverty. So it has to be over that Stortinget adopts reforms without being willing to send money to the municipalities. That is why we believe it is absolutely necessary to conduct negotiations between the state and the municipalities, so that the Storting does not take decisions that can be popular, but that there is really no willingness to follow up with money. [[The President clubs.]] On the basis that the Minister of Administration has the overall responsibility for improving the efficiency of the public sector and that a well-functioning local democracy is crucial for a public sector, I would like to ask whether he will agree to the implementation of negotiations between the State and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e331	The President will remind you that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e334	Let me first say that the question goes far into the area of the municipal minister, and I'm not going to go into the municipal economy in detail – I think that would be wrong. But on the general question of the relationship between state and municipality, the government has been very clear, and among other things. on issues relating to the modernisation of the public sector. We want to take local democracy seriously. We want the main line of modernisation work in the public sector to be delegation within the state and the decentralisation of power and authority to the municipalities. In this we are concerned that municipalities will have greater freedom in how they want to organise themselves. They will be given greater freedom in the design of details of services, and they will be given greater freedom to dispose of the financial transfers themselves from the country. So we need to go more to framework funding and use less earmarked funding. Municipalities should be more able to influence their own income base, inter alia. in the tax conversion with which the Ministry of Finance works, which is intended to provide municipalities with a greater share of the tax revenue generated by the local business. All these are key elements for the strengthening of local democracy and for a more vital local democracy. It's also important, we think, to get a rural development in Norway where we're building on the potential that's in the districts. What we haven't set up is a negotiation system with the municipalities. We think it's right that municipalities get predictable frameworks, and predictable frameworks, I think, are better achieved through the type of financing we have now. But these are questions that, moreover, it is more natural to ask the Minister of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e339	I'll keep to the timetables below! But it is actually natural to ask this question to the Minister of Administration, because if the public sector is to function smoothly and efficiently, it is necessary to have a means of dealing with it. We want it to be a elected body. The consequence can easily be that when local democracy doesn't work, as we see it's not doing at this point in time, we end up with an old-fashioned official state, and it's a development that we don't want. I have to ask further: how does the Minister of Administration think it should be possible for the municipalities to follow up the good intentions that the Stortinget had to have, but that one is actually not willing to spend money, when the room for action in order for the municipalities to generate their own income is as limited as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e344	I am very much in agreement with the representative Haga, who I guess also stated in my first answer, but let me make it clear that the municipalities have a space of action that is not as insignificant as it is sometimes produced. However, some of the problem is that we are central to – and I allow the concept of ‘central’ to include both government and big business – want not only to wish us a good Christmas and a good New Year, but also to decide how the municipalities will ensure that it is a good Christmas and a good New Year. As long as we can't resist the temptation to regulate in detail what municipalities should do, the real space for action in the municipal sector is much less than well-functioning local democracy really requires. But we do not solve that problem by introducing negotiations with the municipalities. We solve this problem by taking local democracy seriously in the Government – and the representatives of the Stortinget – and accepting that in some areas it is the municipalities that are to make priorities, not grubbing up or government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e349	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e352	I'm going to try to keep the community economy out and try to angle it into efficiency and rationalization. Vardø was picked up as an example here. There are several municipalities that claim to have very poor finances, and they may have run their own nest a little poorly, and there may also be other things that turn out. However, the Progress Party wishes to use the State in terms of having a financial responsibility in relation to the primary tasks. It would probably have solved the biggest problems in most municipalities. But my question to the Council of State regarding the desire to modernise the public sector and the signals we are now receiving from the Municipality of Norway is: Is it the case that the Council of State and the Government are trying to compare municipalities? Because there are some municipalities that have it very well, while the municipalities that present a bad economy, in a way, become a picture of the whole municipality of Norway, which I don't think is the actual situation. Can the Council of State and the Government somehow train some municipalities in order to improve efficiency and rationalise where it has not been tried at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e359	Very short to a very comprehensive question: firstly, we do not believe that we should govern the municipalities in detail. Municipalities must take their own responsibility for modernisation and efficiency. Let me also say that our impression is that some municipalities can be role models for the state, instead of vice versa. This is why there are questions about getting good learning processes, not just from state to municipality, but perhaps even more from municipality to state and from municipality to municipality. In this context, we are establishing direct cooperation with 15-20 municipalities in the country, of very different types, the aim of which is to contribute to the exchange of experience between municipalities, help the State to learn part of what is going on in part of the municipalities, and perhaps also contribute to training the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e366	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e369	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. As the Minister of Culture well knows, a majority here in the Chamber – or at least here in the House – has gone in to change the so-called key, which will lead to the greatest rise in history in relation to cultural and sporting appropriations. Children and young people throughout the country will benefit from the near-dual doubling of facilities for sport. Sports will be given money. The cultural school bag will have $170 million. kr. Library, construction and activities in children’s and youth organisations will benefit from this conversion. This will mean enormous growth conditions for children and young people, prevention work and the possibility of carrying out different activities. At the same time, the funding for culture on the state budget from the drugs budget is unchanged, with as much money going on as before. It is therefore quite surprising to read in the Official Journal of Bergen on 29 April, where the Minister of Culture says: ‘It scares me that the established institutional culture... may have to pay some of this.’ My question is whether the Minister of Culture can explain how the established institutional culture is going to pay for this, when there is as much money from the tipping funds into the cultural budget as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e383	As Trond Giske is aware – after telling us how much benevolence these money will spread across the country, and I hope he is right – the bill will also be paid. I have not found the last position of the Committee, and what is going to be debated – I have not come as far as yet – but from one of the drafts I read, I got the impression that the funds that were to be transferred should not go beyond the same measures that are currently receiving funding from the State budget. This means, of course, that the extra funds received are to be allocated to new funds as a result of this Decision and not cut in other ways. But as I've understood the setting, and I'm sure the representative will be able to correct me if I get it wrong, these funds will not go to all cultural activities. And there's always a draw in government to get money into its budget. Since the established culture is not included in the key and in that redistribution, it can be a hard drag for me to keep on making the permissions of these purposes when all the other departments are involved and fighting for their priorities. We know that even though the bulk of the population has come up with a key, and if they come up with proposals for containment, the money has to be in place anyway. That's when I'm worried, and I've been so honest to say that I am.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e392	First of all, it is not right that the established institutional culture does not benefit from the conversion that we are doing, for example. The cultural school system is intended for children and young people around Norwegian primary schools to attend theatres and orchestras, to watch films and experience different cultures, which will also benefit established institutions and established cultural workers and artists. Secondly, there's going to be as much money from the tippers into the state budget now as before, so there shouldn't be any reason to cut a single dollar in the government budget with this conversion. I fully accept that the Christian People's Party and the government parties, despite the fact that they have talked a lot about volunteering, are opposed to this historic increase in voluntary cultural organisations and to sport, but what I do not understand is why the Minister of Culture, who should have been the champion of institutional culture, in the Official Journal of Bergen on 29 April, actually uses this conversion as an argument to cut the appropriations for theatre and orchestra and in the ordinary cultural appropriations of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e400	I can assure the representative that I am not going to propose a single cut, but the representative himself has the seat of government and the struggle for funds for his affairs. What surprises me in this matter is the pressure exerted by the representative Giske and the Labour Party on this matter after they themselves left the government offices and did not have to pay the bill – that applies both to research and in other areas. I'm very happy with all the money that comes, both to volunteer organizations and to sports, and who had to move it over now, but I'm worried about those who are going to pay the bill. The government working party has never provided a holistic approach to key changes. They were able to do that when they presented their proposals to the government budget in the fall. They didn't. Now they are in favour of a system in which they themselves must not be exposed to the state budget. Everyone knows that if we are to keep the rule of action, an increase in the Research Fund and more money for research will go beyond other things in the state budget. It's that simple, and it's so hard. Therefore, I can not only rejoice on behalf of the voluntary organisations and sports. I also have some concerns about the totality of the budget when this key change is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e409	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e412	Finally, the Progress Party has received a majority in favour of a proposal that was promoted a year ago, where voluntary teams and organisations, culture and sport receive several hundred million dollars. In the same article to which the representative Giske refers, I register that the Council of State opens that they agree. That's exactly what the government also wants. Then it's a little strange that we don't get wider support for our proposal in Stortinget. The Council of State is now trying to claim that these funds will be at the expense of appropriations in the ordinary State budget, despite the fact that the majority of the Grand Duchy has made it clear that these funds are in a way ‘committed’ outside the ordinary cultural budget. If the Councils of State in the budgetary procedure, possibly for the autumn, use that voluntary teams and organisations have been given these funds as an argument for cutting the ordinary cultural budget, the Council of State does not understand the intentions of the proposal on the table. So my question is, does the Council now have intentions to cut the cultural budget because the Progress Party has received a majority for several hundred million dollars for sports and voluntary teams and organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e419	No, of course not. In isolation, these are great actions, both for sports and organisations, and I thought it was great. But there's an understatement in me, and it's a disturbance that Per Sandberg never has to bear. These funds must be financed. Is it going out of school? Should it go beyond research? Should it go beyond transportation? Should it go beyond that part of the institutional culture that is not covered by the Cultural School? Should it go out on the press? Perhaps the representative is pleased with some of these proposals. I'm not happy for any of them. We have a pot of money to use if one is to stay within the rule of action. Now I'm aware that the Progress Party doesn't care so much about it, but I'm surprised that a party like the Workers' Party, which is very strong in dealing with this within the rule of action, goes so strongly. Next year's government budget presents major challenges due to changes already adopted. That's what's under my concerns, and it dampens the spirits of what's going to go to sports and organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e424	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e427	The council starts by saying that she has not read the setting and therefore is a little uncertain about what it says. I would strongly recommend the Council of State to read what we have written, in order to avoid this kind of misunderstanding that the Council of State is spreading in this interview. But let me just read what she's saying in the interview, because it's relatively eye-catching: 'In addition, next year we will be facing the most difficult budget we have had in recent times. The size has all tied up 9 billion and populous increases of 5-6 billion. Then the 14 billion come to the research fund plus that we put in place a costly study finance scheme." State Council Reply Haugland uses the 9 billion DKK that Right has trodden through in tax reliefs, perhaps clearly against the wishes of the Christian People's Party, as a reason to open up to cut off other parts of the cultural budget in a position she has not yet read. This reasoning is quite perceptive. But this can't really be understood in any other way, and that's my question to the Council of State: does it mean that the Council of State regrets that the Government has received a majority for tax relief of 9 billion kroner?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e439	As a member of the Financial Committee, I believed Øystein Djupedal was aware that these 9 billion kroner are a proposal from the Workers' Party for the removal of the investment levy. I am pleased with that proposal. It is the Labour Party that proposes that it be introduced from 1 October, following the negotiations with the centre party last year. In fact, it was due to be introduced from 1 April, but they postponed the whole implementation until 1 October, so that the 2003 bill would be about. $9 billion, including the depreciation policy changes that make the bill so big. This is not a proposed amendment that has been put to the right. These are amendments that I agree with, but which should actually have been introduced from 1 April, if the Labour Party had done what we agreed with them in the budget negotiations that we had in the autumn of 2001. I say again: I have read the setting, but I may not have read the last draft of it. As I see it, a protected part of the culture, but not the whole culture. That's why I've expressed some concern about the outcome for culture as a whole and for the rest of the state budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e446	Torny Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e449	I hear the Council of State is worried about what's left of the others after what we've done with the drugs. Then I'd like to remind her of the country meeting to the Right where Per-Christian Foss had both tax havens and more to promise. I could imagine that the Council of State was one of those who got more funding for culture if the concerns are so big. But back to the article in Bergen's Official Journal of 29 April, where the Minister of Culture goes on to say that she is concerned about culture, and that more money for culture does not make it easier for the Minister of Culture to fight the cause of culture. Then I have to ask: how can the Council explain that it is getting 420 million. more to culture for children and young people makes it difficult to fight the cause of culture? Then I realize that the headline in this case, that the state council has a headache, is designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e456	Firstly, I am pleased that the representatives read the articles that I have printed in the newspapers. That's good. Secondly, I would like to say that it's the soundness of the budget I'm worried about. What's in the setting, and that's confirmed here in the Storting, I'm not worried about, I'm glad. But the bill has to be paid, and that's one thing, and I thought that a representative from the Labour Party was aware that it's not just to spend more money on all good measures when we already, as it also says in that article, have locked the budget for next year with quite a billion. The representative Giske, who represents the same party as the Torny Pedersen, is very aware that one in budgetary management and in battle between the different departments is fighting for the crowns for many good measures. I'll fight with beaks and claws for culture. I can promise the representative I'll do that. But I also know that next year's economic situation won't be that easy because many things are tied up. That is why I have expressed concern, and I have that concern, despite all the questions I have received from the representatives here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e465	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e469	This developed into a somewhat surprising debate, in particular when the Council of State chooses to use internal budgetary lines between the Councils of State as a justification for restraint in following up any decisions that might have to be taken by the Council of State. That, I think, is a very surprising way of dealing with such a question. Per. definition does not interest the size of the internal budgetary arrangements which the Councils of the Member States may have and the discussions between them. Per. definition will be adopted by the Storting, which wants a greater proportion of the funds to go to culture and sport, and it is also said that the sector budgets will not be harmed. Then it will be the government's task to follow up the decision taken by Stortinget. The question to be asked after this round is: Will the Government follow up that decision, or is it such that the Government has a problem following the decision of the Great Government? In that case, I think maybe the government is facing a bigger problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e476	Here I feel that a constructing up a problem that is completely wrong. The point is, as I have also pointed out, that the decision that was taken is, in isolation, good. But we also know that when we are going to work on the budget, we must have a totality in the budget that is within certain limits. My task is to fight for culture. But it's getting harder to fight for that part of the culture that's not within the scope of the decision, because I know that there's going to be a tough hold on the budget. These are numbers that are publicly known. Everyone here in this hall knows them. That's why I'm surprised that a party like the Workers' Party, who also knows about these sums, is on this case when they've never tried to make such changes while they themselves were facing the invasion. It is easy to pass on the challenges to others and to provide for increased transfers of funds when you do not have to take responsibility for the health of the budget that is being provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e483	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e486	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Labour and Administration. We have heard earlier today that there have been 5 000 more people since November who are now passively in line with Aetat and are waiting for resettlement. In the Questionnaire, the Council of State has now said a little about the new funding system that he wants to put in place, which will enable Aetat to get more money and help more people. Then my question is, why hasn't the Council of State done this already this year, but on the contrary has done the opposite? I can present an example: if we employ 50 new people for one year and assume that we are able to help two people each week out in active work or reintroduction, we use approx. Seventeen million. kr, and we save approx. 400 million. kr on the social security budget. Have not the Council of State and the Government made such calculations when they have set up the budget and discovered that this is a principle that can now be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e493	I have a feeling that I repeat myself to the boring. It must be because I express myself very vaguely. If it was such that you could solve all the problems in Aetat just by sending a check, I think the problems had been solved a very long time ago. The problem with Aetat is that Aetat is undergoing a wide-ranging transition to be able to make a great effort also on qualification. This is a transition that has been going on for many years. It's a transition that not only requires money, but it requires people, and it requires people with special qualifications. We don't have to get a system where we just take people into Aetat and park them on some measures and thus say that the problem is solved. What we need is an Aetat that really investigates people, that puts up an individualized program, that follows them closely through the process all the way, as personal service, until the day they're qualified, and so to speak, helps to get them communicated. It's a conversion you don't carry out overnight. It is a conversion that requires a great deal of organisational work, and at the same time requires a financing mechanism that allows Aetat not only to pay wages but to build an organisation dedicated to these tasks. This is Aetat inside. This is a problem that Aetat is working on, and that requires the entire floor to be converted and to acquire skills that you cannot easily pick up from the street today. What we're adding is that Aetat should be able to do this job better, for example. reorganisation and through a new financing facility. But the representative, Karin Andersen, must accept that conversion and reorganization into tasks entirely different from traditional ones are not carried out overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e498	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but can immediately say that SV will never accept a policy that is aimed at renouncing those people who have qualifications and who are going to help those who need to raise their skills and renunciation. That's exactly what this government has done. I think we're at some of the core of the case, with some of the things that were also taken up in the round of questions instead, when the Council of State said that the reality of the grassroots in Aetat and in management is different. Yes, it is. People who work in Aetat have been notified of this for a long time. They've said they can't do it anymore. They end, and some of them even get quit. Users have complained about this for a long time, and say there are too few people who can help them. They're waiting in line for days and hours, and they don't get any help. How has the Council of State concluded that fewer people are needed? That is what is the consequence of the budget presented by the Council of State and recommended so strongly to the Stortinget to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e503	Let me just repeat first – in the hope of finishing this budgetary question once and for all: what we have given is a budget for Aetate which is 1 pst. less than that proposed by the previous government. If the problems in Aetat were due to one percent, then they would have been terribly much bigger than I think. Let me also repeat: what Aetat needs isn't just more people, but they need a different kind of competence than you have today. Today, Aetat has to buy externally a lot of the skills they need for investigation and follow-up, not because you don't have good people in Aetat, but because the people you have in Aetat, not necessarily the people who have the skills you need. That's the problem. This is where the long-term conversion is so big and so important. We need to get an Aetat that performs much more personal service and is less prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e510	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e513	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The major Norwegian lexicon works have been a source of knowledge for many generations and for all age groups. Now these are in danger of disappearing because it is not economically profitable neither in book form nor on the Internet. Without public engagement and economic effort, part of the national memory will disappear. The Labour Party and other parties here in Stortinget are committed to ensuring such national sources of knowledge online, both in the interests of Norwegian language, history and cultural heritage, and in order to make this available, inter alia, to the public. schools and libraries. But – I would like to stress – it's urgent. What does the Government do to follow up the wishes of the Workers' Party and the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e520	This is one of the issues that is being revised, where we have actually proposed seven million. kr, and we will continue to work on the matter. I agree with the representative that it is important to keep much of the knowledge base that is. There are many other knowledge bases on speech, so it's a little bit different now than it was too short a time ago. That's seven million. kr within revised. In view of the fact that it is a ‘revised case’, I would suggest that a discussion be held when the revised budget is being discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e527	I thank you for your answer. Here the Minister of Culture refers to the revision, but it is one thing that has been in the Government for the past six months after the clear leadership of the Storting. I refer both to a unanimous attitude of the Culture Committee and a majority of the Education Committee who say that a request from the Government ensures access to up-to-date lexicon bases for use in schools and libraries, and ensure that a national knowledge base is established. What the Government has served in revision is not consistent with the wishes of the Stortinget. I'm interpreting the Minister of Culture to you that she hasn't put the case on ice, but that's the first step. I would just like to repeat the question: will the Minister of Culture follow up on the clear leadership given by Stortinge in terms of national knowledge base? And – in conclusion: it will be about ensuring a common national base for lexicons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e537	First, I want to say seven million. I'm going to have $7 million. kr more than the working party government proposed in its draft budget in the autumn. We are in the process, and in cooperation with the Minister of Education and Research and the Minister of Industry, we will continue this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e542	The time for the oral question procedure is now out, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e547	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen to the Minister of Finance, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 2 and 3 from the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for Finance, are answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Education and Research, these questions are moved and answered in response to question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 8, 9 and 11 from the representatives of Olaf Gedrem, Gunn Olsen and Åslaug Haga, respectively, to the Minister for Health, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Britt Hildeng to the Minister for Health, is answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been away. Question 16, from the representative Jorunn Ringstad to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Question 17, from the representative Odd Roger Enoksen to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative Ola D. Glöttvold to the Minister for the Environment, is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e568	The first question that will be addressed in today's Question Time, according to the changes, is question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e574	«Participating in the business world today in providing professional workers with a professional background. Several enterprises have tried to obtain professionals from outside the EU/EEA, but it has proved very difficult for them to obtain job opportunities. What will the Council of State do to reduce the difficulties of obtaining work and upkeep opportunities for skilled workers in the industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e581	As you know, the government wants to open up increased labour migration to Norway because many industries are unable to recruit sufficient labour from the domestic labour market or from the EEA territory. The government is therefore currently working to explore the possibilities of extending access to work permits to unskilled workers. The Foreign Affairs Act and Regulation were amended with effect from 1 January 2002. The rules for work permits for specialists were significantly softened. Professional labour is considered as a specialist in this respect. Among other things, an allowance of 5000 specialist permits for the current year, allowing employers to recruit specialists from abroad without first having to make sure that the job cannot be filled with domestic labour. A jobseeker visa was also introduced to Norway, so that foreign jobseekers can come to Norway and look for a job here. Furthermore, it is open to specialists to apply for a work permit while they are in the kingdom. Otherwise, a work permit is known to have been granted before the foreigner comes to Norway. In addition, some selected foreign agencies have been given the power to grant work permits so that the application process can go faster and more smoothly for specialists in these countries. This has entered into force on 1 March at seven different embassies abroad. The legislation now provides good facilities for recruiting skilled foreign workers. In principle, trade union workers with job offers should not have problems in obtaining a work permit and a residence permit provided that there is a shortage of that type of skilled worker in the Norwegian market. The procedure has been simplified, the time has gone down. I see for this reason per. currently no need to make further changes to this part of the legislation. I propose an evaluation of these legislative changes after a time to see if the intentions behind the changes have been achieved. The experience the representative refers to in the question is important to be able to document whether these are matters that deal with the time before the simplifications, or whether there are problems/delay elements that we do not have an overview of today and that still exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e594	I thank you for your answer. It is a fact that several vocational training courses have very few applicants in this country, and that is what is involved and creates problems for the industry. I can take the shipyard industry, butcher's butcher's. There are very few who are being evicted here in the country, so that it is actually quite impossible to obtain labour in Norway. And for the industry that is then totally dependent on professionals, it creates a problem, for example. when working on short-term contracts. The problem that employers face when trying to get people outside the EEA is that the treatment period is still very long. And as I said, with short deadlines and contracts, they don't have time to wait half a year or a year to get to the workers. Another side is that employers have experienced discussions with immigration authorities about what vocational training is. And when they're going to take that discussion, it creates both irritation and major problems. What would the Council of State do to remedy those problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e603	The procedure is considerably shorter today than the one the representative pointed out. In addition, we have given seven embassies abroad, including: the Norwegian embassies of the three Baltic States are able to grant work permits to specialists. This makes it possible to process applications quickly. The question of what vocational training is difficult. It is one of the problems we address in the topic of opening up unskilled workers, and in these days we are going out with a consultation paper where the question is who defines what a skilled worker is. Today it is defined that the foreign authorities are able to verify whether it is actually a skilled worker who has formal education and training which achieves those objectives. One of the topics we put forward for consultation is the question of whether it should be the employer who defines whether vocational training is good enough for them to call them skilled workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e610	There are also several companies that have tried to solve the shortage of labour by including skilled workers, among others. asylum seekers, who are all in the country. Several asylum seekers have relevant education, they have good expertise, and they are willing to do a job. The feedback from employers is that this is positive for the workplace, and they have very good experience with such workers. So the employers feel that these employees are thrown out of the country on short notice. It puts companies in a rather hopeless situation when they have dumped the labour market and have not found people, and when they have learned and have come well into the environment, they have to travel. Does the Council intend to take a closer look at these issues? And does the government have a solution to exactly that type of labour, so that the employers don't get into the difficult situation that we have a lot of examples of?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e617	The Council of State does not intend to make any changes to the fact that asylum seekers applying for a work permit after their asylum application has been refused will be able to open it. This is in line with the decision taken by the Stortinget in its June legislative process last year in the case of amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. A majority of the Stortinget decided that if you had first applied for asylum, it would not be possible to apply for a work permit from the country – so you have to go out, and then in case you apply back here. The background for this is the consideration of the Norwegian Asylum Institute. It is important for us to send out signals that you cannot come to Norway, stay at an asylum centre, get a temporary work permit and later work on the possibility to stay in Norway because you have already got a job contract. It would undermine the asylum institute. This would mean that more people had come here and with food and lodging from the Norwegian state were actually job seekers. We believe that that would be impossible. At the same time, if we had implemented such a scheme, it would be necessary to prohibit temporary work permits for asylum seekers if we were to be more open in order to solve it in this area. We have chosen the second, by saying that it is positive that people have work experience, but then it becomes the burden that it is, because we have to bring down the number of asylum seekers with unjustified applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e632	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Questions 2 and 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e640	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘The duty-based potato protection is an instrument to provide the Norwegian potato production with import protection. The import duty is doubled between 15 May and 15 May. in the case of non-Norwegian production or marginal production during that period. The fee contributes to harming the turnover of future Norwegian potato production because the market needs to be reprocessed. Will the Council of State remove customs-based protection during the current period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e649	The duty-based import protection for potatoes is a prerequisite for ensuring the provision of Norwegian potato production and the possibility of withdrawal of Norwegian target prices. Customs duties vary throughout the year. Today's administration of customs duties means that the maximum rate of duty during the period 16 July-14. May is 1.12 kr/kg, while the maximum rate for new potatoes is between 15 May and 15. July is SEK 2.17/kg. The Ministry of Agriculture sees the need for a more flexible administration of customs protection for new potatoes at the time when there are no Norwegian potatoes on the market. Reduced customs loads during this period may include, inter alia: provide a basis for reduced prices to consumers. Thus, on 3 May this year the State's agricultural administration received instructions that the rate of duty on new potatoes should be administered down from a maximum of 2,17 DKK/kg to a maximum of 1,12 DKK/kg immediately after the end of Norwegian storage potatoes. According to the State's agricultural management, this is likely to happen in the coming weeks. At the same time, we will continue to take care of Norwegian potato production where the target price is agreed from week 26. A duty of SEK 2,17/kg should therefore be applied from two to two and a half weeks before Norwegian fresh potatoes are placed on the market. The Ministry of Agriculture is thus proposing a revised practice of customs protection for potatoes in the current season. This shall prevent customs loads which cannot be justified on grounds relating to the disposal of Norwegian production within the limits of the target price. We will follow market developments and adapt closely to market actors in the future in order to optimise the assessment of customs protection for this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This was very positive and will help to ensure that the confidence in the Norwegian agricultural policy does not get worse than it is today. I would say that with the rule that has been in force in the period from 15 May – by the way, today – and two months in the future, when one does not have to protect one’s own potato production, the consumer should have to pay unnecessary higher prices for quality products. Nor does it serve the farmers themselves, because if I am to believe the industry and the Norway Group, it is better for Norwegian producers to have a relatively high consumption of potatoes – we all know that that consumption has fallen in recent years – to ensure the provision of Norwegian potatoes when they enter the market beyond July. So here it's a step in the right direction that serves both consumers and farmers, and I'm very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e667	I can only say that I agree with all that the questioner has expressed. It is that, in the light of this initiative and the needs of the department itself, we have changed the practice so that we can get cheaper import potatoes to Norwegian consumers during the period when there is no alternative. We are all looking forward to the new potatoes from abroad, and not least we are looking forward to the Norwegian new potatoes when they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e677	‘A law judge in Borgarting stated in the Newspaper on 4 May this year that the judges have not received any particular information on the social penalty and that they know little or nothing about its content. The judge is further concerned about the lack of training and information. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the social penalty can be applied more?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e684	The Penal Code and the new rules on social penalties in the penal code § 28 a blg. entered into force on 1 March 2002. It is important that community sanctions are now used as an alternative to prison sentences. Crime prevention has taken a number of measures to ensure training at its own level and to facilitate action to meet the needs for information and training at other stages of the criminal justice chain. Social security is a special priority area in this respect. In the autumn of 2001, the Ministry of Justice instructed regional directorates of the Criminal Service to ensure that each free-ranger developed local information material for prosecution authorities and courts. The Ministry has also set up a central advisory group to ensure the follow-up to information needs. The Regional Directors of the Criminal Office have been informed of the establishment of the Group and that they will assist the regions in the guidance and marketing of the scheme. There's been a fact-finding brochure on the Social Penalty. It is informed of this in letters to the courts, prosecution authorities and the association of lawyers. The Ministry has also begun to issue the brochure. In addition, regional directors are required to ensure that the voluntary care units set up local advisory groups consisting of the participants from the prosecution authority, the State Attorney's Office, the Court of Justice and the Criminal Office. The Ministry has information that most units have set up these groups, and the latter will be in place during the summer. The local advisory groups shall, inter alia: ensure that the social penalty evolves in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements. A separate information and teaching material has been developed on the social penalty. This has been sent to the regional administrations and uses it in meetings with prosecutors and courts. The Ministry is aware that the regional administrations and several voluntary care units have arranged collections with, among others, representatives of the courts. As an example, I can mention that Judge Anne Magnus from Borgarting Lawyers' Rights is a member of the local advisory group for all the voluntary care units in Oslo. They held their first meeting on 19 April and will hold joint meetings on the social penalty for Oslo and Eastfold. In a short time, the Court will also receive guidelines on the social penalty. These provide a detailed review of the social penalty as a criminal response. As a clear objective, criminal services have the right to meet and give priority to requests from the courts for information on the criminal law system and its content. This was expressed in a letter dated 9 April at the time. from the department of all courts, prosecutors and the Bar Association. It is up to the courts to decide whether to impose social penalties in specific cases. But the conditions are now set for the use of the social penalty, and I expect the social penalty to be applied according to the intentions of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e707	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we very much agree on the intentions. It's certainly important especially at a time when we're facing big cows and the need to find alternative forms of reaction. Perhaps also in relation to those who are struggling and who are convicted, and who have an acute need for rehabilitation and to become acquainted with other environments, it is important to have a different type of response. In this way, I welcome the approach of the Minister of Justice and the approach to the problem. I'm also happy, and I think that's right, that you're now increasing the amount of information so that we can't experience any more judges saying what I quoted on my main question. However, questions should also be asked whether the Minister of Justice here is interested in following up, not just in relation to information, but in order to create greater focus by giving this social institution more resources in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e716	When it comes to resource allocation, I don't think I'm going to answer that per. questions in the Questionnaire, although of course I agree with the representative that the use of community sanctions is important. I believe that we share absolutely everything about the purposes of this, both that it can be a proper method of punishment and that it makes sense in relation to the reconciliation queues we have. We also agree that it is important to provide very thorough information, I attach great importance to that, and will of course follow up on this. I have been able to find out for myself how to work with the information, how active you are, and also how to actually arrange for the community sentence to be given a scheme that allows the police and prosecution authorities to believe that this is something they can use and that actually works. I've examined that, among other things. during visits to Rogaland, and have also received a thorough introduction to this in Westfold. As far as social sanctions are concerned until now, I can inform you that after the small attempt we have made to register, it seems that until now 50 judges have been appointed after 1 March – so that the representative can bring it when we have this common commitment to this social penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e725	Yes, we have a common commitment to this. It might have been interesting to hear what is the purpose of the Ministry of Justice here, if you actually want to reverse the unfortunate development that was in relation to the latest experience we did in the field of community service, all the time we know that this is both a punishment and a contact area for those sentenced to ordinary society, and that, to some extent, also contains a rice behind the mirror, serves as a means of creating rehabilitation. On this occasion – does the Minister of Justice see any possibility that we can expand the scope of the community penalty, so that we can actually use community sanctions not only because we focus more on it, but because we are actually expanding the scope?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e730	It is quite right, as the representative says, that the previous arrangement had clear weaknesses. This is why the social penalty has also been introduced, among others. as an answer to this, and with the wish to also have this as a response in Section 28(a) of the Penal Code, which came into force, as I said, on 1 March of this year, so it has not had a long working time. I hope that it will work like that, among other things. was found through the Storting’s handling of the case. I want to gain experience with it some time before I draw conclusions on how to use it further. But I am very concerned that what was intended for the landfill treatment is being followed up. I believe that it is very crucial now that prosecution authorities and courts are well aware of the punishment, and that they can know that there are arrangements that they can trust and that are being implemented locally. Of course, I have a responsibility to follow up on that, and so will I.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e738	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: «In the daily newspaper 6 May d.o.b. it is informed that safety measures for young people exposed to forced marriages have been in vain several times. Some of the reasons highlighted are that institutions such as Lånekassa and the Social Security Agency do not know about such security measures. What does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that the identity of people who are the victims of forced marriage is not disclosed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e747	Young people at risk of being subjected to forced marriages are in a particularly difficult situation and in some cases will need comprehensive protective measures. The government is aware of the situation and works from a wide range of measures. I refer here to the Government's Action Plan on Forced Marriage, which was last updated on 4 April this year. Important and effective safeguards may include the use of a restraining order, an address bar, a change in name, an alarm of violence and other police operations if the situation so requires. As regards the specific case, the representative Rui refers to in his question, as referred to from the media, an address bar has been used as a safeguard measure. An address bar appears in two grades, ‘confidential’ and ‘strictly confidential’, and shall, if it is functioning on intent, contribute to the protection of the threatened person against his/her address being provided to private persons and institutions. In this specific case, it may seem that the procedures have failed. I will therefore, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the population registers, take the initiative to review the procedures for alerting address barriers in order to ensure the functioning of this safeguard measure as foreseen. In addition, during the spring, I will present to the Stortinget a proposal for a change to the police law that will allow people to be exposed to serious threats, to be given a new identity, among other things. new personal identification number. This is a very invasive tool, such as: may mean that the person concerned must be willing to break all contact with his or her previous life. But such a consequence might be necessary in extreme cases to ensure a person's life and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e760	I thank you for your answer. It is important that it is not the victims of coercion that are constantly being harmed and that the measures around them function as effectively as possible. There is no doubt that some victims have hesitated to seek help precisely because they doubt that it is possible to get the necessary help. The Seven Action Plan against Forced Marriage addresses the issue of information on rights and laws to young people and parents and to the auxiliaries, measures that can lead to increased dialogue and interaction, and actions for individuals to help them in the difficult situation in which they are. This is well and good. But another question raised by this matter is: Is there a greater need for competence in departments and public agencies, since we see that there is a lack of routines and coordination – which the minister says he will address? Is there a need for increased competence in public agencies?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e771	Mr Rui's question must be answered yes. All experience suggests that this is the case. The consequence of this is that in recent times the police have been given a new instruction on how to deal with violence in close relationships, instructions on family violence coordinators, which also include the issue of coercion, and that the action plan against coerciveness sets out to provide comprehensive education for – let’s say – adult professionals, who meet them in different parts of their working life. It can be in the health sector, in school and elsewhere. I have even met people who have been puzzled and who I have tried to help as best I can. My experience of what is in Rui's question to me is that there is a need for a significant increase in competence in order to understand it – to say – the psychological, serious and cultural situation of the person who is the subject of forced marriage experience it. There is a need for upgrading, and I can confirm that we are betting on that from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e780	A little more question about skills enhancement. We know that some environments have competence in this area, and the Council of State mentions the sea that there are other agencies coming in here. I would like to ask: is it possible to enter into a dialogue with the Minister of Education and with the school to give more skills and information to the school, to teachers, on? I'm also concerned that in some schools you take away, for example. a health care sister, who could be an intrusion to having a degree of competence, and that the youth could then know that maybe it is this person you can approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e787	The representative Rui and I fully share the view on the importance of primary health care, how part of its professionals reaches people with an insight and confidentiality that is totally invaluable. We also share the perception of how important, for example, The schoolwork is – ordinary teachers, advisers. We now need these different groups in such a way that they become not only confused and helpful, but so that they are helped to know how to deal with this – where they may turn – and cooperate with others. On the part of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to stress in particular the responsibility of the criminal chain, the judicial chain. That is why I would like to refer again to a new instruction on violence in close relations and to family violence coordinators, which relate to the work of the police, but also to the police's work against being the prosecution authority in particularly serious situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e802	‘In Skjeberg, Eastfold, a neighbouring company has formed a civil protection to get rid of a pedophile neighbor and tenant. The obligation to provide information to the public by the police is currently limited. The requirement of legal protection shall be raised. The provisions of the House Rental Act provide the lessor with few opportunities to throw out unwanted criminal tenants. Nor is there any legal basis for the obligation to provide information to the lessor by criminals. What can the Council of State do to improve legal protection for lessors in the law against criminal tenants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e809	The question calls for a home lease law permit to provide lessors with better legal protection against criminal tenants. The rent legislation is part of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Justice has therefore submitted the matter to the Ministry of Justice. First of all, I would like to point out that it is right that the police's obligation to provide information to the public is limited. The question of warning to public authorities or private individuals about persons convicted of pedophilia or other criminal acts confronts the police with a dilemma that must be weighed against one another. The need for social protection against serious crime must be balanced against the pressures it would be for the police to spread sensitive information about his legation and previous criminal convictions, and the violation of privacy would involve such a warning. However, if it is clear that there is a real risk that children will be subjected to sexual assault, the consideration of the pedophile wave must be taken into account if there is no other means than alerting them to prevent the abuse. Therefore, according to the circumstances, it would be appropriate to inform a landlord that his tenant is convicted of pedophilia. This is particularly relevant if the landlord himself has minor children. By alerting the person directly exposed to the risk posed by the pedophile, a possible criminal offence could be prevented. The warning will not in itself be a basis for requiring the departure of the apartment. The landlord can rent out shelters to whoever he wants. Before the lessor decides who is to be rented, the lessor can obtain relevant information about the lessee. Such information may be obtained either from the lessee directly or from any reference. As a starting point, the lessor must be entitled to ask questions about any criminal background, and the lessee will receive a clear call to disclose any circumstances that may be relevant to the rental relationship. Whether the lessor may subsequently terminate the lease on the basis that the lessor has retained information that would have been decisive for the conclusion of the lease, such as: on a criminal history, depends on a concrete assessment of each case. In order to terminate a lease, there must be a legal basis for termination under the provisions of the House Rental Act. If the lessee has failed to understand that the lessor would place decisive emphasis on the conclusion of the lease, in the circumstances, this could be regarded as a factual reason for termination. This may be particularly relevant where the lessor has minor children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e820	Thank you very much for your answer. It was a very positive response for those who believe they have a pedophile in the neighborhood. In Eastfold it is true that civil protection has been created because it was thought that the law was weak when you did not have the right to throw out a pedophile tenant. The situation was that the family that rented out to the pedophile had children themselves. And it led after a while to this family themselves having to move out of the house, because it was hard to throw out a tenant. It is in the law, and in particular in Section 9-5 of the House Rental Act, which says that there must be «another factual reason to cancel the lease». But at least I am very pleased with the warning that can happen to the tenant, and in particular what the minister says in relation to remorse, which is also considered as a factual reason for rejection, and that this can be used for prevention purposes. I'm very pleased with that. I just wonder if the minister will do anything in addition to the law, or if he believes that what he comes with now is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e831	I do not currently have any plans to do anything about the law. When it comes to the issue of renting, I hardly think that the solution is to change the rental law. I think the solution lies in the answer I tried to suggest – both in the police's warning obligation when there are particularly serious cases, and in the legal situation that exists in relation to how the lessor can act and what the lessor's rights have in retrospect. That's the point of view and the point of view I now have. If it turns out to show up new moments later, there will be questions that belong to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e838	I thank you again for the answer. I think it's very positive that Dørum's involvement in sexual assault is so strong in general. It's very positive. It's important that people feel safe in the neighborhood they live in. That people have to resort to people's reactions like civil protection in order to have quiet conditions in their house, I think is a very poor solution, especially in view of the fact that the police are now given the opportunity to alert landlords who may be renting out to criminals. It is a clarification and a strengthening of the rights of the lessor who may not have been mentioned so much in the past. I want to thank the minimum for the answer he has given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e847	I have tried, to the best of my ability, to explain the legislation we have and how it can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e874	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e880	This question, from the representative Britt Hildeng to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e883	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister of Health the following questions, which I understand will be answered by the Minister of Education: ‘The daily newspaper had a report on Bjertnes secondary school on 7 May which lost its health sister service by decision of the local government. This is contrary to the signals given by a unanimous social committee that the school health service should be a priority task in health care. The health service at the schools is a statutory offer, and the decision of the local government is therefore contrary to the law. Will the Council of State ensure that Bjertne's secondary school is restored to its school health service?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e892	School health services are governed by the Law of 19 November 1982 on Health Services in Municipalities and by the Regulation of 23 November 1983 on Health Services in Schools. The regulation on health care in schools § 1, which applies to the scope, reads as follows: «The Regulation applies to the prevention of health work for children and young people of school age following education in schools covered by the Law on Primary and Secondary Education.» The new Training Act covers, as is known, these two laws. Pursuant to the Act of 30 March 1984 on State Supervision of Health Care, the County Medical Officer is required to monitor compliance with the provisions of the abovementioned regulation, as stated above. the provisions of Section 2 of the Surveillance and Court Act relating to the tasks of the supervisory authorities, and in particular the third subparagraph, which read as follows: ‘The county doctor shall contribute to the knowledge and compliance with the laws, regulations and guidelines of the healthcare system.’ When the Minister of Health, through the East Germany mission of the NRK, became aware that the school health service at Bjertnes High School had been closed, the county board in Akershus was ascribed and asked to follow up the matter as a supervisory authority. Furthermore, the Minister of Health received a letter of 25 April 2002 from the rapporteur in Nittedal on the municipality's handling of the case, informing that the municipality of Nittedal is in dialogue with the district board in Akershus with a view to a concrete design and presentation of an offer to students at Bjertnes secondary school. The municipality of Nittedal has been asked to give priority to the matter. Otherwise, the supervisory authority has the right to order correction. A strengthening of health and school health services has been followed up in St.prp. No 63 for 1997-98, on the escalation plan for mental health 1999-2006. Here it is added to a growth of 800 annual works in this period. Priority has been given to children and adolescents with a minimum of 20 pst. by ear-labelled means. The size has joined this. In 2000, there were about 13 pst. of the earmarked funds for children and young people. In 2001, most municipal plans showed a clearer priority for children and young people, so that there is reason for optimism about achieving the 20 pst target. In this context, it is an objective to strengthen multidisciplinary work by employing a number of professional groups in order to increase the competence of psychosocial work. Per. On 31 December 2000, 117 out of the 800 posts created in the health centre and school health service, i.e. 15 pst. by those posts. Figures for 2001 are not yet available. According to the escalation plan, municipalities are required to report the activities back. Feedback must show that the planned activity represents an increase in the activity corresponding to the increase in the grant. It is therefore desirable to focus more strongly on the efforts of children and young people. Over the period 1990–2000, health and school health services on a national basis have had a growth of about 65pst. measured in the number of annual works, i.e. an increase of 1,172 annual works, from 1,744 in 1990 to 2,916 annual works in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e924	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that you have acted so clearly in this one case — Bjertnes High School. There is, as the minister refers to, nothing wrong either with the law or with the political goodwill of these things. Yet, there is a major problem with school health. Although one points out that there has been an increase in the number of health professionals and annual work in this context, there is still a alarming shortage. What is perhaps the most daunting thing is that surveys reveal a lack of knowledge from those who were supposed to be supervisory. A survey has been carried out among county doctors, where it appears that they have very little overview of the extent to which individual municipalities and schools actually have healthcare. At least it is clear that the supervisory body does not have a sufficiently active position here in relation to ensuring that the individual municipality and the individual school have the health service required by law. My question will then be whether the minister will ensure that the supervisor and county doctor actually take the responsibility they have, not only in the case of Bjertnes school, but generally in the municipalities, to follow up this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e935	I do not dare to express myself specifically about the county doctor in relation to these conditions. But in general when it comes to the supervisory functions, I think there's reason to say that there can be absolute improvements, perhaps both in the way we organize it, and also in how the supervisory function works. Where it has to work, it has to work strong and good. So I take it in and off with me to the Minister of Health, but I can say that the government in general is very concerned about how we organize different supervisory functions in our society, and will come back to it. On the other hand, as regards this particular matter and this particular area, I believe it is important that the municipalities can also enter into a constructive dialogue with the supervisory authority, and not just get a correction order. Of course, this is the last thing that happens, because the municipalities are facing demanding prioritisation, and sometimes they can get guidance, advice and hints if you get into such a dialogue. It has happened in this case, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e942	I am pleased with what the minister says in general about supervision. Obviously, it's important. However, as far as these services are concerned, already a year ago, the oversight showed significant deficiencies in this respect. In spite of that, we have situations like those in Bjertnes, and we know that there are several other municipalities that are in the same situation. As I said, it's over a year ago, and it hasn't led to actions that mean you don't get the situation that you actually had in the municipality of Nittedal. I therefore feel that I would like to ask for special attention to be paid to the oversight tasks related to school health, both because these are priority tasks and because significant deficiencies have already been identified.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e949	I would like to take with me the last request to the Minister of Health, but I think this matter is an example that it leads to concrete actions. If I do not recall completely wrong, I also believe that the Minister of Health has answered questions about this service earlier in the Question Time. Just that we have this dialogue now, and that the Minister of Health is in a dialogue with the county doctor and with the municipality in this case, helps to focus attention on the laws and regulations that actually exist, and who is responsible for their follow-up. I guess that's the way to say that there's actions going on. But the general request made by the representative here, I would like to take back to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e966	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e972	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «Many schools are struggling with poor buildings, worn-out equipment and lack of teaching materials. The government's ability to borrow will not remedy everything. A supplement to the lack or lack of municipal or county appropriations may be assistance from others in the form of loans, gifts, grants or sponsorship. Such access to additional resources may be thought to be organised in cooperation between the parents' Labour Commission and the school administration. Is the Training Act with regulations preventing operational schools from providing such resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e981	The Training Act does not prevent schools from receiving gifts. The way gifts are given is also not regulated by law, but it is a condition that it should be a real gift and that it does not contain elements of the counter-performance of students or parents. Gifts may also be given in the form of lending to the school. I would also like to mention that the Training Act Section 9-3 on equipment just opens up so that the schools can borrow equipment from others. I refer to the fact that the provision only requires schools to have access to the necessary equipment, equipment and teaching materials, and that it is not necessary for schools themselves to dispose of equipment, but that it is, for example, necessary. equipment can be used by a nearby enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e990	I thank you for a positive answer. If I am allowed to make an addition, my impression is that the scheme is not well-known, at least not used. Does the Council of State share that impression? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that this scheme is actually made known, made clear to school owners, school managers and teachers, and perhaps not least to parents, who are often the ones who feel the most clearly the problems associated with the lack of resources and poor resources in schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e997	I don't know if I am prepared to say on the stand that the scheme is little known, because I think a lot of parents are familiar with different kinds of gift schemes for the school. I draw attention to hard work, which can be said to be a kind of gift, but not least, systems of classrooms, which are quite common in Norwegian school, which is also a gift to the school, and I think it is quite commonly known, for example. schools have the opportunity to receive used or cheap PCs for school use. Nevertheless, I think it will be possible to make this more familiar, simply because we've planned to promote a proposition in the near future that will clarify the principle of free in primary school. There we will also discuss issues related to gifts, including: based on a rather extensive consultation round, which I believe has contributed to making the law known, and also provided opportunities for schools and municipalities, etc. to say its opinion about a system of gifts. They've done that, and we'll explain that in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1004	I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1013	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘Today, many young people take training as co-pilots and engineer officers without having access to the practices necessary for the issue of an approved certificate. What will the Council of State do to secure a future at sea for Norwegian youth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1022	Training for ship officers, machinery and decks is currently provided both in maritime technical colleges and in maritime colleges. Education provides the theoretical basis for resolving certificates. The training follows the rules of the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers. The Convention requires candidates to demonstrate what they have learned in practice and complete a so-called certification book. This shall be done after the theoretical training has been completed. It is the shipping industry that has to make such practices available. Approved assessors on board must assess whether candidates have acquired the necessary knowledge. The special feature of maritime education is that the Ministry of Education and Research is responsible for education, while the Directorate of Maritime Affairs has control authority over Norwegian education and training institutions providing maritime education and demands that the training is in line with the International Convention. It has proved very difficult for graduates from maritime technical colleges and maritime colleges to gain a practical position after leaving school in order to complete the certification book. This is really the industry's responsibility. I want to take initiatives towards the Maritime Directorate and the industry to find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1031	I would like to thank you both for a good briefing on the course of education and for the fact that the Council of State here will take an initiative that I think is very necessary. As the Council of State says, it is now difficult to find a practical place. It will be a cost for fleets — both when it comes to wages for the so-called cadets, and when it comes to resources in relation to training. It is a cost they must take themselves, and the option unfortunately becomes too many fleets cheaper foreign labour. The Council of State, as part of this initiative, may be willing to assess, for example: an apprenticeship supplement based on a model from Denmark, i.e. another form of leave that one today has for other vocational training?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1038	I am not ready now to say what will be the conclusion of an assessment and a dialogue with the Maritime Directorate and the industry. I can say that there are investigations on my table regarding maritime education. When I go into this, among other things. To fix what's a obvious problem, of course, I'll do it with an open mind. It would be wrong to say that there is nothing you can assess, but I do not want to promise that I will go in a special direction. The important thing must be to solve this problem, and I will first implement the dialogue before I am prepared to say what might be a suitable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1043	I had also not expected the Council of State to go right on and say yes to other models. I know that some people have asked that the wage bill that exists in relation to unemployment be assessed. But in Denmark, they have a system that works well. In England, they must have a similar system, which provides the necessary recruitment for those taking the first part of their vocational training courses to be able to practice before taking the next part. I want to stress the need to do something, because here we are dealing with a feeding of rich traditions and with great ringing. I'm very pleased that the council here will take a necessary initiative. Perhaps I could challenge the Council of State in time for this initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1052	Yes, it will be in the relatively near future, simply because there is now something on my table that concerns maritime education in general. But otherwise I can only say that of course I fully agree with the representative Kleppa that if it is that Norway has problems in an area where other countries show that they have managed to solve them, there is nothing more natural than to see what other countries have done that we might learn from. It would be natural to include in an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1057	So we go back to questions 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1064	This question, addressed to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1067	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, who will be answered by the Minister of Education and Research: ‘A pensioner’s spouse from Arendal received tax claims from the Equation Office of 246 000 kroner on premiums that their hobby horse had driven into the race track. The Arendal Equation Office thus requires the taxation of trophy premiums from horse-keeping on a purely hobby basis. Such a practice would be very negative for bus and coaching in Norway. Travel premiums for hobbyists are normally exempt from tax in line with other lottery prizes. The case requires clarification. Will the Council of State explain its view and clean it up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1076	It is not true that trophies are normally taxed as lottery winnings. Random income, including income of the type of lottery winnings, is taxed under a separate provision of the tax law, paragraphs 5–50, and is generally taxable when the value exceeds NOK 10000. However, winnings won in two-way games are exempted under § 5–50, second paragraph, point (b). The premium earned by participants in tourism is not considered to be random income and is not treated in accordance with this provision. Under the Tax Act, any gain earned on labour, capital or activities shall be regarded as taxable profit. Advantages gained from activities must be limited to income earned from purely hobby activities, which are not normally taxable. The decision is based on a discretionary assessment, where it is essential whether the specific activity is objectively suitable for profit over time. This issue has been dealt with in several cases before the courts in relation to sport, where the activity has been considered taxable. Other decisions, after a concrete assessment, have gone in the opposite direction. Where horse-keeping is regarded as an industrial activity, professional premiums shall be taxed as entrepreneurial income. Similarly, the costs of the horse-keeping will be deductible. It is up to the local authorities to decide whether, in specific cases, activities exist within the meaning of the Tax Act. The specific matter will not be appropriate for me – or the Minister of Finance, I suppose – to go into. It is the subject of the equation, the subject of the settlement or the County Tax Office that may need to consider cases of disagreement between taxpayers and the local Equation Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1087	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it is the case that, for more than ten years, there have been calls for predictable and fair tax rules in the type of case that I am dealing with here. As it is today, it is totally unsustainable, in my opinion, because the respective Equations Offices – which the Council of State had in mind – can in practice tax the way they think it is too good. So in this case, it was a retired couple who got about NOK 250,000 in tax. But if the couple had lived in a municipality other than Arendal, they would probably not have received any tax liability at all. We can't have it that way for the future. I just want to see that the answer that the Council of State read out was completed, in my view it is not good enough, so you should take a closer look at this. It doesn't have to be so bad for the individual as it does here. As I said, if he had lived in another municipality, they might have saved NOK 246 000. Such legislation is not worthy of a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1096	For natural reasons, I cannot go into or comment on this specific matter. I can understand the need and the desire for predictability, but at the end of the day, our tax legislation must be such that it distinguishes between taxable income, because it results from, for example, business activities and non-taxable income. It is, of course, the only way that legislation can be foreseen is simply to treat one in one way and the other to deal with it in the other way. I find it difficult to see that it can be decided otherwise than in the individual case. This must therefore be decided in a conversation or clarification between the taxpayer and the like office, the subject of the equation, the subject of the settlement, the county tax office, etc., as I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1105	I thank you once again for the answer and notice. I believe that in the specific case that I am now considering, action should be taken against the Arendal Equation Office so that this tax requirement is surrendered. In my view, there should be a general principle in all forms of taxation, so that there are equal and fair rules throughout the country. So you don't have that in this area today when it comes to trophies. It shows this example that I'm taking up here. I am therefore perhaps a little disappointed at what is now coming from the Government and the Council of State in terms of the willingness to correct the imbalances that I am taking for granted here. Once again, it may not be possible for the respective Equations Offices to have the power to treat people as they think it is too good. It does not hear, as I said in my previous post, at home in a state of law. That's why we need a code of clarification that works the same across the country, and that also benefits the sport. I believe that the Government should absolutely agree with that and settle in these circumstances that I am addressing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1114	Once again, I can't comment on this particular case, but the fact is that the rules are the same for everyone. When you have to practice the rules, you have to judge the individual case. If tax issues are to be addressed or corrected, we have procedures to do so. And I guess it's not appropriate that we break those procedures, and that you think that the Minister of Finance should intervene in a single tax case. I have explained the procedures, and I think it is appropriate to follow them in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1124	This question, addressed to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1127	I want to ask the Minister the following questions: ‘The Annual Car Charges Code was amended from 1 January 2002 in order to comply now with the requirement of the owner of the car and not the vehicle itself. This may have unfortunate consequences, such as we can read about in the VG of 8 May 2002, where a car owner has got his car stolen on 15 January, but still has to pay a full annual fee. Does the Council of State think this is fair, and what will the Council of State do in the event that the legislation is more flexible and fair so as to avoid similar cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1136	The annual fee is levied each year on the person who is registered as the owner of the vehicle in the motor vehicle register per. 1 January. At that time, the fee obligation arose and is due to be paid on 15 March of the same year. An annual fee shall be paid even if the vehicle is separated before the charge is due, but exemptions shall be granted if the vehicle is submitted with the authorised pick-up point for car wrecks or for car scrapping or scrapping by 15 March at the latest. In the case of delivery to the approved collection site or car storage facility before 1 July, only half of the fee shall be paid. There have been no changes to the legislation as from 1 January 2002 as regards the qualification of the exemption from the fee obligation. Nor was any exemption or reduction granted before this date if the vehicle was stolen or for example. the vehicle was used slightly during the year. However, for 2002 and later years, the annual fee shall be compulsory. This involves a change of practice since the legal coercive measures in the past have not been applied to those who have not paid the annual tax. For previous years, the Customs Authority has restricted its invitation measures to the detachment and imposition of additional charges. For example, the background to the imposition of an enforcement order is: Riksrevision's criticism of Customs practices. I agree with the representative that it may be perceived as unfair to charge a fee even if the vehicle is stolen immediately after the fee obligation has arisen. However, this loss has been incurred by the person who stole the vehicle and will initially have to be an insurance case. It will also vary the length of time it takes for the vehicle to return to its rightful owner, in cases where it is appropriate. However, I would like to see whether there are possible alternatives that can make regulatory practice more flexible. I can inform the representative that the Minister of Finance has been informed that the issue is being assessed in the Customs and Tax Directorate. The Minister of Finance will remain informed of the outcome of this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1151	I thank you for the answer, which was complete and correct. But little is said about this specific case or about other cases. It is stated in the regulation that if a vehicle is stolen after 1 January 2002, a fee will be set aside for 2003; thus, the 2003 fee will not be issued. Thus, nothing is said about the 2002 tax year, and that is what this concrete example applies. It is clear that everyone will feel that it is unfair to pay the full annual fee plus the additional fee for a car that you cannot use. So: This concerns a car that has been stolen on 15 January. Then there are 350 days left of that year, and having to pay the full annual fee for 15 days, feels unfair. I want the Minister of Finance to take this into account and look at the opportunities for greater flexibility, and therefore I do not think the end of the answer was satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1158	This particular case is difficult to deal with, but at least in my reply, on behalf of the Minister of Finance, I said that I fully agree with the representative that such a case must be perceived as unfair. I have explained that it is basically an insurance case, but you can understand that feeling. For this reason, the Minister of Finance will look at alternatives to the practice of legislation, so that it can be practised more smoothly. The intention to do so must of course be that the kind of injustice which cannot then arise in the same way. He has said that the Customs and Charges Directorate is currently assessing this, and that he will keep himself informed about that assessment. I am sure that the Minister of Finance will also make an assessment of what the Customs and Tax Directorate does when the outcome is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1163	I thank you for your answer. When the Council of State says that it is an insurance case, it is of course right that the person who is stolen from a vehicle is paid insurance. But there is no mention of an annual fee, and that is the annual fee we are now talking about. It is the person who feels unfair – not necessarily that the car has been stolen, because there is a matter between the person who owns the car and the insurance company. But this applies to the requirement for an annual fee. I repeat that this matter concerns 15 of 365 days. It feels very unfair, and then it has to be more flexible, instead of saying here that the annual fee for 2003. We are talking here about the year fee for 2002!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1170	I think I have understood the issue, and therefore I would just like to reiterate that the Minister of Finance is now looking at possible alternatives that can make the practice of the regulation more flexible, that he has kept himself informed about the issue that is in fact to be assessed in the Customs and Tax Directorate, and that he will then at first stay informed about this assessment. But as he keeps himself informed about it, he will probably also assess the outcome. Since such an assessment is already underway, I believe that this can happen in the relatively near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1175	Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1181	«Days Business writes on 27 March 2002 that SAS has sold out parts of the fleet and leases aircraft back from companies in low tax countries and tax havens [[Barbados, Cayman Island, Japan, etc.]] Is it within the framework of ‘good ownership’ that state-owned companies legitimise tax havens and tax planning?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1188	Since the beginning of the 1990s, SAS has leased part of its aircraft – what is under the name leasing. These leases are included in the international leasing market. This is very common. There's nothing just SAS does, it's quite common in the aviation industry. The aim of this is to increase the flexibility in the use and financing of the aircraft. It was a situation that arose after the Kuwait crisis, where there was a crisis in the aviation industry. As part of SAS' extensive investment in new aircraft, an increasing share of these aircraft is now leased compared to the previous one, thus avoiding a large amount of capital in the fleet. The lessors then buy the aeroplanes from SAS, which then hire them back, and by combining ownership with leasing, SAS reduces the market value risk to the fleet and gains increased operational flexibility. The rental is determined primarily by contract time, interest rate rental and the estimated future value of the aeroplane in question. The tax situation of the lessors plays only a minor role in the lease settlement and SAS has leasing agreements with companies both in high tax countries and in low tax countries. I would point out that the state, through its ownership of SAS, participates in a global industry. The actors in this field are leading international banks, leasing companies and air traffic brokerage houses. As a good owner of SAS AB, where the Norwegian State owns 14.3 p.m., in a limited liability company registered in Sweden, I expect the company to maintain its competitiveness to work actively to achieve the best possible conditions in the financing of its fleet. And it is not exactly the owner's wish to impose additional costs on the company and therefore additional losses on the company, even with the presentation of results in SAS yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1197	I thank you for your answer. The article shows that future rental costs do not appear in the accounts of SAS in the same way as costs of loans to sea leased aircraft would have done. We have recently had a giant bankruptcy in the United States, Enron, which came into the wake of complex accounting and coverage of actual accounting. Does the Council of State see any unfortunate aspects of the way SAS keeps accounts? Will the Council of State take the initiative in correcting the imbalances that today's Businesses have revealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1206	Firstly, I am not aware that the accounting in SAS has been in breach of the applicable accounting law in the country where the SAS accounts are kept. Secondly, if one had compared the situation in Norway, it is that operating costs are recorded in the accounts for the current year and affect profit or loss, of course, while loans affect the balance sheet. When you have a lease, you don't have a loan, but you have an annual operating cost. That means that if this account had been kept in Norway, it would have been obtained, as far as I can see, in exactly the same way, and there is an accounting law that is laid down in this room. I can't see that it would be natural for me to take an initiative towards the Nordic countries to influence them to impose on the company an accountancy that I can't see we have imposed on our own companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1215	I thank you again for the answer and have a final question for follow-up. Today's owners of the former SAS aircraft are unknown to SAS management, which is very worrying. The rental of aircraft takes place through consulting companies that communicate to owner-occupiers registered with some Norwegian names, such as: Sola, Odda, as well as a couple of companies with address Ugland House. Many may therefore indicate that these are Norwegian-related owners. Will the State Council take the initiative to identify who are the real owners of the aircraft that the State leases?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1224	It is such with leasing that whether it is the representative Ryan or the government council Gabrielsen who would, for example, lease a car from a leasing company, we would not have any knowledge of who has borrowed money from this company. Norwegian industry and Norwegian business leases to a large extent, and that is a very common part of the business. It is not the case that the lessor has no obligation to disclose information, nor does one normally tend to show any particular interest in who has borrowed money from this company. I cannot agree with the representative's description that it is very worrying that you do not know who made the loan to the leasing company. I can't see that it would be natural for me to take such an initiative towards SAS in this case, just as I don't see it as natural to make such an enquiry to Norwegian business in general. If this assembly, the Storting, the legislator, is going to have to say this, of course, things will be quiet in a completely different category. But taking such an initiative in this SAS case, I'm not going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1237	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Drivers of 70 years of age must carry a valid medical certificate during driving when the licence is valid for life. If this is not done, the driver may be fined or punished. This rule is little known, and law-abiding people have experienced it because of them. lack of knowledge of this rule. Can the Council of State take action to make the rule better known?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1246	I am concerned that the State provides good information to all drivers about the current legislation, including the requirement to carry a medical certificate of 70 years old. However, I would also like to stress that drivers themselves have a clear responsibility to keep up to date on the applicable rules. I can tell you that the Swedish Road Administration has launched a programme that targets older drivers. This programme includes, inter alia: voluntary training and refresher courses in all counties. From this year on, the Swedish Road Administration will send letters to everyone with a driving licence the year they are 70 years old. The letter is sent in January to February. The letter invites you to a refresher course, reminds you of the requirement for a medical certificate of 70 years old for those who have a life-long driving licence, and informs you of the accident risk and need to keep the knowledge up-to-date. I regard this as a very good and targeted measure to ensure that the representative Marthinsen here is concerned about. In addition to the letter, which is new to the year, it is sent to us and harvested press releases locally and nationwide, providing information on courses for the elderly and requirements for medical certificates from the age of 70.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1257	I thank you for your answer. It was a very pleasant answer and an answer that is both informative and informative, by ensuring that those for whom this is particularly relevant get the knowledge and information that they need in advance, so that they do not come in the same situation as a person I know about, who was convicted because he did not have the medical certificate provided with the driving licence. Sending press releases may be important and correct, and you can expect those who are 70 years old to notice and see this in particular. But I think it's with these 70-year-olds as it is with most of us, that it has to be very topical and up in the day before we take note of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1264	I think from what has been said here, that we are very much in agreement that it is important that those in this age category are aware of what requirements exist here. This is probably exactly what is behind the measures that the State Road Service has now taken. It has been seen that the knowledge of this has been partially deficient. Both personal information addressed to each individual and press releases both locally and nationwide are thus part of this information campaign. I believe that what is being asked about here has been well taken care of especially through the measures that have been put in place this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1269	Thank you. I certainly believe that it is right, as the Minister for Transport here says, that from this year on, this is taken care of in a proper and good way. I have in mind a situation in which a person was fined in the previous year, because the certificate was considered invalid when it was not accompanied by a valid medical certificate, even if he had renewed the licence and it was valid until 2031. He didn't drive the few kilometers home. Finally, my question is whether a person who had reached the age of 70 less than four weeks ago could show some flexibility in following up such matters. Could you show some flexibility on the part of the police, so that a person who has been law-abiding throughout his life, and who has a few miles left until he is in his garage and the next morning goes to the doctor to get his valid certificate, doesn't have to call home to find someone who can come and pick him up or drive the car?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1280	Now, of course, I can't comment on the specific matter, because I don't know about it. The legislation is clear, and it is expected that we as drivers should be aware of it. I will not give here in this Chamber any openings for further flexibility in addition to the legislation that is there. We have legislation because, among other things, must be safe to travel on the road and it is the responsibility of the controlling authorities. I'd rather not have too much of that flexibility with the legislation, because that means that you're opening up a great deal of discretion, and I don't think that's lucky when it comes to traffic legislation in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1287	Question 16 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1301	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1308	This question, from the representative Ola D. Glöttvold to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1311	I will be allowed to ask the following questions: «Marriage emissions to water have doubled in relation to the conditions for the establishment of the Eastern Region. Annual emissions are estimated to be 19 tonnes of lead, 40 tonnes of copper, 3 tonnes of zinc, 3 tonnes of antimony and 11.3 tonnes of white phosphorus. The size was suggested for copper and lead emissions of 7 and 10 tonnes and for insignificant quantities of white phosphorus. Antimony was not mentioned. The grey mountain area consists of large parts of water and ants, which make emissions difficult to handle. Does the Council of State consider the increased emissions to be environmentally sound?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1320	Work on health and environmental chemicals is among the top priority tasks of the Government's environmental protection policy, and it is a national target that emissions include: lead, copper and zinc shall be significantly reduced by 2010 at the latest. On 23 March 1999, the Storting decided to establish a field of fire and drill for the Defence at Gråfjellet in Åmot Municipality of Hedmark, Regionfelt Eastland. Questions relating, inter alia, to: pollution problems were addressed in the impact assessment prior to the decision of the Storting in 1999. The information referred to by the representative in his question is taken from an impact assessment of the planned installation carried out by NIVA in 2001 under the mandate of the Defence Agency. The defence has not yet applied to the State Pollution Control Agency, SFT, for an emission permit for the Eastern Region, and therefore the environmental protection authorities have not assessed the emissions. The impact assessment of the planned installation carried out by NIVA is one of the documents that would have to be taken into account in the assessment of what would be environmentally acceptable emissions, when an application by the Defence for an emission permit under the pollution law is addressed in the SFT. It is therefore too early to determine whether the emissions from the Eastern Region are environmentally sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1331	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that it may be too early to conclude, but what is important in such a serious case with such a high level of pollution is that one gets to do the right impact assessments before this emission permit is treated. We know that antimony is a heavy metal that it's been a little bit researched on, it has a complex chemistry and a high toxic effect in low concentrations. In the case of white phosphorus, there are several aspects to it, including: local acidification, increased algal growth and a special risk of ignition. The white phosphorus does not ignite if it is deposited in water or snow, but it remains there and is highly flammable later. There are both wild and large forest resources around this area, and in relation to pollution and heat, there are major dangers associated with these emissions. I believe that the Council of State should now promise, on behalf of the Government and the Ministry of Environment, that a person will have a proper impact assessment. The NIVA investigation is both good and good, but this should also be investigated by environmental protection authorities in advance before examining the application.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1340	When the defence applies for an emission permit, the application will be addressed to the pollution control body, which has the right competence in relation to the questions raised here. It is true that these types of emissions that we are now talking about will have more adverse effects on water and wet conditions than on dry land. Dry countries could provide opportunities for collection in a different way from wet areas. In terms of the figures the representative referred to here, I don't know if they're related to emissions to the environment, or whether it's emissions of ammunition that are the source. I am confident that a qualified assessment of this will be carried out when the application comes to the pollution control department. The Ministry of the Environment will be a Board of Appeal afterwards, and it will be wrong for me, on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, to say today what will result from the process and the procedure here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1349	I agree that the Ministry of the Environment should come in as a last resort. But it is important to put leadership in the process now, so that these impact assessments are good enough, and that not too much resources are used in public terms and the project is locked not only because of its performance, but also because of its economy, so that it has to be carried out at a cost. That's why we're now focusing our attention on these huge contaminants, not least from heavy metal. The councils were aware that there are major adverse effects in this area, which consist of a lot of wetlands and bogs, and I fully agree with that. I believe that the area is very unsuitable for the shooting field and the impact area for so much heavy metal through the ammunition used. That's why I hope that someone now does the grip that shows what this will mean in the long term. I've taken up the noise pollution before; it kind of goes away if the activity stops. But if you start activity here, this heavy metal pollution and these chemicals will lie there basically for all time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1354	The work of the SFT is based on environmental competence, not on political crafts or whatever it may be. It is a question of assessing an application from the Defence Agency, based on the environmental challenges faced in the specific area. Then we have to deal with that process and see what the SFT comes to when the matter has arrived. It is absolutely right that good impact assessments are needed in order for us to make the right decision. But this process gets to go its own way, and then we'll see what happens when it's applied for emission permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1361	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-15.ana.ud2444e1372	There is no record.
