ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e54	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines with up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e65	First, I have to be allowed to correct a typing error in the settings. On page 56, second column, under chapter 3, read ‘§ 3-11’. The right thing is to be "§ 3-1" - it goes without saying that 1 comes before 11. There are three main elements of the matter we are about to deal with: Firstly, there is a proposal for a new Securities Register Act repealing the current Securities Centre monopoly, which is replaced by a concession requirement for activities organised as a public limited-liability company. Secondly, there is the transformation of the Central Securities Centre into public limited-liability companies, proposals for the sale of the company and the creation of a financial market fund of parts of that sales profit together with the 90 million. NOK from the sale of Børsen. Thirdly, there are changes to the Securities Trading Act, including: proposal to lower the flag limit from 10 pst. to 5 pst. To begin with, the proposal for a new law: it is a unanimous committee that supports the main intentions of the law, namely to facilitate the safe, orderly and effective registration of financial instruments and their rights. It is of central importance to the confidence in the securities market that investors are actually supplied with the financial instruments acquired and that no one can claim the rights to the same instruments retrospectively. The majority of the Committee – the Cooperation Parties, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party – also agree that the monopoly of the Securities Centre is liquidated and replaced by a concession requirement. And the majority – now a little smaller, consisting of the cooperation parties and the Progress Party – are also in favour of securities registers being organised as a public limited-liability company, and thus also of the Swedish Securities Centre being transformed into a limited-liability company. The central bank and the Norwegian securities market face important challenges, including: as a result of increased capital flows across borders and the technological challenge. The abolition of the monopoly will enable Norwegian securities registers to meet these challenges, and it will better facilitate more effective solutions than today. It is strange – and as far as I can see, a line change – that the Workers' Party is not in favour of the share company model and the conversion of the Securities Centre. Because it's exactly the same reason for transforming the Securities Center as it was for converting the Stock Exchange. And it went in for as well-known as the Workers' Party. It is tempting to quote from the majority remarks in the vote on the Stock Exchange Act: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, emphasises that the proposal for the conversion of Oslo Børs into a limited liability company is considered essential to enable the institution to compete effectively for investors and issuers.’ It goes on to say: ‘The majority will indicate that national monopolies are disappearing on the one hand as a result of technological changes directly affecting the stock exchange activities and on the other as a result of a stronger trend towards the internationalisation of the financial market’. And the majority goes on to say that «Oslo Børs has been involved in this development, inter alia as a result of an obsolete form of organisation.» If we replace «exchange» with «securities», the argument is exactly the same. These are the same issues as the VPS now has, as the Stock Exchange had. What makes the Workers' Party think otherwise than then, you can just wonder. Competition, technological development and internationalisation have at least not diminished in these two and a half years. On a few more points in the law, there is disagreement in the committee. One is the rules for the registration of AIFMs. AIFM registration means that the investor’s holdings of financial instruments are recorded in the account in the administrator’s name — that is, not in its own name. First, I would like to make it clear that stricter rules are proposed than under current legislation for those who can act as administrators, the disclosure obligations of the administrators and the penalties to be applied to AIFMs who do not fulfil their obligations. I would also like to stress that AIFMs have the same obligation to provide information to the authorities that the registry has. The entire Committee agrees with the Ministry to continue to allow the registration of the management of the holdings of financial instruments by foreign investors. The majority – the cooperating parties and the Progress Party – also want to open up the administrative registration of Norwegian investors’ holdings of anything other than shares. There may be good practical reasons for leaving investment-related relationships with an administrator, not least because more and more – including Norwegians – invest in more and more countries. And if there are no very serious reasons, we should have no rules in Norway other than those that are common abroad, and we should have no rules other than for foreigners. With regard to whether the registration of the Norwegian investors' holdings of shares should be permitted, we agree with the Ministry that further investigation should be carried out, as there may be serious grounds for not allowing it. However, the principle starting point should be that there should be no distinction between foreign and Norwegian investors. Therefore, cooperation parties have also asked the Ministry to assess whether equality should perhaps lead to a ban on all AIFM registrations in Norway. But that must be very strong arguments for it. The next question where there is disagreement is the question of transparency in the registers. Initially, the Committee points out that financial markets have recently become more transparent and that there may be good reasons for the public to know who owns important values in society. The majority – the cooperation parties and the Progress Party – point out that full transparency is not an international one and can thus be a competitive disadvantage both for the Norwegian securities market, for the Norwegian financial market as such and for competition between financial market players. Therefore, we want to continue the current rules on limited transparency in the securities register, but at the same time ask the Ministry to consider some transparency issues in order to see whether there should be greater transparency. So the majority goes in to convert the Securities Center into a public limited-liability company and then sell it. The sale of the Security Centre will constitute a non-negligible amount. The Ministry of Finance, having obtained the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, has proposed that the company’s book value – some 100 million. kr – does not enter the treasury but is transferred to a financial market fund. The rest of the sales can go into the treasury. These are the cooperation parties and the Central Party agree. The Progress Party wants the full sum of sales to be transferred to the Financial Market Fund, and the Workers' Party and SV would probably prefer the full sum to be transferred to the State Treasury, but takes note of the Ministry of Justice's opinion. The return on funds of the financial market fund shall be used for research, training and general information related to financial markets. The majority call on the Ministry to pay particular attention to the need for increased knowledge of the stock market in general and the saving of shares in particular. The majority are not entirely satisfied with the Ministry's proposal for the composition of the board. We are therefore asking the Ministry to provide a broader representation on the board of directors, including the major players in the market, stock savings associations, etc. and the research communities are given room and no grouping is given a majority. Finally, in the same proposition, the Ministry proposes some amendments to the Securities Trading Act, the most important of which is to lower the flag limit from 10 pst. to 5 pst., i.e. investors must notify the Stock Exchange if they acquire more than 5 pst. of the shares in a company. A unanimous committee supports this proposal, which means that we are in line with the other Nordic countries and most EEA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e142	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e145	When it comes to the monopoly, the Labour Party goes in to cancel it, and the case-speaker said it was okay. Then the case spokesman was very surprised that the Labour Party was not involved in the error of making the Securities Center an AS. We've really discussed it carefully, and we actually asked the Minister of Finance to get arguments to do it or still hold a foundation. And then the Minister of Finance wrote to the Committee in a letter: ‘The Ministry does not have information indicating that the VPS is ‘low in efficiency, lack of security or otherwise is not functioning well’ in relation to its current operations and organisation.’ And it's clear that if we don't get one argument from the Minister of Finance about why the Security Center has to be made an AS, we actually think that with a foundation the excess can be channelled back to the users in terms of lower prices, and it doesn't work in a corporation. So there's no argument in the proposition that says that here should create an AS, this can be a commodity in the way that a make with a foundation today. Then I want to ask the case spokesman another question, and it's open in a democratic society, who in society owns what securities. I have to say that I do not understand that the government fraction could not agree with the proposal to ask the government to look at rules in relation to this with openness for public access to securities registers. I don't think the way forward is to keep it closed, I think the way forward is openness, and then we have to find rules for it. And it disappoints me that the government fraction is not involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e159	Ranveig Frøiland said that they had not received any arguments from the Minister of Finance to convert the Swedish Securities Agency into a limited company and open up the possibility that the share company model would become normal in this context. I do not think they have read well enough, nor have they read well enough the papers available from the department. We know, of course, that the securities market is facing important challenges, not least as a result of capital flows and technological challenges, and it is clear that the share company model is much more effective in facilitating solutions that can address these challenges. That's exactly what you said about the stock exchange law. The majority, in whom the Workers' Party was involved, as far as I can read from the cancellation, also believed that the Securities Centre should be converted into a limited liability company at the time. In terms of transparency, we think that we should have the same rules for transparency in securities registers as those in force abroad, and that we have no rules in Norway other than those in other places. That's because we're going to have the same competitive conditions here as others. But, as I said, we have also asked the ministry to consider some issues relating to transparency, including: in bonds, where there may be reasons to have a slightly greater openness than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e166	When, before the election, the Storting treated the stock exchange law, a case similar to this one, in which Oslo Børs was to be converted into a limited liability company, the judgment of the law department was now quite different from that of how to handle the sale fee, and to what extent the State could confiscate the consideration. The Right agreed with the Advance Party that it was unreasonable for the State to demand these funds whether they had access to it or not. In this case, the law department has come to a different conclusion, namely that you cannot withdraw the entire fee, and then it is very much argued by how you can measure what you call "remuneration", that is, how much money you can distribute to a fund, and how much money the state can possibly end up with. I think it reminds me significantly of the lack of principle on the Right's part when, over a decade, they may have changed their perception so dramatically in a question that I consider to be principled. So throughout the law department, you run and look for arguments about how to collect money into the state treasury. Then my question to Heidi Larssen is whether it is such that she also believes that these are the funds that the state fund needs, or whether it could perhaps be that these funds, by being used to strengthen the financial market fund, would contribute more to a faster development of what you want to achieve through the establishment of this fund, and the spread of competence that is actually in the intentions behind the fund. I think this testifies to the principlelessness, and I could imagine hearing Heidi Larssen's explanation of how the Right has changed its view so completely in one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e177	It is true, as the representative Siv Jensen said, that the Right, together with the Progress Party in the context of the Stock Exchange Act, agreed that the entire proceeds from the sale of the stock exchange would enter a financial market fund. There was no majority for that. The majority wanted that 90 million. kr should be eligible for use in this financial market fund. We take the information that it was actually a majority that wanted something different than we would then. That's why we think it's all right what the Ministry of Justice is now saying, that the book value of the company, that's about 100 million. NOK, goes into this fund along with the 90 million. kr from the stock exchange. The rest of the sum of the sales then goes into the treasury. If we look at the comments, we find that that's what the majority in this case is for, and we think that's a perfectly reasonable compromise right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e184	If it is possible to say that something positive has come out of September 11, it is among other things. that there is a growing desire for greater transparency in secret accounts and in the management of money. This has meant that very many countries are now reviewing their legislation relating to both the possibility of administrative registration and also the possibility of keeping secret accounts in tax havens, etc. Tax havens are far outside of this case, so I will not get into that. But what amazes me very much is that here the Government and the majority of the population choose to go in a completely opposite direction to what you should have done. It allows the registration of managers, which in practice means that an investor may be hidden from the public, but also from the company in which you choose to invest – so far with the exception of shares, but otherwise all possible other imaginable securities should be kept secret. In fact, the international trend is the opposite, and as it is – for example – in a letter from Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss to the Workers' Group on 6 May – and now we are on what is called the Financial Action Task Force, which is a working group to bring economic crime to life: «One of the themes of the ongoing review of the recommendations is increased transparency in the securities registration and identification of real holders of securities.» The reason for this is obvious: it's because being a hidden owner in itself can mean that either there's financial crime behind it, or there's of course uncertainty about this. What is then my challenge to the rapporteur of the matter is that the only reason why this should be so, as far as I can see, is that the key argument for administrative registration is that this is normal internationally. This means that there are no national, substantive political arguments as to why this is kept secret and is to be continued. While Per-Kristian Foss and the Norwegian Government are therefore sitting and discussing transparency in the field of administrative registration internationally, many, many steps are going back here, and steps are being taken to warn against this from Ecocrim and the Norwegian Credit Authority – from all competent Norwegian environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e200	The representative, Djupedal, says you're going back a lot of steps. That's not right. I have to be allowed to clarify that more stringent rules are proposed than current legislation for those who can act as administrators, the information obligations of the administrator and the penalties to be applied to them. I would also like to stress, as I also did in my post, that AIFMs have the same obligation to provide information to the authorities that the registry has. So one could say that something worse isn't, it might be a little bit more heavy. What I think is a little special about the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party is that they allow management registrations of foreign investors, but not Norwegians. You treat them differently, and I think that might be a little special. Because, as I said, it can also be good, practical reasons for leaving – even for Norwegian investors – relationships related to investment to an administrator because one often invests in more and more countries, and that it can be convenient and practical, in fact, to have someone to deal with. We in the cooperation parties have also said that we are asking the ministry to assess whether this equality between Norwegian and foreign investors should lead to a ban on all board registrations if that is also the trend in international affairs. So if the international market is going against a ban on the registration of administrators, I think it's reasonable that we follow this up. But I think the most strange thing about this is that you make a difference between Norwegian and foreign investors in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e209	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e213	First, I want to make sure that on page 47 of the setting there are some words too much in the Workers' Party's and SV's Committee Commentary, where it says that: ‘The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party take note that the Ministry of Justice has assessed the law so that not the full remuneration for the sale of the VPS can be transferred to the State Treasury. These members stress that the Socialist Left would prefer...’ The word ‘emphasises that the Socialist Left Party’ can be deleted, and the word is then: ‘These members would prefer...’ – Unfortunately, we have not cleared the committee well enough, but we are doing it now. In the case of monopoly and reorganisation into AS, the Labour Party also agrees to liquidate the monopoly and replace it with concession requirements. However, we do not wish to convert the Securities Centre into a public limited-liability company. Several hearing bodies also doubt whether the Norwegian securities market is large enough to accommodate more securities registers. It is therefore likely that even if the monopoly is abolished, there will still be only one securities register in Norway. In the Labour Party, we therefore believe that if the Security Centre is still in fact a monopoly – we are in favour of lifting it – it is better for all practical purposes that the company is organised as a foundation, where the surplus is channelled back to the users in terms of lower prices than if it was a limited liability company. The Labour Party believes that lifting the monopoly and opening up the possibility to other actors in themselves will appear discriminatory on the Securities Centre. As I said in a reply to the President-in-Office, we have asked the Minister of Finance about how the Security Centre works today, and I quote from the letter again: ‘The Ministry does not have information indicating that the VPS is ‘low in efficiency, lack of security or otherwise is not functioning well’ in relation to its current operations and organisation.’ It is clear that one facets important challenges, as pointed out by the case-speaker, but there is nothing today that makes them unable to meet the challenges of being a foundation. For me, it seems that a reorganization to AS more is an ideological question than that it is needed in relation to the practical needs of the securities register. In the case of a trustee’s registration, the Government proposes to allow foreign investors to continue to register shares, bonds and other financial instruments through a trustee. Furthermore, the government proposes to open up for Norwegian investors to register bonds, derivatives and unit trusts through a trustee. So the government wants the ban on axle manager registration to go further, but this has to be done more closely. Workers' Party believes, unlike the Government, that there are compelling reasons to go against an extension of the possibility of registering financial instruments through a manager. That is why we have gone against the proposals of the Government. Nor do we want Norwegian investors to be able to register axles via administrators. Therefore, it is unnecessary for our part that this is being distributed more closely. It is important to know who is the real owner in order to supervise the securities market. Increased use of managers in the registration of financial instruments will make it more difficult to obtain an overview of the ownership of the securities market. This would in turn make it more difficult to monitor the prohibition against insider dealing, the notification obligation rules, the prohibition against market manipulation, compliance with the rules on flagging and offering in the Securities Trading Act, control of supervised institutions such as banks, insurance companies and investment firms, owner-restrictive rules and money laundering. In fact, we also believe that the ability of the tax authorities to have control is also weakened, and that the possibilities of tax evasion can be increased. It takes time to get information from managers, and many administrators have problems keeping track of real owners. I want to refer to the Økokrim's hearing statement, where they say: ‘The regulations in force with direct registration of ownership contribute to the rapid, efficient and almost discreet handling of such cases. ECOCRIM doubts that this could be maintained by transition to AIFM registration, even if, in the view of the panel, AIFMs are required to disclose the identity of the real owners.’;» So this points to Ekokrim, and I think it would be good if the whole committee had said that this is such a big objection that we should try to be careful. It does not do the government fraction, and of course it is supported by the Progress Party. There is no evidence that registration by name in rights registers is burdensome or costly. Then the government goes on to say, ‘The central argument for the registration of administrators is that this is common internationally’. — And then we have to do it as an international one. Then we again ask the Government about these relationships. Then we get a letter from the Government, which says that FATF, where Norway is a member, is now revising its recommendations, and one of the themes is that the securities market should become more transparent. I would like to quote from the letter from the Minister of Finance: ‘One of the themes of the ongoing review of the recommendations is increased transparency in the securities registration and the identification of real holders of securities. The FATF has found that the lack of transparency regarding ownership and control of different legal persons poses a problem for the investigation of suspicions of money laundering. FATF believes that such abuse can be prevented by increasing the level of ‘transparency’ [[transparency]] The Labour Party is in full agreement with the Government that Norway should support an extension of these recommendations by FATF, which will help increase clarity and transparency in the securities market. But it is inconsistent for the Government to support international rules to make the ownership of the securities market more transparent and transparent and at the same time propose new rules in Norway that obscure this with ownership. In view of the events that have taken place internationally in recent years, it is very difficult to understand that the Government wants to propose rules that have been opposed by all hearing authorities involved in crime reduction. Here I thought one should have our lead was. There is no basis for doing this now. That is why the Labour Party, SV and the Centre have said that we are against this. Finally, in a democratic society, it is very important to be open about ownership of society, to be able to see who owns which securities. It's very important that you now have insight. Therefore, it should be opened up for public transparency in securities directors. Then, of course, there is a need for some running rules for how this should work. I had a hope that the entire committee, the whole Biggest, could ask the government to come back with proposals for rules, so that the public would be given an insight into securities directors. I have to say, I'm very surprised that one just suggests that this might be necessary. Here one could say: Yes, this is necessary – this is what we want. In a democratic society, openness is important, and it is important that you begin to see who owns what. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, which is on page 55 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e266	Ranveig Frøiland has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e271	In the previous line change, the representative Frøiland was very concerned about creating the impression that the Workers' Party was engaged in user financing, that it should be kept as low as possible, and that was the reason why the Workers' Party would not switch to a public limited-liability company, but would retain the form of formation. But in order to draw this perception of users a little further: how is it then that the Workers' Party considers it quite reasonable that the sales proceeds associated with the transformation, and thus the sale, should fall to the Treasury, when it is known that this sales proceeds are based on an enterprise that has been fully financed by the user? Does Ranveig Frøiland think that it is reasonable that funds financed by the user should only be involved in the treasury for no reason, and how does it harmonize with what she herself said not very long ago about the apparent commitment of the Workers' Party to consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e276	I repeat, as far as I can, that in relation to the reorganization of an AS, we don't see any serious argument that the Security Center can't be a foundation, like today, with regard to doing what is necessary for them to do. We don't have an ideological relationship with an AS. One can do it in the form of a foundation, as it is today, and when the Minister of Finance actually also says that this works very well, we have no reason to change, and then the surplus can be channelled back to the users. When it comes to the second relationship taken up by the representative Jensen, we say that we think it would have been reasonable for this to go into the state register, but we have no suggestion about it. We accept what the majority does there, and we're going to go in for it with the plural, because the assessments that the Ministry of Justice has made, we're going to end up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e283	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e286	In very many areas of this setting, the Progress Party agrees with the Government fraction. I think the case-rapporteur gave an exemplary presentation of the various points of view, so I would like to focus on the areas in which the Progress Party has differing views and proposals. With regard to the issue of ownership restrictions, the Progress Party will now join the Ministry's proposal to the Securities Register Act Section 5-2, first paragraph, but we believe that it is necessary to come back to this with regard to the treatment of ownership restrictions for financial institutions. This has been a central issue for a long time, and there has been a case about this in a relatively short time. We cannot see serious reasons for operating with different ownership control rules for different parts of an industry that can be called essentially financial industry. We therefore believe that there is good reason to look at this when the matter comes to consideration in Stortinget. In the case of administrative registration, the Progress Party is largely in agreement with the Government Parties, but we are sceptical that it will at all be considered to introduce a ban on all administrative registrations, which emerges from the majority’s observations in the suspension. It's not exactly that it'll be very wise, and the Progress Party will actually warn against the ministry spending too much time on this in the time to come. All right, let's go, let's go, 9.4, which goes to the registration establishment. The Progress Party is pleased that the Committee has joined a record from us that copies of the inventory list to the equality authorities from the registers will continue to be sent to investors as an annual report and that it will remain free of charge. But we're only talking about a proposal to change the first sentence of Section 6-7 of the second paragraph. The party to the progress indicates that the Swedish Securities Commission has taken the view that the rightholders need an annual inventory in order to obtain an overview of the property. The Ministry proposes a rule for the annual inventory inventory to be issued regardless of the wishes of the rightholders and the right of the securities register to claim remuneration. We would point out that the Equation Act provides that taxpayers should have copies of the information sent by the Securities Register to the Equation Authorities. We assume that this is sufficient for the vast majority of investors and believe that it should be voluntary to receive an annual inventory list in addition to that resulting from the Equation Act. This applies even more when it is actually a matter of having to pay for a task that you have not asked for. So to a very central question, namely the transformation of the Security Centre into a public limited-liability company and the use of sales proceeds. Firstly, the Progress Party cannot see the need for a two-year period for the transformation itself. We believe that it must be opened up to other actors as soon as possible, and that the Securities Centre should be transformed accordingly in such a way that competition remains on a level playing field and has allowed us to make proposals to that effect. We are of course of the opinion that the time of the sale of the shares must be made after an assessment of when the highest price can be achieved, not least because we also believe that the entire sales proceeds should be delivered to the financial market fund. When the Odelstingen dealt with the stock exchange law, the Progress Party also considered that the sales proceeds were not to be confiscated by the state treasury. In this case, the law department has reached a different conclusion than they did in connection with the conversion of the stock exchange. It is therefore unreasonable for the State to allocate parts of the sales proceeds from an enterprise which has been fully built up and financed by the users. There is also no relevant argument that it may appear problematic with the Ministry’s eyes to find fair models to distribute sales proceeds back to the user, and that therefore it is more appropriate to return funds to the State. It sounds to me as if you simply do not find it worth considering the possibilities you have, rather crawling to the cross and admitting that the state might as well rap this money. However, the Progress Party believes that the solution that the Government has come up with is better than no solution at all, which means that we can vote subsidiaryly for the second and third sentences of Section 12-2 of the third paragraph. Of course, it's not like we're against transferring funds to a financial market fund, we should have liked the transfer to be significantly larger than the majority set aside. We also record that the ministry does not consider grounds for proposing exemptions for insurance companies. We cannot see that this is sufficiently justified and in fact there are good reasons to regulate, in particular, the flag obligations of life insurance companies in addition to those of investment firms. The Progress Party therefore proposes to include a regulatory body for this in the new Securities Trading Act §3-2 eighth paragraph. I bring this up with the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e309	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e312	Let me first deal with the proposals that SV is co-sponsored with the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. I would also like to draw attention to a minor error in the setting, which I believe also applies to the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. In the event of an incurrency, I think it says that we must vote against §§8-1, 8-2 and 8-3. That's not right. We have another proposal relating to the same paragraphs, but these three paragraphs have nothing against them. So to the content of the matter. In this period, it has probably hardly been examples of a clearer ideological privatisation than what we are now witnessing. There is therefore no good argument as to why this privatisation should be carried out. The only argument of the government is that this is common internationally, but it is limited to saying that it is true, because the trend internationally is to want more transparency and transparency related to this type of register. And what's a securities register? Is it an investment object, or is it something else? A securities register is initially a neutral registration of owners of different types of securities. This means, of course, that this registration must be perceived by all actors, by society, authorities, as a neutral actor who cannot in any way be accused of, not even imaginatively, having motives other than those that may be in the nature of the registration. If you think of a parallel to this, it would be like privatizing the car surveillance system and saying that vehicle control should be owned by Volvo, Saab, Mercedes and what else it might be of car brands, and you would be in an unfortunate double role by having ownership at the same time as having public authority control. This is in so far no position as the SV or the Workers' Party has come upon entirely by itself. This has been the way you have approached this problem from public authorities all along. Therefore, there is no under-use of SV, but the Ministry of Justice said the following in the hearing opinion: ‘The main purpose of a securities register is to demonstrate the rights of different actors to economic resources. This main function also has registers similar to those for real estate and the different registers of rights for different types of movable property [[ships, aircraft, etc.]] This is what the Ministry of Justice says, and the principle approach to what a securities register is. That means that what we're adding here is a purely ideological privatisation of a register that's supposed to be neutral and impartial, which can now unfortunately come into a situation where questions can be asked about their impartiality and neutrality. Then you might think that the securities registration we have today, has not been good enough in some area, that this securities register, by practical application in reality, would not have proved to be good enough, but neither is it. The Minister of Finance wrote the following in a letter to the Committee: ‘The Ministry does not have information indicating that the VPS is ‘low in efficiency, lack of security or otherwise is not functioning well’ in relation to its current operations and organisation.’ In that case, every conceivable argument for privatising the securities registration has been torpedoed. The following conditions are left, which is essentially the only one, and I also saw this very clearly from the statements made by the rapporteur, namely that it is apparently an international trend, and that this wants Right because this is part of the privatisation ideology of the Right. I think the arguments for this are unimaginably weak. They are extremely weak, and rarely have we seen weaker arguments for why one wants to privatize a public register, which should be neutral and impartial in all its beings, and which all actors, regardless of the position one might have in the securities market, have the same confidence. Rather, from the point of view of the SV's point of view, one should have gone the opposite way, from the foundation to the fact that this became a purely public matter, as all other imaginable, comparable registers in our society are, that is, that there is public authority control over this, and in that way it is ensured that everyone has the same neutrality to all the different actors. So a little bit about the material content of this. What is also amazing about this is that you take several steps in the wrong direction in relation to what you should have done. This means that it should have been so, regardless of whether you choose to privatize or not, that at least there was transparency, transparency, greater degree of what is internationally called ‘transparency’. ‘Transparency’ is the word that we from Norway and also internationally use increasingly related to transparency, transparency, the ability to see who actually owns, who actually tries to hide, for example. economic crime. Overall, Norwegian aid work is ‘transparency’ one of the most important, i.e. transparency in the availability of the money provided by Norway in the various countries. In all efforts to combat economic crime internationally, transparency is one of the most important positions, not only in Norway, but throughout the Western world, precisely because one wants to have transparency in any accounts or other transaction activity that can fund terrorism. It was supposed to be believed that after what happened on 11 September, larger parts of the Storting had taken over seriously. Instead, you choose to go completely the opposite way: you have to have the opportunity to register your trust, so that you still have the opportunity to keep those who are the real owners of a company hidden. This applies to employees, which applies to the press, but not least to authorities. Both the Credit Authority and the Ecocrime, which are the two public bodies that we have appointed to meet the needs of society to fight economic crime, strongly warn against what we see here. Let me just briefly quote what Økokrim says, and this is reflected in the proposition put forward for Stortinget: ‘The provisions in force with direct registration of ownership shall provide for the prompt, effective and almost discreet handling of such cases. ECOCRIM doubts that this could be maintained by transition to AIFM registration, even if, in the view of the panel, AIFMs are required to disclose the identity of the real owners.’;» The system we have has been an efficient, operational system for Ecocrime and also for the credit supervision. They want more transparency. In this position, with the support of the Government and the Advance Party, the majority goes the opposite way. It is necessary to have more secrecy and make it more difficult for public authorities to gain transparency. In my view, this is a step in the fundamentally wrong direction. What should have been in this was, of course, a greater degree of opportunity to combat financial crime, to gain insight into who are the real owners. Only in recent years, in the case of Norwegian business and press speculation about who owns the various types of securities that have an influence on ownership of companies, will it be seen that transparency had been a good thing. The right of access had been a good thing, and that's what SV's starting point is, and that's why we strongly warn against what Storting here is doing. There might be no reason to dramatize this. At the same time, we strongly warn against this. We don't understand why you're doing this. All the factual, professional arguments go completely counter-productive. The only thing the government has come up with is that this is usually international, which in any other debate would be a very thin argument. Any competent hearing body which delivers an opinion on this matter shall warn against this. Still, you choose to do that. That is the argument that this should be a limited liability company, so that it is possible for other actors to enter and establish competing securities registers, based on a blind belief that competition is the answer to everything. The probability of this happening is, of course, small disappearing. This has not happened in any other comparable country, nor will it happen in Norway, simply because the Norwegian securities market is too small. This means that here again a kind of narrow ideological justification has been laid down, and then it should be possible for anyone to set up an alternative register, and then you have to compete in this, believing that this means that the costs will be reduced for those who register securities. Something more naive than this is probably hard to imagine. [[President clubs]] I have to say that when you are going to sum up this matter in a few years' time, I hope not that there have been dramatic things happening. [[The President Clubs Again]] I hope that the bulk of the population will see that the direction SV has pointed out had been the right one to go today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e351	The President requests that the representative stick to the time measured.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e354	Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e361	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e365	The issue we are dealing with today is essentially two important issues: firstly, whether to abolish the monopoly that the Swedish Securities Agency currently has, and replace it with a concession requirement, and secondly, whether to reorganise the Central Bank into a limited liability company. But I want to make it clear that even though this is about two aspects, in my opinion, there are also two aspects of the same matter, for this is closely linked. To understand what we're doing now, it's important to look at what's happening and has happened around us when it's about technology and economic relationships especially in the Western world in recent years. For the past 10 to 20 years, there has been a constant softening of legislation in the case of capital flows, both in Norway and between Norway and the rest of the world, not least since the entry into the EEA Agreement. At the same time, technology has also made great progress. For example, just 10 years ago. The Internet is completely unknown. These changes also mean that we need securities institutions that can take care of securities trading through both sound and safe arrangements in a new market situation. That's what's the main purpose of the conversion. We can no longer wallow Norway through a monopoly system. We have obligations to give operators in the market what they need to do to make efficient and safe trades, even beyond the borders of the country. When we remove the monopoly, we need to give the Swedish Securities Centre an appropriate form of organisation that enables them to operate in this market in the most efficient and functional way possible. Winding up the monopoly and turning the Swedish Securities Centre into a limited liability company are, as I said, two aspects of the same case. Converting the Security Centre into a limited liability company gives the Central Security Centre the best possibilities to compete. It also provides a better basis for cooperating with, for example: other Nordic securities registers. Elles, as the department also refers to, so that if the market is open, the very threat of new competitors will cause the company to keep its prices at a moderate level. In that case, when it comes to matters relating to registration obligations, to the registration of managers, to the obligation to hold securities and to the right of access to the securities register, I have to say that I have a certain understanding of some counterparties that have been raised. I see that on some of these issues there may be conflicts of interest between social interests and market interests. I still mean that the government here has found a good balance between these matters. Otherwise, this is an area where there is constant development, and I am sure that the Government will follow closely and come back with any adjustments if necessary. I also believe that after recent events, some things will be done internationally. through FATF, which is already named, which does what they can to help you find good solutions. All in all – the Christian People's Party is behind the recommendation that leads in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e380	The centre party opposed the fact that Børsen became a listed company. We wanted a neutral tool in which all actors are similar. It is, after all, an institution to control compliance with driving rules. Now DnB has 10 pst. of the shares in Oslo Stock Exchange, and Hydro is holding 8 pst. of the shares. Exchange fees were significantly increased this year. There was room for that in relation to fees at our neighboring stock exchanges. A little Oslo Børs has been driven effectively. Now the stock turnover is becoming more expensive for the owners to earn more. The little actors are the ones who are losing it. The centre party strongly disagrees with the conversion to AS and the listing of the Securities Centre. The central stock exchange today works well. The anti-transformation ideas are many from important bodies that have participated in hearings and investigations. The listed Securities Centre may become a new and more closed monopoly. I think that a way back or a correction of the decision that is now being taken will be difficult. Many have been engaged in maintaining a Norwegian-owned and Norwegian-based security centre. The centre party is concerned that the services related to the issue and placing on the market of Norwegian securities in Norway will be reduced. We can experience that the new CSD is being purchased, and that we are getting mergers, or that there are foreign establishments taking over services in Norway. In the event of future changes, national wishes and needs will be less focused, including the possibility of public transparency and supervision. In this case, the question of transparency is lost. The law makes money laundering easier, many people say. The majority of investors hide behind an administrator who does not need to identify whom he acts on behalf of. For this purpose, debt securities and derivatives are involved. Sometimes it's Ecocrime that doesn't get answers as easily. In winter it was the other owners in Kværner who strove, because they have had such rules abroad for quite a long time. The Norwegian Press Association believes it is a violation of democratic principle to introduce increased secrecy. ‘Public transparency is essential for a free and independent press to detect critical financial market conditions’, says Norsk Pressebund. Norway is taking this part of the legislative change in the opposite direction of what is happening in other countries, after the signals we have received. The centre party is concerned that the financial market fund, which is now being set up, will also contribute funds to public information and basic education related to the stock market in general and to the saving of shares in particular, and we are pleased that there is a majority for it in the position we are now discussing. Finally, I will only make a small change in the setting on page 47, where the Central Party has a note with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and where it says that we support the second to fourth sentence of section 12-2 third paragraph. In the fourth sentence it is stated that ‘The Securities Centre shall then be wound up’. The centre party does not support the fourth sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e403	Well, that's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e408	I note with satisfaction that it is a majority of the committee which, according to the vote, essentially concludes on the Government's proposal. It's hers in the question of the corporate form of the VPS. Let me say so that those who thought they would lure me into a violent ideological debate related to the concept of a public limited liability company, I think they will be disappointed. I don't see anything ideological in this at all. I see it as an issue of appropriateness – i.e. I see it as part of a line aimed at meeting the challenges of the future in a market under strong change. I would say that I use exactly the same arguments as the Labour Party Government Council used to do the same with the stock exchange. And I record that all the arguments that were then used by the Workers' Party are now used by the government parties and by the Advance Party, while the Workers' Party has turned around. It is not likely that the stock exchange worked unsatisfactoryly before transformation. In fact, the arguments put forward at the time by the Workers' Party in order to choose the form of public limited-liability companies were such as to allow the stock exchange to function satisfactorily in the future. In relation to a few questions raised, I would like to say that I noticed that a majority of the committee is asking the ministry to ‘examine further questions relating to the transparency of debt securities both to the public and to the issuer of the debt securities’. We're going to do that. Similarly, I would like to comment on the fact that the Committee has stressed the importance of providing for rapid and effective review procedures. As regards sales revenue in the conversion of the VPS, I have noticed that a majority of the Committee supports the Government’s proposal that the part of the remuneration corresponding to the ‘sum of the value of the VPS’ transfer some assets in isolation, less the central bank’s obligations, to a financial market fund. This majority agree to establish a common fund for this money and the money transferred in connection with the sale of Oslo Børs. In addition, the majority of the Committee stressed that the Fund’s resources ‘must be used for research, training and general information related to financial market issues’. The majority have shown that ‘there is a need for increased knowledge of the stock market in general and stock saving in particular’. I agree. This is a very wide area. The majority have also expressed some views on the composition of the Board of Directors of the Fund. I take note of this. I want to take this into account when designing the fund's statutes and the composition of the board of directors. In conclusion, I would just like to say about the debate on whether Norway is going in the opposite direction to the international trend, that it is turning it completely upside down. Here, Norway is moving in a direction that is internationally consistent. I think it's right to say — and it's not on behalf of this government's relatively short efforts, but on behalf of a majority of people who have been involved in transparency and control over several years — that Norway is in the forefront of international action in this area. It's also highlighted on a number of occasions. As far as transparency is concerned, the representative, Mr Djupedal, used the word ‘transparency’, which we use on the Norwegian side. And that covers the international debate. That's exactly what I'm saying. In fact, Norway is in the forefront of this debate and is often highlighted as an example of what other countries are planning to do. It's not about hidden owners at all. The control authorities will have full transparency. I also stress that it has a self-esteem that Norwegian investors can operate in Norway and, as far as possible, the international market on the same terms as internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e428	It was interesting that the Council of State considered that this was not an «ideological» question but a «property question». If that were true, it would probably mean that many of the actors who have to deal with the securities register would agree that it was appropriate that this should be organised in this way, simply because all the different actors – that is, everything from the Statistical Central Bureau, the Ecocrim and the Credit Authority to the Ministry of Justice, or whoever it might be – thought this was an appropriate way to organise this. The striking thing is that they don't. That's what's striking. None of these actors believe – and they are the ones dealing with this register, or for that matter the Press Association – that this is an appropriate way of organising the register. On the contrary, all those concerned, without exception, warn against this way of organising the register. You can see that there's simply less transparency, that this kind of ownership can be cross-cutting when it's privatized, and that this register can be questioned if it's neutral. We really get to hope that this is going to be a neutral register, for all intents and purposes. My wish is not that it should not be. But just that it can be raised as a problem is in itself unfortunate for securities registration. The purpose of this, which the Ministry of Justice is very clear in its hearing opinion, which is also mentioned in the suspension, is simply to demonstrate the rights of different actors to economic resources. It is the main purpose of this register – and that all thus have to have the same relationship with this, the same neutrality. I am surprised when you say that this is appropriate. Well, then you have to point out which actors it means, except those who are in this market as actors, who own securities, because they may have many hidden agendas that make them think this is appropriate. Buying into this can simply be a money placement. I have to challenge the Council of State on this: how can this be an appropriate consideration when there is no one other than the Government who believes it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e435	The replicator starts by saying that this is not an ideological question. With reference to my post, I have to say that ‘this’ only covers the question of the form of organisation. There are several ideological elements here, including: the view that SV always expresses that it is important that we isolate ourselves internationally as much as possible and move in line with international minorities. It's a vision I don't share. That's probably an ideological question, at least it sucks. When it comes to the choice of organisational form, I don't think it's so stupid to put a certain emphasis on what those who operate in the market and who actually use the service mean. I register that it means SV otherwise, mostly. Of course, what the Central Statistical Office had to think is interesting, but they're not primarily an actor here. The fact that the Press Association could wish for other rules is possible, but it is not primarily due to tabloid considerations that control and transparency are important in this area, it is for the sake of the transparency of the control bodies. It's going to be completely satisfactory with this arrangement. When choosing an organisational form, I think it is important not to look back at what has happened. Then you don't see what comes out of future technological challenges. This is a market under strong change, where new technologies are going to be strongly introduced. I think it is good that monopoly should be abolished, and that the actors should step up. There may not be many private actors, but the assurance that this can be done is in itself enough for the actor, possibly the actors, to tighten up and provide the best possible services. I am not so very surprised by SV's argument in this case, they are basically following a traditional pattern, but that the Workers' Party suddenly turns on the arguments in relation to the arguments they used in the stock exchange case, I am somewhat more surprised about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e446	I'm not going into a long polemics with the Minister of Finance. I just want to warn him against being flat and vulgar, as I perceive his last posts. This is simply a vulgarization of the position and vulgarisation of a debate. This is a matter of great ideological interest, principle interest and appropriateness, where there are differing views that stand against each other. The arguments put forward by the Government and the Council of State in their very scarce speeches are not of a material nature. It is said that there is an international trend that makes this necessary. But let me just quote the State Council itself, who has written the following to the Committee: ‘The Ministry does not have information indicating that the VPS is ‘low in efficiency, lack of security or otherwise is not functioning well’ in relation to its current operations and organisation.’ This means that there is nothing wrong with VPS being able to participate in international cooperation in today's organisational form, and so does it. It is not the form of organisation as such that today prevents the VPS from doing what it believes is right to do in order for this registration to be neutral and objective also internationally. It is not the organisational form that prevents this. What is the point, and that is the whole point of departure and the reason why so many important actors, including the Ministry of Justice, are warning against this, is that in different areas of transparency, cross-cutting interests or what it may be, there may be doubts as to whether the securities register has the neutrality that such a register should, of course, have. I would strongly warn against the kind of debate that the Council of State puts up. I hope that he refrains from it in the future, and that he sees that the arguments that SV comes into the setting are not only SV's arguments, but also shared by a number of the heavy actors. It means, in my opinion, that the arguments of the Council of State started with, that SV is isolating itself from Europe and allying with minorities, contribute to a kind of debate that a responsible Council of State, with all due respect, should refrain from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e456	The President would point out that referring to the Council of State as a vulgar is not particularly parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e459	That was the form of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e466	I am fundamentally immune to the shell word of the representative, Djupedal. Life is too short to care about that. When it comes to advice on the form of debate, I'm equally immune. My characteristic of SV I intend to continue. I am glad, after 20–25 years of parliamentary practice, to see that SV follows some significant international trend. But there are many years left. On the question of what has been said about the VPS, I know everything in the letter that has been quoted a number of times. However, even if an institution works well today, it is not said that it will work well towards new, future challenges. Exactly the same could have been said about Oslo Børs. It has worked well, and it was not the government of the time or the majority of the population that Oslo Børs worked unsatisfactoryly, and that it was therefore necessary to choose a form of public limited-liability company, but that it was a better form of meeting future challenges. It's a substantive argument, no matter what is said. The institution itself agrees with this, and whoever wears the shoe sometimes has some points that you should pay attention to. In relation to the discussion that SV has also had, that it was the special rule in Norway that you should not have the opportunity to register under management, I have to say that this would lead to discrimination against Norwegian investors. It must also be said that the rules on registration, as they are today, are very easy to circumvent, inter alia. using foreign subsidiaries and derivatives. To enter an international market and assess rules, especially if you are a small nation, you should also take a look at the realities. And the reality is that today's possibilities of circumvention are so great that the rules have little meaning. It is therefore important to follow what is an international legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e478	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e496	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e505	The so-called one-year rule in our tax legislation is not as simple as you might initially think. The current rule is that a general tax law in Norway falls under temporary residence abroad if taxpayers stay abroad for more than one year on a continuous basis and can prove that they are taxable as residents of their country of residence. The new exemption provisions are proposed limited to taxes on employee income at work outside the realm during a stay abroad. In other words, the requirement that taxpayers must document tax obligations as residents of the Member State of residence does not continue in the new provisions. In the case of residence outside Norway, the current one-year requirement for residence abroad will be maintained. The minority, consisting of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, have their own views on it and will propose the introduction of a 6-month rule instead of the proposed 12-month rule. It is important to clarify that the provisions do not apply where Norway has exclusive taxation of income. It has been said in previous budgetary proceedings here in the Chamber that one in the bill should take account of the activities of humanitarian organisations abroad. In order to ensure this, the law will include taxes on all employee income, including natural benefits from private employers, irrespective of the country of residence's internal tax legislation, and regardless of whether there is actual tax in the country of residence. Here I would like to make it clear that the majority of the committee has dealt specifically with the mention of the employer’s contribution in the proposal, and I refer here to point 6.15 and to letters from the Ministry of Finance which further explain the rules on the employer’s obligation to pay employers’ contributions in accordance with public policy. Letters from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Stortinget also show that they have laid down the provisions of the 2002 Social Security Decision of the Stortinget and that regulations with similar content have also been given for previous years. Furthermore, it appears that this regulation has a phrase that is ‘less fortunate’, which we write, assuming that there are exceptions to the obligation to pay an employer’s fee, but that, according to the department’s knowledge, such an exception does not actually exist, which they have attributed to us in letters. In this respect, the Committee considers that the unclear regulatory provisions may have contributed to creating uncertainties relating to the extent of the obligation to pay employers' contributions, etc., and that the practice of the rules may thus have been uneven. The Committee assumes that this area will be cleaned up and that these uncertainties will now be removed. The Committee has also addressed other parts of the proposal. The majority of the Committee considers that it is important to have equal opportunities, that ordinary salaries and payments of social security are treated as equivalent – i.e. wages and salaries for work carried out once the work is started, a real employment that taxpayers have not foreseen or planned to interrupt or cease to be sick. The majority also indicates that taxpayers actually have to stay abroad. Where one of the main reasons for the one-year rule is to prevent a deterioration in the external framework of Norwegian enterprises, it must be assumed that the employment contracts concluded for foreign residence take account of the impact of the one-year rule, and therefore that taxpayers need predictability on this point as well. Therefore, it is emphasised by the majority that benefits from social security which compensate directly for the loss of income expected by taxpayers from temporary employment must initially be counted as employee income. This is an important point that needs to be included in the further work. I would also like to say that it has been difficult for the committee to involve itself in this matter. We have had hearings – and there have been different views – and we have had correspondence with the ministry. The Committee has had to do that. However, on the part of the Committee, there has been a need to focus on simplifying and improving current legislation and, in particular, on the competitiveness of businesses and the fairness and fairness of the rules. These are the headings of the work we've done in this setting. From the point of view of some enterprises — as also emerged from the hearing — there was doubts as to whether this was a simplification, etc. It was claimed that this could probably be a deterioration. But let it be clear: on the part of the Committee, the intention has been – as I said – simplification, taking into account the competitiveness of businesses, and that the rules should be fair and fair. In particular, this point concerns documentation requirements, which are not so strong. In our opinion, it must at least be an improvement that lies within this field. In our view, it is important that the regulatory changes highlight the focus on competitive solutions for an increasingly mobile workforce based in Norway, as we will, and that it not only involves solutions that gradually make other countries' rules more attractive to an internationally focused and competitive business. These are my closing words in this matter. I do not ignore the fact that we may have to come back to this again if it does not work as I have now ordered at the end of my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e528	For the Progress Party, it is important to have a most transparent and simple tax system. In this way, the cost of administering the legislation can be reduced to a minimum. A complex tax system requires large administrative costs, both private and public, to enforce the legislation. I agree with the case-speaker that it is positive that one reduces the requirement for proof of a tax liability as a resident of another country. Besides, there's not so much positive in this proposition. The strongest objection we have is that the alternative method of distribution is too complicated and too difficult to practice. And it's not just the Progress Party as mine. The taxpayers' association wrote the following about the alternative method of distribution in a spring 2001 issue: ‘In the view of the Tax Payer Association, this is a very complex method of calculation which will require significant use of resources by the Equation Authorities and which, after experience in the practice of the Nordic Agreement, we know that taxpayers have major difficulties in understanding. If you want to focus on a single system, you should also be completely exempted, without affecting the taxation of other income. [[distribution method]] Nor does the ministry conceal that this method is complicated, but a sample in an exchange of letters – to which the case-speaker was in it – to correct some of that impression. In a letter dated 30 April to the case spokesperson, Tore Nordtun, the department tries to show some practical examples of how the alternative method of distribution works. But already on May 6th, a new letter comes from the department, and it says the following: ‘I refer to the letter of 25 April 2002 from the Financial Committee and my letter of reply dated 30 April 2002, which unfortunately contains some errors in the estimates calculated using the alternative method of distribution.’ [[Method 2]] And on the other hand, «The distribution of the tax on Norwegian and foreign income is made for the personal income and general income as a whole, broken down by the ratio of gross non-resident income to gross domestic income to total gross income. This distribution is correct when the tax is allocated to the income of persons. However, the distribution of the tax on general income is to be broken down by net general income. The distribution of taxes into Norwegian and foreign income respectively must therefore be made separately for the income of persons and the general income.» Then we'll end up with: ‘In addition, there are some summation errors.’ With this written from the department, all doubt about how this rule should be practiced should be cleared by the road. My point is, when the department doesn't even understand these rules on the first attempt, it's hard to expect companies that have temporarily added abroad to understand them. The Progress Party would therefore like to simplify these rules by keeping the progress of its revenues in Norway by shortening the deductions, minimum deductions and deductions from the top tax, so that only a deduction is made in relation to the number of months it has added in Norway during the income year. In addition, we're going to go in for a six-month rule instead of the 12-month rule. A six-month rule will equate Norwegian enterprises with their competitors in many countries and also reduce the administrative extra work on foreign residence. Therefore, such a change will improve the conditions of competition for Norwegian businesses to which this rule applies, and it will also improve the conditions for workers to be able to increase their skills by working abroad. In the light of this review, I would therefore like to make my proposal to the Advance Party and the Coastal Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e564	Gjermund Hagesetter has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e567	Initially, I would like to say that the government parties support the case rapporteur in this case. Today’s legislation on taxpayers who are temporarily abroad has complex and unfortunate aspects. The changes we are making in the tax law today, in the so-called one-year rule, will make it easier for Norwegian workers and enterprises abroad. Among other things, the difficult documentation requirement is removed and clearer limits are set for home visits. Under today’s one-year rule, the general tax liability to Norway will disappear when taxpayers stay temporarily abroad for at least one year and also prove that they are taxable in the country of residence. We now go in to replace the current one-year rule with a new provision exempting foreign employee income from taxes in Norway if the taxpayer has a continuous foreign employment of at least one year. Thus, the condition of a documented tax liability in the country of residence is removed. This makes it easier for employees in general. However, it will in particular be easier for professionals who have had problems meeting the documentation requirement, for example: misioners and auxiliary workers. The documentation requirement has been problematic for both the tax and the Equation Act. For example, some countries have not a functioning tax system, or they are unwilling to issue such evidence. In the past, the vast majority of misioners and auxiliary workers have also received the equal treatment that is consistent with what is now proposed in the new one-year rule, namely not the tax obligation on Norway. It's very positive that we now get the tax exemption as it's been practiced at most of the equality offices. The majority of the financial committee has pointed to the unfairness of the heterogeneous practices that have existed in the last few years with regard to the taxation of millionaires and auxiliary workers, and we assume that it is now organised in such a way that taxpayers are properly treated. Staying and non-taxable earnings abroad shall not change the relationship with Norwegian social security. The proposal for a new one-year rule continues with the current system that wages and salaries abroad entail social security contributions and employers' contributions, even if the remuneration is otherwise tax-free. It has been found that previous regulations in relation to the employer’s obligation to pay an employer’s fee have been unclear. For many years it has been a practice not to pay an employer’s fee for the salary received by misioners and auxiliary workers during their stay abroad. This practice has been based on and consistent with Storting’s intentions in relation to aid work and humanitarian organisations. I assume that this is clarified in new regulations, and we expect the government to come back to this on an appropriate occasion. We must be able to expect clear rules and uniform practice of the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e584	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 286]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e600	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e609	With its traditional local and regional links, savings banks have played an important and important role in both the personal and business markets for well over 200 years. This local and regional proximity has brought with it natural adaptations as time and circumstances have shifted. History shows that savings banks too have had their times of crisis, but the savings bank idea has survived. Perhaps because of this mixture of tradition and proximity, there is often involvement — and a little temperature — when changes relating to savings banks are to be considered. From my point of view, what we are now doing is a consequence of the developments we've seen over the last two decades. We have received a two-part outline in the Norwegian savings bank structure, with a group where the units have been large through mergers, and another group, which has largely chosen to continue as smaller, independent units. This division also gives us some differentiation when it comes to niche options and customer base. Savings banks represent an important part of the financial market and the financial industry. We want them to do the same in the future. Therefore, it is important from time to time to correct the industry’s framework conditions, so that it is as timely as possible to adapt the current challenges. The question of giving the savings banks that want to do so would be able to turn to a limited liability company was thoroughly discussed in February of this year, when the Stortinget handled the credit message in 2000. This process ended with a large majority agreeing to the conversion of savings banks if this was combined with a reasonable buying-in protection and a strengthening of the basic funds' position. The government was asked to come back with an odd proposal in line with this. That's this proposition Odelstinget now has to deal with. The proposal shall provide for the opening of savings banks to be converted into a public limited-liability company or public limited-liability company. It is further suggested that decisions on conversion may be taken by the savings bank with the agreement of at least two thirds of the votes cast. Axes which do not go to the holders of basic funds in the event of transfers of basic funds certificates to axes shall be transferred to a foundation to be regulated by the Financial Act. The main objective of the Foundation shall be to manage the ownership of the revolving savings bank. In the proposition, there will be, among other things. agree that the formation shall have a long-term and stable objective with its ownership and that it shall continue the savings banking tradition. It is also advisable not to add or trust in the Foundation nor to be a member of or a trustee of the second-hand savings bank. It is also suggested that the foundation should have 10 pst. or more in order to comply with the Financial Act and to enable the savings bank to use the word "spare" or "sparebank" in its company name. It is also ensured that changes in the statutes and decisions of the Foundation to sell axles in the current savings bank require two thirds of the majority. The majority think that one, among other things: by means of the measures listed above, the height of a healthy and good continuation of the savings bank tradition, including in a second-hand savings bank, while these measures will provide a reasonable protection against buying-in. In addition to the fact that the dividend tax has already been extinguished, the proposal provides that the equation value of the basic fund certificate is to be set at 65 pst. of price/sal value and that the holders of basic funds may choose up to 40 pst. by the board of directors of the savings bank. All of this will provide a significant strengthening of the basic fund certificate's position. It is clear that a large majority of savings banks — including the large ones — do not want to make use of the conversion facility if the basic fund certificate still appears to be an attractive equity instrument. Therefore, the measures that I just mentioned are so important. We have also noted that the Department will consider a proposal from the Reserve Bank Association for the amendment of the rules for the distribution of dividends in the base fund certificates. Such a change, if any, would further contribute to making the basic fund certificate a real alternative to axes when it relates to properties such as equity instruments. There is a large number of people behind the main moves in this proposition. It's also a minority that has come to a different conclusion. I expect that the minority will do more for its positions and conclusions. In the Christian People's Party, we are sure that the changes we are now making will bring about a modernisation and a adaptation that will renew and strengthen the overall savings banking business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e639	The case spokesperson did well in this case in such a good way that it covered all the points that the Labour Party had to make, so I don't need to say so much. But I think it's important to repeat that savings banks are now able to convert to AS, and I don't think it will have to go beyond the structure in such a way that many people have said it will, that it will be negative for the small savings banks. But it is clear that it is absolutely necessary to look at the basic fund certificate in this context. What has been mentioned here from the entire Committee that a request from the Government looks at the rules for the distribution of dividends in the base fund certificate holders is very important. I've understood that the government is set to do, and that's basically just what I want to do. When we say from the Labour Party in our own comment that the measures that are now being implemented will be sufficient, we actually mean what I just said, to look at the rules for dividend distribution in the basic fund certificate holders. These things must be viewed in a context. I believe that what has now been put forward in the proposal as a follow-up to the credit message we dealt with in February when we in principle agreed to the proposal, and the comments that the Committee has made to make the proposal that came from the Government, in addition, will take care of such a structure in the savings banks that the whole financial market will be set on fire in the future. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e650	The representative Ranveig Frøiland has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e653	The Government states that the King shall lay down conditions for the approval of the transformation, including conditions attached to the statutes. This means that the government sees a rather extensive access to this way of regulating transformed savings banks in addition to that resulting from the legal rules now given by the Stortinget. The conversion of savings banks into limited liability companies makes the institution subject to the regulation previously laid down by the Stortinget for commercial banks. In our opinion, we would like to stress that this should not be the intention, namely that a transformed savings bank should initially operate under framework conditions which differ from those applicable to other banks subject to the same framework legislation. I would like to stress that this must be the starting point for setting any conditions for transformation. It is also the case, if one goes further to the issue of regulation of implementation and effect of transformation, that only in exceptional cases may it be appropriate to impose restrictions on ownership other than those resulting from the system of distribution of the formation model and the general rules applicable to such institutions. The Progress Party believes that the Government should come back with legislative proposals, which also apply to converted savings banks, in the context of the assessment of ownership restrictions and ownership control in financial institutions. So to the business of the foundation itself. It may be difficult to speak of voting in the general meeting of the bank all the time when the first sentence does not regulate other than the sale of shares, which is a matter of ownership which is entirely irrelevant to the bank. The progress party agrees with the points of view in the second sentence, but we will show that both the bill and the review in the proposition are unprecise at this point. We therefore propose a provision to clarify that if the parent company's general meeting is to decide on the sale of shares in the bank, its voting rights shall be determined by the general meeting of the foundation. I would also like to stress that the Progress Party does not agree with the Minister for Finance when he writes the following to the Group of the Progressive Party on 3 May: ‘... would be natural to make conditional upon the parent company’s statutes specifying that it is the parent company’s general meeting... to deal with any issue of sale or other disposal of shares.’; So a little bit to the individual paragraphs: I want to refer to the second sentence of Section 2-21, which decides that the fund holders can be transferred cash instead of shares in connection with the transformation. The Progress Party here refers to a letter from the Minister of Finance to the Enlarged Group of the Progressive Party, and will, to a large extent, join the Minister of Finance. But I would like to stress the importance that those who are redeemed should not be placed worse than those who receive shares. And this is central, because if you're going to give cash transfers to some of the fund owners, they have to pay out the real value that they would actually get if they had got shares instead of money. So a little bit about taxes: it is surprising that fiscal conditions are not mentioned in this proposition when the Minister of Finance in his letter to the Committee points to the unfortunate fact that the conversion of savings banks is hindered by inappropriate tax rules, among other things. non-access to the transfer of tax positions. The Progress Party assumes that the practice of relaxation under the Tax Act in the event of a share exchange will also be followed by the exchange of the Basic Fund certificate in respect of shares in the converted bank. At the end of the day, I will address the proposal that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e677	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e680	The debate on the ability of savings banks to transform into a limited liability company – the purely principle approach to this – had the Stortingen linked to the credit notification. I am therefore not going to repeat this debate, because it was a long and also a partly clarifying debate. Let me just briefly say that the background that Stortinget has now got this case processed is initially the desire of Mutual NOR to convert to a stock exchange. Mutual NOR is Norway's second largest savings bank. It is a constellation that has grown over many years within the old regimes, i.e. within the scope of the savings bank law, so that as such it has not prevented savings banks from operating – to say – changes in line with the market's desire to increase. Mutual NOR is Norway’s second largest financial group and is thus a significant player. Our concern has been that we believe that the ownership of savings banks has been an appropriate way of organizing a part of our banking system, which has worked satisfactorily towards financing local and regional business in particular, but also for ordinary citizens' ability to obtain loans to meet the different needs. We now record that the majority will give Mutual NOR access to this – or: What you really give is a general access. This could mean that over time we will face a situation in which the savings banking system, as we know it historically, will be phased out in the worst case. Hopefully this won't happen. It is my wish that we still manage to maintain the basic fund certificates, which are, in fact, a peculiarity, but which nevertheless is a securities instrument that has over time given good returns to those who have invested in it — even better returns than the total Oslo Stock Exchange index over the period 1995–2001. That means that mutual funds as such are a good paper if you think of returns. But we also accept and realize that this internationally is not a very easy-to-sell security, simply because it is unknown. This means that we have agreed to come back with an assessment of how the basic fund certificates can be made more attractive, but we are probably surprised that you are as modest as you are here. That is why, as many parties have joined, we have expressed the desire to see how this develops, and whether there are no other measures that can also be taken to make the basic fund certificates as such even more attractive. Let me then take up the suggestions that SV has with others in this setting. As I said, we have had the big debate in the past. Now it's basically just to see what evolution will be like. It is a hope that the pressure from savings banks to transform will not be as strong as you may have reason to fear, and that many savings banks will nevertheless choose the kind of ownership you have today, and not feel the pressure to convert to a stock savings bank. The basis for fearing that it can happen is big, simply because Mutual NOR is such a totally dominant player in the trading of basic fund certificates, and that means that when these will now move to shares, there will be very few larger units left – if any – that will have this kind of basic fund certificate. But this will only be up to the future to show. We hope that the savings bank service as such will also cope with that change, and that the savings bank service despite the fact that Mutual NOR will disappear into another type of ownership, will live and have good conditions for the benefit of Norwegian consumers and Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e691	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e694	The government and the support players here in Stortinget have provided a quick treatment of the transformation access for the savings banks of AS and the law needed – but not quickly enough, according to a comment in the media to DnB’s purchase of Storebrand. It was probably mutual NOR they liked most, but they didn't have time to wait that long, it was said. If the situation is such that Mutual NOR does not settle for the changes that are now taking place, but becomes a commercial bank and eventually a part of someone else, it is a strange result of this treatment. The savings bank system, in my opinion, is too important to be undermined, as it will then be. I think the situation is amazing. A year ago, the Christian People's Party and the Left said that they were strongly opposed to giving savings banks access to become AS. And there is nothing else that has changed, except that the Right has become a government partner. There are a lot of people around the country who are disappointed by that turnaround. The improvements in the current position of the basic funds could have been achieved in any case. In particular, the centre party would point to a desired relaxation of the limitation of the basic fund certificate regulation in the distribution of dividends between the basic fund certificate capital and the so-called owner-less own funds. The Central Party considers that the arguments put forward by the Reserve Bank Association should be implemented. We're looking forward to the increase in flexibility for the banks, and then we can determine a different distribution than that resulting from the proportion of the capital. Banking and finance buying-in appetites are increasing. In the last four to five years, it has also been almost free for those who want and who have access to capital. There have not been many political obstacles in the way. The driving force is that in some cases there is much more to profit from leading and owning a buy-in candidate than it is from running a bank in a good way. In 10 years, the number of employees in banks and finance is reduced from 40000 to 30000. The centre party believes it is time to investigate the cost and benefits – who has lost and who has won. It is time to get a basis to discuss whether we have enough legislation and other policy tools to safeguard the interests of those who lose. The trade union, the Finansförbundet, says that the cuts within the banking and insurance sectors have given lower offers to the customers. Customer satisfaction has gone down, the queues have gone further, and there have been worse offers, especially for those who want a physical offer in the bank – meeting people. ‘Fusion is not free’ is the title of the Evening Post editorial article with themes SAS/Braathens and DnB/Storebrand. One of the statements there is that less consideration is given to those who lose than to those who win. The centre party is going to propose a study on the effects of the buying-in wave of the merger, which we are in the middle of. The savings banks, especially the small and small ones, contribute to real competition outside the most central areas. They have the best offers to customers in very many cases. A buying-in protection system will also exist after this amendment, but significantly weaker than before. Those who want the bank to become a piece of a stock exchange get easier games than they've had before. The experience from Sweden shows how quickly the changes can happen when such a dam first breaks down. I sincerely hope that the savings banks in their own statutes will maintain – or introduce – rules that provide a better buying-in protection than what the law will now provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e715	Today's treatment of Ot.prp. No 59 is a follow-up to the processing of the credit notification earlier in the year, where a clear majority went in to open up to convert savings banks into limited liability companies. The left hand hold is the same now as then. Savings banks are important for providing a good financial supply, both for individuals and for businesses throughout Norway. In particular, savings banks are important for small businesses and businesses in the district of Norway. We mean the proposals that have been made, in a good way, bearing in mind the need for a large financial group that Mutual NOR has for equity, while at the same time ensuring that the banks that want it can retain their savings banking organisation. Thus, we will be able to provide both good conditions and secure the capital supply for the largest banks, while at the same time as we take care of and further develop the many smaller savings banks. In order to ensure this, during the examination of the credit notification in February, the Committee entered in order to strengthen its position and ensure a sound buy-in protection for savings banks wishing to convert to equity savings banks. Both of these considerations are well understood in the proposition we are dealing with today. The government has also cooperated with others. the savings bank units involved in the operation of the proposition. Among other things, it is a question of lawmaking that the foundation should have a stable and long-term ownership, and that qualified pluralities should be required in the hall of axes in the bank, in the same way as changes to the statutes are required. As requested by the Committee, measures are also proposed to strengthen the position of the Foundation. Among other things, basic fund certificates shall be valued at 65 pst. of the heading value, on the same line with axes not listed on the main Oslo Stock Exchange list. As mentioned earlier, the Left is busy that the many smaller savings banks become very good conditions. This is also why we have been sceptical about opening up to transformation. But we think that the measures that come here to strengthen the savings banks' position are adequate, so that we too have agreed to open it up for transformation. The use of resources between the Committee's plurality and the minority does not depend on the importance of a strong savings bank, but on the best way to secure and further develop savings banks as a good supply for both the individual citizen and the business community. We are referring to the proposals proposed by the Government here, and to which a broad majority of the Committee subscribes, this is a good way of doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e733	The aim of the transition is to facilitate savings banks to be freer to choose the type of capital they consider most appropriate. It implies, in my view, that the savings banks that wish to make use of this access will give the market greater competitiveness. It is an advantage for consumers, whether in the employee group or among the enterprise group. We took the main debate on this in connection with Storting's processing of the credit notification in February. Today’s debate has shown in many ways – perhaps with the exception of one post – that it is a very sobering approach to this, that savings banks will make use of the access it is now open to, with a sense of reason. I am pleased that the confidence in the savings bank service is now expressed by a broad majority in the Stortinget. In line with this proposal, general access to the conversion of savings banks into «share company or public limited-liability company» is proposed. The framework for such a transformation is governed by the law and is based on the applicable rules for the transformation of mutual societies and credit associations. However, the transformation of savings banks is a comprehensive process. As for most major concessions, there will be a need for conditions to take account of specific circumstances. This could be done, for example, by: conditions are laid down to ensure that the master UCITS holders and other stakeholders are adequately informed of the transformation and its impact. The content of the statutes of the new institutions may also need to be required. However, I do not find it natural that such rules are directly incorporated into the law. The legislative proposal also contains measures to strengthen the position of the Foundation certificates. Dividend taxes have already been removed and the wealth tax on basic funds certificates is proposed to be reduced. Further rules are proposed to strengthen the rights of representation of basic fund holders in the minds of savings banks. In the case of the right to dividend, such a change in the case of a change of regulation shall be assumed. I want to take a closer look at this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 288]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e754	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e761	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 4 and 5, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, reads: «The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for rules that provide transparency for the public in securities registers.» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e846	A different proposal is made for the first subparagraph. That is proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Financial Instruments Act shall be replaced by the following:The following financial instruments shall be entered in a securities register as referred to in Sections 3 to 1:1. shares and subscription rights of Norwegian public limited-liability companies,2. [[Investment Register Act]] option or future contracts or equivalent rights not listed on the Norwegian stock exchange which relate to financial instruments listed on the Norwegian stock exchange; and3. Norwegian bearer bonds.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e869	It goes over the second term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e927	The President notes that § 3-11 of the suspension is to be directed to § 3-1. We're going to vote for the first term. The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e945	It goes over the second and third terms. Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e994	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1090	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1121	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are going against the second, third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1176	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1274	An aberrant proposal is made for the first sentence of the second subparagraph. That is proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following provisions of the Financial Instruments Registration Act shall be replaced by the following:Article 6-7, second paragraph, first sentence:The Securities Register shall, once a year, send to rightholders an overview of their holdings of, or rights in, registered financial instruments, unless otherwise agreed.’; [[Investment Register Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1294	It is then voted over the remainder of the paragraph and the sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1523	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1571	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Progress Party to the first paragraph and to the third paragraph, the second and third sentences. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 12-2, first paragraph:The central bank of securities shall be converted into public limited-liability companies within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act, cf. Act of 13 June 1997 No. 45 on public limited-liability companies.§ 12-2, third paragraph, second and third sentences, shall be replaced by the following:The total amount of the investment shall be transferred to a financial market fund. The CSD shall then be wound up.’;» The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have notified that they are going against the suspension, except that the Centre Party supports the suspension in relation to the second and third sentences of the third subparagraph. The proposal of the Party for Progress, relating to the first paragraph and the second and third sentences of the third subparagraph, is first put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1597	And then the first and second paragraphs and the third paragraphs, the first sentence. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will vote against this. The President has understood that the Progress Party is now supporting the vote in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1604	Not the first term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1609	And then you're going to get a foot right over the first term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1630	The third paragraph, the second and third sentences, are addressed to voting. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1644	The third paragraph, the fourth sentence and the fourth and fifth paragraphs are added to voting. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e1946	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2492	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1997 79 on securities trading is amended as follows:The first paragraph of Section 3-2 shall be replaced by the following:If the transferee’s share of shares and/or rights to shares listed on the Norwegian stock exchange reaches or passes 1/20, 1/10, 3/20, 1/5, 1/4, 1/3, 2/5, 1/2, 2/3 or 9/10 of the share capital or an equivalent proportion of the voting rights held in the company, the transferor shall notify the acquisition to the stock exchange.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2534	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1997 79 on securities trading is amended as follows:§ 3-2 new eighth paragraph is replaced by the following:The Ministry may, by regulation, derogate from the rules of this paragraph for investment firms and life insurance companies.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2605	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2615	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2622	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2692	Paragraph 2-1(a) contains a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:(a) A person referred to in the first subparagraph who has a working stay outside the realm of at least six months' continuous duration is exempt from tax on employee income at work carried out outside the realm during the period of employment where, in the event that the income is taxed there. [[tax laws]] If non-religious employee income is not taxed by virtue of the law or administrative practice in which it is taxed, the employee income is exempt from tax if the length of employment outside the State is at least 12 months.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2733	The President here will vote on the proposal of the Advance Party and the Coastal Party in respect of Sections 6-32 and 15-4. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 6-32, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:In the case of taxpayers covered by point (a) of the eighth paragraph of Section 2-1, the lower and upper limits of the minimum deduction shall be reduced after the number of months in the year of income the taxpayer has been resident in the Kingdom.§ 15-4, the second sentence of the eighth subparagraph, shall be replaced by the following:In the case of taxpayers covered by point (a) of Section 2-1, the deduction of persons shall be reduced so as to be deducted according to the number of months in which the taxpayer has resided in the Kingdom.’ [[Uro in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2747	I think it's necessary to take this one more time, because it turns out to be a doubt about the voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2754	We shall vote on the proposal of the Advance Party and the Coastal Party regarding Sections 6-32 and 15-4. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2757	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2794	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2804	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2811	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess measures that may provide for a further strengthening of the certificates of basic funds as an equity instrument for unreformed savings banks.’;» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2863	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2884	There is a different proposal from the Socialist Left and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 40 on financial activities and financial institutions shall be amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2-19 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e2911	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3059	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3103	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3123	For the second sentence, there is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are moving towards the adjustment. Therefore, the proposal from the Progress Party and then the vote will be put to the vote. The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 40 on financial activities and financial institutions shall be amended as follows: the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 2-23 shall be replaced by the following: Similarly, the decision on the voting of the formation shall be taken at the general meeting of the parent company, if it is to decide on the sale of shares in the converted savings bank.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3173	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3240	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3336	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3381	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against the title of the law and the law as a whole. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-04-lower.ana.ud987e3395	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. We have then come through an extensive voting in cases No. 1 to 3.
