ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e46	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 206]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e62	First, I would like to correct an error in the adjustment, on page 7, first column, where it says: «The last paragraph of Section 29 of the Law and the main agreement of the Civil Service Organisation.» It should read: «The first paragraph of Section 29 of the Law and the main agreement of the Civil Service Organisation.» So in the case of an incurrency, on the same page, on page 7, at the bottom, the first column, it is called in a note: ‘The Committee also assumes that it must appear clearly’, etc. This does not apply to the entire Committee. The right and Christian parties shall leave that comment. As a result of the permanent suspension of the employment home system by Stortinget from October 2001, the reference in the law to the organised state position has lost much of its importance. There is no longer any organised state position in budgetary terms, with State activities being free to take up and set up posts within their budgetary framework. In recent years, the number of contract-paid workers has decreased considerably and the traditional distinction between civil servants and so-called state workers is almost gone. It is therefore proposed that the scope of the Services Dispute Act be re-linked to the original main condition of 1958, ‘employee in the service of the State’. The legal requirement would then be that the worker should be employed in full or in part in the service of the State. The Committee points out that the amendments proposed relate to the right of negotiation of official organisations in the State sector. The conditions for obtaining the right to negotiate are laid down in Sections 3, 4 and 6 of the Code of Disputes. Such rights shall be enjoyed by civil servants' organisations, main associations and professional organisations, provided that the conditions are met. The committee of the collective bargaining system has also proposed changes to the Labour Dispute Act, and it has been assessed whether changes to the Labour Dispute Act should be awaited before proposing changes to the Services Dispute Act. However, as a result of significant organisational changes in the state sector, the case was promoted. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, considers that if a main association or organisation – including professional organisations – fulfils the conditions of the right to negotiate, the subdivisions also have the right to negotiate on defined local issues in so far as those subdivisions do not occupy members of the main association or organisation. Derived negotiating rights shall be granted to any official organisation which is a member of a main association, as shall professional organisations when the conditions of the law are fulfilled. The Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party have noted that the Committee on Tariffs is of the opinion that the provision must be amended to cover only main associations and that the sample assumes that the right to negotiate for a professional organisation must be limited only to the pay and working conditions inherent in the concept of work on which it is based. LO Stat and YS-State support legislative amendments in the consultation report to follow up the selection proposal so that the secondary negotiating law of the Service Dispute Act § 4 last paragraph is amended to cover civil servants’ organisations and subdivisions of main associations. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left agree with the panel which has drawn up the consultation report and proposes that derived negotiating rights only apply to non-negotiable civil servants' organisations which are members of a main association, as set out in the following paragraphs. Paragraph 3, third paragraph. It is also the case that a negotiable civil servant organisation which is a member of a main association has no legal interest in having derived the right to negotiate. The Workers' Party therefore proposes to amend the last paragraph of Section 4 of the Act. The first paragraph of Section 11 of the Act distinguishes between main collective agreements and special agreements. The negotiation system in the State tariff area is based on the free choice of the parties as to what is to be regulated in the main tariff agreement and what is to be outsourced to specific agreements. The government’s assessment is that under the applicable law, it depends on the core tariff agreement what may be the subject of a special agreement. In this context, reference is made to a judgment of the Labour Court delivered in ARD 1999 page 44. The Court of First Instance unanimously held that what is the subject of the negotiation during the tariff period and can thus be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Special Agreements will depend on ‘the scope of the Master Tariff Agreement and what is regulated by it’. Where the main tariff agreement regulates a question of pay and working conditions and does not expressly or implicitly provide for a derogation from special negotiations, each tariff-related party does not require that issues of interest during the tariff period be dealt with in accordance with the rules laid down by law on special agreements and is not subject to arbitration. The Committee supports the Government’s assessment in this case. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the current system with regard to collective bargaining requirements is working well and should continue. Where, at the conclusion of a collective agreement, the parties do not reach an agreement on specific matters referred to in the first paragraph of Section 29, the dispute may be brought before the Government's remuneration committee. Such disputes may be brought under the second subparagraph, if the parties so agree, under specific terms which have the same power of decision or a general extension of the use of specific names. The Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party indicate that no changes have been proposed in this field. It may seem as if today’s provision is clarifying, but it may seem that a practice has been developed where treatment in particular is almost absent. We believe that in the case of disputes arising, in particular in connection with the modification/establishment of special agreements, which are so complex, the case will be best clarified by specific mention. We therefore ask the Government to take this with us when considering the question further. The Committee supports the proposal that the scope of the Code of Disputes is again linked to the original main condition of 1958, ‘employee’s service’. The legal requirement would then be that the worker should be employed in full or in part in the service of the State. A full-time or part-time employee is defined as having to be employed in a full-time or part-time job. However, it is also assumed that it is clear from the preparatory work that there is agreement between the parties before civil servants are removed from the scope of the Civil Service Code. The majority of the Committee considers that there must be objective criteria for the attainment of the right to negotiate and would warn against allowing the King or the competent ministry to grant negotiating rights on a discretionary basis to organisations which do not otherwise fulfil the conditions of the law on representativeness. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party refer to proposals to amend Section 3 in order to ensure an equality between civil servants' organisations and professional organisations, and believe that the report drawn up in advance of the legislative amendments is more comprehensive. We will therefore present the following proposals for the third paragraph of Section 3: «Article 3, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Landwide organisations which organise workers from one profession and who occupy members both inside and outside the State service may be granted the right to negotiate specified pay and working conditions by the King or the competent department if the organisation has at least 200 officials as members and which constitute at least half of the officials in the country in question in the profession in question.» I spent so long because this is a difficult matter. I tried with the best pedagogical ability to review the changes that exist. I'm addressing the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e117	Thank you for the pedagogical review. The changes in the setting made by the rapporteur are also registered. Eirin Faldet has taken up the suggestion she referred to, and the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e124	Here it's about using their pedagogical skills, because this is certainly not easy. I would also like to begin by pointing out what the rapporteur had to say, namely that in the case of an incursion on page 7, first column at the bottom, it says: 'The Committee requires', etc. The Party of Advancement and the Party of Centers, together with the Right Party and the Christian Party, shall also proceed. The state and the public are facing a major and important modernisation work. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that modernisation of the public sector is necessary, even if we do not agree on all the instruments. There are many reasons why modernisation is important, and I will briefly mention three: First, there is consideration for users of public services, and the public sector needs to become more flexible and more service-oriented towards users. Secondly, that is the consideration of taxpayers. As taxpayers, we should be able to demand that economic resources be used as efficiently and as efficiently as possible. Thirdly, there is consideration for employees who are entitled to good working conditions. It is this third consideration – the consideration of the employees – that we are discussing here today. We're going to change the law on public service disputes to make it better adapted to today's labour market. However, it is also a matter of the State being able to secure stable negotiating partners in tariff negotiations. It is an advantage for all parties. The Government's proposal for amendments to the Public Service Dispute Act is well-founded and thoroughly elaborated. The work was in its time started by the central government, followed by the Stoltenberg government and was brought to port by the Cooperation Government. The proposals also have broad support in organisations. Since its adoption in 1958, much has changed in society and in the labour market. In recent years, there have also been relatively large changes in employee organisations. An old fighter that AF confused and was gone. Instead, we've got new organizations like the Academics and the UHO. When we experience such major changes in the labour market, it is important that we seek to respect the principles and the long lines. For the country as an employer, it is important that it has predictable and representative negotiating partners. Therefore, in today's labour market there is a natural strengthening of the conditions of the right to negotiate, as proposed by the Government. But let me mention, for the sake of order, that organizations and main associations which have the right to negotiate according to today's criteria are allowed to retain it, because, as we know, the law does not apply retroactively. The Right and Christian People's Party supports all the proposals made by the Government. We believe that the changes are sensible adaptations to a modern labour market. But I have to say, I wonder about some of the comments and suggestions from the Workers' Party and SV. With regard to the Government’s proposal to be able to employ employees in the country out of the scope of the law, the Workers’ Party and the SV will assume that this can only be done under full agreement between the parties. I would like to point out that this amendment to the law will only apply to some important but relatively small groups of employees in the country, who in some cases will still be employed under special conditions. It could be about, for example: leaders and judges. It is not necessarily appropriate for these very special groups to belong under the law, nor may there be a need for full agreement by all organisations on such matters. However, in all reorganisations in the country, it should of course be that the State as an employer should seek to be responsive to the views of employees. For security reasons, I would like to make it clear that this proposal is not about the ability of the State to reorganise State activities and, where appropriate, to distinguish State activities in, for example. a limited liability company. The Workers' Party and the SV propose in Section 3 to include a right in the law of the King or the competent department to grant a professional organisation the right to negotiate if the conditions of the law are otherwise fulfilled. This could lead to the government deciding, on a subjective basis, to grant an organisation the right to negotiate. But this is contrary to international law's demands for objectivity and predictability in relation to the right to negotiate. The right to negotiate must not be subject to political judgement. This is, of course, a proposal we cannot support. The last relationship concerns § 29. If, at the conclusion of a collective bargaining agreement, the parties do not reach an agreement on remuneration positions, etc., each of the parties may bring the dispute before the Government's remuneration committee. The payroll committee is broadly composed and is able to assess matters in a good and comprehensive manner. It is such that, if both parties agree, a dispute may be brought today for a specific mention. The Workers' Party and the SV shall call for the possibility of bringing a dispute before a particular party on the basis of a request made by one of the parties. Because of the composition in particular in relation to the composition of the State payroll committee, this will give other opportunities to win through with their claims against the State as an employer. It can be read as an instruction from Stortinget to contribute more to the use of specific names. In the opinion of the cooperation parties, today's system works well, and then there is no need to change today's rules at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e175	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e273	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e282	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e289	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1 and 2, by Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e409	Paragraph 3, third paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 3, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Nation-wide organisation which organises workers from one profession and which employs members both inside and outside the State service, may be granted by the King or the department concerned the right to negotiate specified pay and working conditions if the organisation has at least 200 officials as members and these represent at least half of the officials of the country in the profession in question.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e430	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to § 4 final paragraph. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e486	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23-lower.ana.ud2524e495	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
