ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e38	The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e41	On behalf of the representatives of Inge Ryan, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I propose the use of biofuels to reduce the emissions of dangerous greenhouse gases from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e46	The representative of Bendiks H. Arnesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e49	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Aud Gaundal, Grethe Fossli and myself, I would like to make a proposal to equalise working fishermen with others in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e54	The representative Karl-Anton Swensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e57	I would like to put forward a proposal on the requirements for citizenship and linguistic and social knowledge tests before Norwegian citizenship is granted, in order to ensure the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e62	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e65	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the construction of alternative sailing routes from Hjeltfjorden to Herdlafjorden and on to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e71	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. That's also true of the Odel Sting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e89	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e100	The paper on the investigation of sexual abuse against children has been referred to in the media and in public opinion as the establishment of Barnecryptus. However, the measures now being taken are not to establish a new investigation unit responsible for sexual abuse of children. What we want, on the other hand, is to strengthen the existing section of Kripos. But perhaps the most important thing is to increase the knowledge and competence of the individual police districts. A unanimous committee is behind the setting. We agree that the police in the next few years must give priority to this work. The police reform and reorganization of police districts believe that the Workers' Party will help to improve the professional environment of individual police districts and that resources are released to prioritize such issues. The entire Committee supports the establishment of a host facility at Kripos. This adds Kripos more resources, but at the same time it contributes in the longer term to more expertise in the individual police districts. Kripos shall be the national centre of expertise with which police districts can obtain assistance through advice or direct assistance on each case. The number of incest-related offences recorded and the number of perpetrators with children under 14 has quadrupled over the last 40 years. In addition, we know that the dark numbers of this type of crime are high. In the last ten years, public focus on this type of offence, while police competence in investigating such cases has increased, has now revealed far more incest and sexual abuse of children. The emergence of crisis centres, various public relief measures and legislative changes have also resulted in less of this type of crime being a taboo area. The strong growth in such cases means that the police need more expertise and resources. Several reports have told us in recent years that the investigation of sexual abuse against children is complicated, and that very many police chambers and county councils lack knowledge and competence. The quality of the investigation is also very variable. Nor is it possible to place a trust in the fact that the interest in taking on such tasks in the police has been small. Experience in recent years shows that Kripos's competence is used very differently from police districts to police districts. The number of requests for assistance is low. In some cases, there is little knowledge of the possibility of assistance. In addition, many people believe that their own skills are sufficient and that they do not need assistance from Kripos. A unanimous committee believes that there is clear evidence that the police use Kripos' competence to a great extent. We therefore ask the Ministry to draw up guidelines that require police officers to assess requests for assistance in each case. The Workers' Party agrees that legal certainty and orderly investigation do not mean that a multidisciplinary unit should be set up at Kripos. We believe this would easily create unclear responsibilities and mixing roles in dealing with individual matters. We believe it is a good solution for the police to establish closer contact with external trade unions and to establish a knowledge base for people with the necessary skills. The Labour Party does not wish to establish a regional unit for the investigation and prosecution of sexual assaults. We believe that the investigation of sexual abuse is best carried out by the individual police districts. It is in any case the local police officer/woman who comes first to the scene. Important evidence assurance must be carried out as early as possible. We therefore believe that it is extremely important that as much of the competence as possible lies in the individual police districts. A report by Åse Texmo and Lisbeth Aarvik shows that from 1993 to 1998 it was 80 pst. of the most serious cases, repeated forgeries with children under the age of ten, laid down. 11 pst. was freed, and only 9 pst. of the cases ended in a judgment. The main reason for the large number of provisions was justified by the ‘position of the certificate’, i.e. the fact that it is not considered to be able to provide sufficient evidence to obtain a conviction. The same report shows that improved police professional work would have resulted in several cases being brought before the courts. Moral matters have been largely left to newly educated police service women and inexperienced lawyers. Such matters are so complicated and complex that there is a need for experienced policemen and lawyers to do this work. They must have knowledge of evidence assurance, be able to see what is to be regarded as possible evidence, have insight into the competence of cooperative bodies and have a good knowledge of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e128	The members of the Committee are very pleased that an overall committee is behind this position and that there is a broad consensus that this work needs to be strengthened. It gives a strong signal of the importance of the fight against sexual abuse against children, and it has not least been important from the recent reports that we have read, which have pointed out that there is a need to strengthen and improve the treatment of sexual offences. The investigation of sexual abuse against children is the responsibility of police officers in the individual police districts. But this is no simple matter to deal with for the police. It is therefore very important that these matters are adequately addressed, and such matters are very complex and often difficult to deal with for each police officer. There is therefore good reason why police officers are now well-followed along the way. Some police districts have considerable competence in this field. But we're not going to hide that so far it's been varying in quality on the investigation. In many cases this is due to the fact that each police officer has worked all alone on the matter, and that there has been no continuity in the work. The high school provides training on sexual abuse, both as part of basic education and as part of the provision of continuing education. The possibility of continuing training is valuable to enable police officers to understand the problem of sexual abuse. This is why the right considers it important what we have written in the note, that police officers who are motivated and want to participate in the continuing training offer at the Police College will have the opportunity to do so, and not least that the Police Directorate has to look at the costs of the offer in order to find out the arrangements that make each police district a priority. The return on training at the Police College, based on what I have heard from various police officers, is very good. Therefore, the Right is pleased that we agreed on this comment, so that it could make it easier for more people to participate in this offer. The right looks like we're getting family violence coordinators in the individual police districts. These coordinators give us acute competence in this area, and they also have a special responsibility for, among other things. child management. Police districts will be provided with valuable competences in matters that are often very difficult to deal with. When a child is a victim, it requires knowledge and methods of questioning and documenting that best protect the child in a difficult situation. Therefore, the proposed measures in this Communication are very good, including: in the case of the first meeting of the victim, the possibility of increased knowledge in order to ensure safety in the handling of the victim and its dependants. It is very important that individual police districts avail themselves of the opportunity they have to receive assistance from Kripos, both in the field of technical and tactical investigations. This strengthening of Kripos increases the availability of personnel who can assist locally. There have been discussions about whether Kripos should relate to other disciplines. The most important thing for the right is that you relate to such professionals when you see the need for them, and that you consider the child’s need for such an offer on a case-by-case basis. I am therefore very pleased with the initiative that Finn Kristian Marthinsen took in the throne debate in the autumn of 2000, in which he asked for an investigation of the possibility of establishing a central knowledge base. So now Kripos can take advantage of the external trade unions. Professionals who are willing to assist are easily accessible and can provide rapid assistance are very important for the further work in Kripos. Although one knows that Kripos is doing a very good job, and that the police's role in such matters is now being strengthened, it is important that the individual police districts use the skills that Kripos possesses. In addition, it is important that those in contact with children also take responsibility for the detection and reporting of infringements. It is only when there is a report that the police can start their work. However, it is also important that professionals are available to assist the child and its relatives through a difficult process. Finally, I want to bring forward two agencies that are working very well, and that are making an invaluable effort, namely the Save Children and the National Resource Centre. That is why I also hope that good cooperation between the police and these organisations will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e152	Sexual assault on children is one of the most serious violations that can occur. Therefore, any strengthening of the investigation of such abuses will be important and, of course, welcome. The increased coverage of these problems unfortunately shows the extent to which they have now received, and that it is important to get to the increased bet that we want here. It is worrying to see that the quality of the investigation carried out varies greatly from police districts to police districts. Now there may be different reasons for this variation, but there is a lot of evidence that it is due to – to some extent at least – who is being put into the investigation: is it led by a person with long experience, or is it a newly educated person? What kind of professional insight does he have? Does he/she have continuing training in the field, or is he/she rarely involved in a subject? And to what extent are you willing to send inquiries to Kripos for assistance? It is often the case that you need to have some insight and knowledge in a subject area in order to know what questions and what input you need to get in touch with. Thus, it is unfortunate that there has been a practice that young people, inexperiencedly, are set to lead such investigations, which in themselves are complicated matters. At the same time, this is a matter that will be mentally demanding for those who are responsible for the investigation. Therefore, it will be important not only to have a coordinator in the individual police chamber, but also to ensure that you have a network where those responsible for this type of investigation can seek contact and help before you may be burned out, and before you get any problems yourself because you have many impressions that can be tough for everyone to process. In the case of Kripos, it's very important that we get a base of knowledge and competence. So one question has been whether this should then be directly linked to Kripos, or whether Kripos should out and acquire this competence. From our point of view, it must be essential that the necessary and adequate knowledge and competence are present and can be used at all times. Whether this competence is through a direct employee or directly related to Kripos is less important to us. In fact, we believe – and agree with the Government – that the flexibility, the variation, in the various matters may mean that you need to look a little further, and that it is more important to relate to yourself and have access to good skills than to have a direct employee, and thus limit the skills you can use. We are also very pleased with the host system that has been set up, and we want it to expand as much as possible. It is clear that it is not possible to initiate a hospitant scheme to such an extent that it reduces the quality of the hospitant system or results in Kripos being treated with so many hospitants as to impair the quality of its policies. Here it's important to find a balance sheet. But at the same time, the problem is that every two years, four of them will be small if you think about the number of police districts. It is also important that, in addition to this hospitant scheme, further training is considered. It is worrying that the costs of continuing training are used as an argument for not sending police lawyers on such continuing training. It is necessary to establish a mechanism whereby the economy and money cannot be used as an argument against necessary training in this area. Such continuing training will not give policy-makers a direct economic advantage, even if a professional will have a high return. We could well imagine the possibility that the various police districts were reimbursed for the expenses they had in connection with further training, because even if the education part itself is reimbursed, the cost and travel will be charged to the individual police districts. In this way, it will be possible to find a situation where the economy of the police means that the police districts near Oslo, those close to the Police College, have opportunities to train and train their staff, while police officers in the districts have a clearly greater problem in that area. I hope the Council of State I hope that the Council of State will take a closer look at that issue. It is also true that in the case of sexual abuse against children, it is very important to be able to secure tracks. Then it is important to know which tracks to ensure, but also that you have the necessary equipment to secure the tracks. It would be essential to have access to modern and good equipment so that evidence does not go to play because there is no possibility of using the equipment needed to secure the tracks. In this context, the party of progress is the only party that has made a reference to the economy. I guess that's the case in this case as in other things we have in this house: you can all go together for good words, you can all agree on better research, but at the end of the day it's probably also a question of economics, probably also for parties other than the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e169	The investigation of sexual abuse against children has been of varying quality for too long. The report ‘Sexual abuse against women and children’, prepared by Åse Texmo and Lisbeth Aarvik for the Nordic Women’s University in 1998, shows in detail how the lack of competence combined with the lack of status and the lack of willingness to prioritize matters leads to a large number of such cases being resolved. Of course, this has enormous significance for the children involved, while losing the opportunity to take action against many of the adults who commit such abuses. Since this discussion is about the investigation, I would like to mention carefully that SV looks with concern at the fact that the offer to offenders is very variable and sometimes non-existent, and we hope to have a majority for both a resolution of the criminal justice system and of the psychiatry in the future. SV has stressed the importance of being together with other parties about the comments, because we believe it is important that the Committee combines leadership to strengthen the job of detecting and investigating sexual abuse against children. In principle, we could imagine explicitly stating that the police districts should have reimbursed the costs of participating in the continuing education courses at the Police College dealing with domestic violence and SO issues, precisely because we see that these are areas that had earned a much greater degree of consciousness and competence. There is reason to believe that more police officers and women than those currently attending the courses could want to do so, but that economic arguments are used not to do so. This may have to do with economics, but it may also be that such cases have less status than for example. drug-related crime. By removing the economic argument, we might get more people to train in this area, as well as that the signal effect would be strong. However, we have been content to ask the Directorate of Police to facilitate such participation, and now expect a job to be done to spread competence and insight. SV is also very concerned that this field becomes a major topic in primary education at the Police College. Nine hours is little in the big context, and we're of the opinion that the interest in a field also depends on insight. We therefore hope that the Department will take a closer look at this, preferably in cooperation with the Police Joint Organisation. There is a lot of good will in the police, and many have gradually gained invaluable knowledge about both domestic violence and sexual assault issues. Not least, many women possess such competence after being literally cast into it as young, newly trained police officers. This competence hopes that we will now have a greater place in the efforts of our own family violence coordinators in the police districts, and we assume that SO issues will be given much greater attention in the future. SV will closely monitor how this is done and how this initiative will work in practice. We are particularly concerned that teamwork is being facilitated, and that the police officers and women who are going to work on these very heavy and serious issues get the follow-up they deserve. There has to be a status attached to dealing with family violence, rape and sexual assault. Not least, we need to find out how important it is to address this early, and that the people involved are getting help and treatment. We have to do what we can to prevent the victims from being attacked in the next round, and the abuses are repeated, for example. after a stay without adequate help and treatment. We also hope that, in the context of the action plan ‘Violence against women’, there will be a greater level of awareness of this throughout the auxiliaries and that cooperation will be improved between them. Finally, I would like to stress the important work done by the National Resource Centre for sexually abused children, and I hope that the Department finds reason to make the Centre permanent, or at least extend the Centre's term of office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e182	We often say – and we mean it well: the children are the most important thing we have, not least in view of the future. But also for some time, for children have the right to be children, to experience security, to experience care, to experience that they can unfold as small people without obligations and without responsibility. That's the child's right. When adults use the child as a means for themselves, there is perversion, which is totally unacceptable. The case that we have to deal with today has its background. Firstly, it was clearly stated that when it came to child abuse, there were few cases that were reported. Of the cases that were reported, too many cases were committed, and the fact that they were dismissed was usually due to the lack of sufficient evidence to carry the case forward. In the cases that were passed on in the legal system, it was only a fraction that led to the killing of the invaders. And the reason was that you had too much evidence. Why was that so? First, because the police did not have enough competence to investigate such cases. You weren't equipped, neither professionally nor otherwise, to deal with this. Secondly, because in different places around the country, it was difficult to obtain the necessary professionals who could be involved in securing evidence within a reasonable time after the abuses were committed. It could go up to four weeks from a notification of an infringement and until legal proceedings had been carried out that were of such a nature that they could be used in a subsequent legal proceedings. And what happened in the four weeks that went on? Well, then the child was kind of left to himself. It wasn't allowed to talk to other adults about what had happened, because if it did, the child's statement would not be useful in a future trial, because the child would then be affected by the adults, which was disqualifying. And thirdly, the awareness of these things that I've pointed to led to things that were involved in assault being prioritised at many offices – if not consciously, so subconsciously: we know that we can't do this, so we're going to postpone it. So what was the result of this? The most important thing was that the children felt failed by the adult community. We didn't take the kids seriously. We subvert their experience, saying indirectly to the children that they're lying. That's terrible. That is why it is necessary for us to grasp it. The result was also an arrogance among people. It was thought and felt that there was no sense in reporting such cases, since it nevertheless led to nothing but further inconveniences. The third thing that led to this was, unfortunately, that we had some murders in this context. People were accused and convicted on a wrong basis. And there's nothing that's so devastating to these things that when people stand up behind and say that what they said, was not true, it was dictated or obtained under pressure from someone else. That's why it's necessary that we do something about it. And that's why the Christian People's Party proposed in the 2000 Treaty debate to establish a central knowledge base on these things, so that you could have a comprehensive body that could be deployed for use throughout the country. We would then avoid discrimination, by not only being able to conduct interrogations and provide adequate help to the child, which could be used in an pending trial, where professionals were available. That's why I'm glad we got where we are today. We've got a unanimous attitude, and I'm glad. The Labour Party voted against establishing a central knowledge base when this was presented in the debate on the throne, but I am pleased that we agree and have met – perhaps not in what, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, is the best option, but however: this is a beginning of something that I think might be important. A psychologist’s report, published in the Evening Post on 11 January of this year, states: ‘The protection of children and the judiciary is lacking in the understanding and competence of the child’s response to criminal offences.’ Children choose to keep quiet, and they do so because of shame, threats and desire to protect. This report states that it appears that both child protection and justice require children to be able to express themselves clearly about abuse when close persons are suspected. Children don't. So the public is becoming more concerned with proper behaviour in relation to laws and regulations than focusing on the child's interests. It's a misunderstanding. It is the child’s interests and the child’s future that must be at the heart of our attention in these matters. That's why we in the Christian People's Party are not so afraid that there could be some mix-ups when the Kripos boss originally suggested that they should be able to relate to other disciplines. I have confidence that the police would be so professional that they could distinguish between string and bart. But when you've gone away from it, I think it's very right – and it's also underlined from the other parties from this pulpit – that you have to have access to the necessary staff that can go into the matter in question. And that's true no matter where you're in the country. We've been through the host system. And I think it's interesting to read what was in Drammen's Official Journal on January 14th this year. It is told from the Modum Länsmannskontor about a employee who has worked at Kripos and who has now come to this office. This has resulted in a rather significant increase in research into such issues in Modum – probably not because in Modum there is so much worse than elsewhere, but because you have got competent staff to work on these things, the cases are also revealed. That's what's a primary purpose and an intention of this. Those who are truly the object of abuse shall be taken seriously. They're told it's not you who's guilty. You will receive the necessary help, and the guilty one will be taken. Then, in order to take it as the last point, as there are 25 seconds left of my speaking time, it is also important that the legal protection of the accused is respected. It can quickly become a psychosis where everyone has to take the attacker. Then we have to make sure that what we're doing is right, and I think we can achieve that with what we're starting up and establishing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e204	Sexual assault on children is the lowest of all lawbreakers. As big politicians, we are always content to be conscious of our responsibilities with regard to turning around and giving security to our youngest inhabitants. There are many positive and constructive actions in the staging and setting up of the Judicial Committee. But I want to focus on a couple of things that could be even clearer. The setting points out that there are often newcomers with a lack of experience who are assigned the task of providing competences in these difficult issues. It is then reasonable to ask the question of the best competence on the other side of the table and is the one to defend the possible attacker. Can we put in place measures to strengthen the competence of those who are responsible for the interests of the children? Research in this area is difficult and not least highly sensitive. It's also resource-requiring. Online sex rings flourish, often directed at children. Do we have sufficient resources to investigate these six rings? The centre party supports SV’s view where one questions whether all police districts are able to ensure continuity, competence and quality to an adequate degree. As I said in the introduction, sexual abuse against children is the most serious of all offences. The centre lot will therefore follow developments in this area closely. Otherwise, we'll support the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e215	Sexual abuse against children is a crime where there is probably a big difference between the actual number of offences committed each year and the number of cases recorded. For various reasons, many children choose to remain silent about their experiences. This is a very worrying situation, because the actions are targeting the smallest and most vulnerable among us. Effective and improved police action aimed at sexual abuse of children is likely to result in more victims becoming safe enough to report the situation. This is how we can remedy a traumatic and difficult life situation for the many who are being abused. In addition, it can help to overcome, through criminal prosecution and conviction, to a greater extent than at present, the impossibility of committing new crimes. In several ways, the police represent one of our most important social institutions dealing with people in a difficult life situation. Too many people will be in contact with the police as a door opener to other parts of the auxiliaries. This applies not least in relation to children and is related to the formalised cooperation procedures existing between the police and the child protection authorities. In this respect, effective investigation of sexual abuse against children will be important both in relation to the general fight against crime, in relation to the detection of the offender in each case and in order to help the victim of the offence. Several studies have pointed out that improvements can still be made in this area. Cases of sexual abuse against children raise particular problems compared to other types of crime. As a few other areas, this type of issue confronts the police with specific requirements for competence. Police need not only general knowledge of the investigation of sexual abuse but also insight into the specific issues raised when questioning young children. Furthermore, the need for competence increases when disabled or foreign-language children are involved. In criminal proceedings, it is also important that the police engage in external professional competence in a way that ensures proper and good responsibilities between the police and the treatment system. Although much has been done in recent years, among other things. improving the provision of training at the Police College is not enough to give the necessary assurance to the treatment of this type of criminal matter. It was therefore an important initiative that was taken when the Stortinget asked for the opportunity to establish a central knowledge base with competence for sexual abuse against children in October 2000. Since the Storting took this important initiative, the police reform has been adopted and implementation is under way. The police reform with large police districts provides a better basis for building up and maintaining peak competence in this area. Criminal matters perpetrated in Norway occur in a police district. This is where the police's main mission is to be carried out under the direction of the local police chief. It is therefore necessary to pay close attention to measures targeting the police districts in the area we are dealing with today. On the other hand, Norwegian police have always had the urge and the opportunity to seek assistance for the investigation of particularly complex and comprehensive cases at the Crime Police Centre, Kripos. This also applies to issues of sexual abuse against children. As a central assistance body, Kripos may provide assistance to the investigation initiated by a police district. This will always provide significant qualitative and quantitative assistance to the local police. Strengthening police action in this area therefore needs to balance action both against the police in general and strengthening Kripos as a central body of expertise. The proposal to strengthen Kripos with hospitants provides the institution with better manning opportunities to assist local police in the investigation of sexual abuse of children. At the same time, it provides a basis for increased competence in police districts when personnel return after the hospitation period. In this sense, a grip has been taken that strengthens both the central level and the local level. The proposal also requires the establishment of a knowledge base at Kripos. This will include staff of various professional professionals who may be associated with the police in dealing with sexual assaults. Once the police know where to get information about external competence, it will also be easier to use it. Attention needs to be paid to developing this knowledge base through regular knowledge exchange, networking and mutual training activities. Finally, let me comment that I have of course noticed that the Committee is concerned that this will be implemented in practice. It is that when you are going to build a point competence, you have to build it up. There's a lot of ways to do it. It is the final result that is absolutely crucial, and it is crucial that in each police district there is competence to deal with these issues. It will probably be natural in many ways to look at the competences to be built up in family violence and sexualized violence, especially with children, in a context. It's a complex and challenging relationship that several of the speakers have been involved in. I have noticed the practical concerns – to put it that way – expressed by the Committee, and will, of course, follow this up in my further work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e251	I agree with the Council of State that thorough practical work needs to be done in the individual police districts in order to be able to solve these difficult tasks of investigating child abuse. The report to Texmo and Aarvik points out that the rate of provision is unacceptable in terms of sexual assaults against children. The figures from the Statistical Centre show that the same is true of sexual assaults against adults. Yesterday's newspaper read that the number of rape reports has doubled in ten years. It is positive that several girls now dare to report rape cases. What's the problem is that despite multiple reviews, the number of convictions is almost halfway across the 10-year period. So the percentage for convictions has fallen from 9 p.m., as it was in 1993, to 4 p.m., as it is today. When several girls now take the burden of reporting a rape case, they should not experience that their case is being dismissed. I am afraid that with regard to the measures we have taken in recent years to get more girls to report rape cases, we will experience that we can have a rather severe setback. Why should you take the burden of reporting a case when you still feel that it is being hospitalised? I will therefore challenge the Dørum Government Council on which further action he will take to ensure that more cases, including in the case of sexual assault, rape against women, end up with conviction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e258	It's the way in every case that you have to have evidence that holds. That is why what the Committee has been discussing is that we must have sufficient competence to meet the issue properly, with the right seriousness and understanding when they come to the police. At the same time, the police need to take stock of the experience gained after each harvest in the various areas that the representative has now travelled to ensure evidence. There's been a build-up of experience in sexual assault against women. It also underlines some of the Committee's concerns about child abuse. Now you shouldn't take these facts together. What happens is that we go into the private sphere, and when you go into the private sphere, whether it's family violence or relationships that are revealed in connection with sexual abuse or child abuse, you have to be aware of – there are some of the experiences that the police have done in general, including in the area of sexual assault. through the so-called Stovner project on family violence – that securing evidence early is crucial. Building up this competence and ensuring that it is widely known by the police is one of the Committee's points, and this build-up of competence is linked to various stages of police professional development. It is related to the basic training you receive. It is linked to the skills developed in each police district and is linked to the training required. That's the sum of these measures that can increase the quality of the investigation and lead to results other than what was now referred to by the representative in her reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e263	Any conviction in any criminal case depends on the basis of the investigation and the evidence provided by it. That's why it's a very important thing we have up to treatment here today. The quality depends on the crew and the technical equipment available. That's the last thing I want to draw attention to. It is a fact that when the committee visited Kripos, Kripos clearly expressed the need for more and new and modern equipment in order to enhance their ability to provide evidence. Then it should be a paradox for the Minister — it is always interesting to hear what the Minister has of political views and visions regarding the progress of these kinds of matters — to record that there are actually private organisations assisting Kripos to supply them with the equipment they think they need. My question to the Minister may be quite simple, but at the same time quite crucial: what kind of thanks will the Minister take for the police to have access to the necessary equipment, which they actually believe they need in order to strengthen the basis for conviction and good investigation in all criminal cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e272	It becomes very operational this question of what kind of thank you the Council of State takes. The Council of State has, at the excellent help of Stortingen, got a police directorate. He has also, through the excellent help of Stortingen, identified key priority areas. Then I trust that through this system you manage the heads in such an efficient way that you get currency for the heads that are there. This applies to both crews and, of course, equipment. Then I have to add, without knowing specifically the situation in Kripos that the representative mentions, that I have nothing against doing practical good work in collaboration with others, as long as you get a good result as an effect of this. It is also pointed out by the Committee that it is important to use professionals, which cannot always be in their own ranks, because it is essential to ensure that the matter is dealt with in a good manner. And as I myself took up in my post: it will also be here about the relationship with other agencies than the police when we talk about children. It will be the relationship with child protection authorities and, where appropriate, professional authorities. And then you're completely dependent on being able to cooperate with others. I'm well aware that in police Norway there is a demand for equipment. In general, there is probably a lot of money spent on a lot of good equipment, but you can always discuss whether the priorities have been in the right place. The new police reform actually gives the police districts the opportunity to have a very sharp searchlight on this. Maybe it's been like this before that there have been some watertight shots between what you use on different sides of the police work. The reform itself makes those shots disappear. This is where the fight against crime and the means to achieve it, which counts, and I think that through the reform we will see that we can also have an impact on the area on which the representative asks, namely that we are technically equipped in the way necessary to solve complex issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e279	There are many challenges to this field. A piece of it is also about getting a criminal service that is able to deal with attackers, so that the abuses do not repeat. My soul struck me on a round trip to prisons one of these men, who only perpetrated on young boys when he was in a crisis situation, and only boys who were at the age he was when he was abused as a child's orphan. So it's pretty complex problems we're dealing with here. On the other hand, raising the competence of the healthcare system, school and kindergarten, so that they know what to look for in order to discover that children are exposed to abuse. Actually, I think it would have been appropriate to also have a debate on this with closed religious environments, which is now on the poster as part of the debate on the issue of forced marriage and honorary death in Muslim environments. But this also applies in other closed religious environments where the problem of abuse is a taboo area, and where one may also be more protective of one another. So it's in itself a challenge from me to the Government to address this to the different religious environments. My direct challenge now is on the report that I have here, which the Council of State has seen. Is it the case that the Council of State will look at the issue of a system of trials with a regional unit of acute competence on issues of violence, rape and morality, and if it turns out that we are not able to increase the competence of each police district, which is also to be spread downwards in the underlying units, he will then look at the possibility of a pilot scheme, for example. in the north, what situation might be especially summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e292	To be direct: I know the Texmo report from the last time I was Minister of Justice, and then drew the conclusion: correct diagnosis – crazy solution. The diagnosis is that it is not good enough to deal with matters, you point out that there is not enough competence. But in the police, as we have now organized in large farms, building relationships across the board can quickly become a sleeping pad for those who are to build up their skills. And I'll be allowed to direct the Storting's attention to another matter that's important. I think the police in many ways have had a pay system that has made people often aim strategically for wage development and perhaps not for career development. Without me wanting to talk about salary levels at any time, I think it is also important for the police to get a payroll system that allows you to plan a career that is so that you can follow certain tracks, both professionally and careerally, that you can bet on your skills. There are many issues within Police Norway that can help increase competence. It's essentially one of the conditions I'm pointing at. Anyone who has met the association of people who the police now work with sexual assault knows that it's a very committed group. You know that there's a group that -- yes, how do we express it -- has a call, a strong emotional commitment and does a good job. I believe that the emergence of this forum will be an incredibly important contributor to focusing on what I experience is the main concern of the representative Thorkildsen. So I'd like to say in the end that for me an assault is an assault, no matter where there is. I will not comment on closed environments, but we have many types of closed environments in Norway, and there is every reason to be aware. At least I can assure you of one thing: I will not accept any kind of abuse or oppression in the name of any ice cream. And let me finally say, to make it explicitly clear, since minority questions came up: I describe gender mutilation as child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e306	It's bad to be exposed to a crime. It is especially serious if you are subjected to violence or other physical abuse. But some of the most raw and offensive things we can imagine are rape and other forms of sexualized violence. Sexualized violence against children is a problem for which it has been too taboo to talk about, and for which it has been most pleasant for many to close their eyes. Fortunately, the work we are doing today marks the fact that we have children's rights on the agenda in an important and correct way. The fact that it has been difficult and little priority to expose sexualised violence against children has weakened children's rights and protection opportunities. The report from the Nordic Women’s University in 1998 was one of too many. Five years after the Bjugn case, researchers asked if we were better able to deal with morals. Unfortunately, the documentation collected did not suggest that. A police lawyer stated in connection with the research project: ‘The issues are down-prioritised despite the fact that most people know that there are important issues — the refusal I believe is largely due to uncertainty and lack of competence.’ In conclusion, in the three northern states there were some major differences in how these cases were dealt with, both between the police districts and within the same police district. According to the report of the University of Women, a police investigator stated that: ‘The branch type is operated by fire-jets on the investigator’. Overall treatment was largely personal and random, and it constituted a legal security problem for those who have the least opportunity to take up their own objections, namely children. Abuse and violence against children are too serious to be mistreated by the police. It is important that both the competences and priorities of these fields of action are improved. It is alarming in the light of the work done, and the report from the Nordic Women's University, that it appears that there has been a decline in the trend of clarification over the past two years and that the average time taken to deal with these issues has increased. Police are an important factor in the fight against sexual abuse and other abuses against women and children. Strengthening education in this area will, hopefully, lead to the detection of several abuses and to better assistance for victims of abuse. At the same time, Kripos must relate to external trade unions that can assist the police, as a unanimous increase is taking place today. It is also a unanimous increase that is now in favour of establishing a central knowledge base with competence for sexual abuse against children, and that this competence should benefit the whole country. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that teams are being built around the country with good competence, and that individuals will not be left alone with responsibility. It is of great importance that society reacts to the attackers and that children be treated in a way that minimises the adverse effects of the attack. Of course, it is also important that we take action to prevent abuse, i.e. prevention measures. Some of the most raw and offensive things we can imagine are rape and other forms of sexualized violence. It is important that the work we are doing to prevent sexual violence is followed up, and it is important that the legal security of children is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e336	When Stortinget today treats St.meld. No 52 on the investigation of sexual abuse against children, it is an aspect that is important for the Right, namely the legal protection of those affected either as victims or as suspected perpetrators. The legal protection of each party shall be indisputable. A society that condemns a person in a moral matter against a child shall not be in doubt that the right person is judged. In addition to prison sentences, these perpetrators are often severely convicted in their community. There have been more and more serious sexual assaults against children in recent decades, as a result of both increased public focus on this type of crime and better police investigation. Strengthening the Kripos investigation department will now give us a central and high professional base of competence that can work quickly and purposefully to ensure evidence. A central location of professional competence will be a strength for the legal protection of the individual victim, but also for those under investigation for abuse. It comes to an end that the investigation of the cases depends on the random competence of the individual police districts there and then. Now the specialised professional competence will be available immediately. This will help to strengthen the legal certainty of the individual. Every person in a society is entitled to have matters dealt with quickly and in particular issues of sexual assault. I just want to remind you of a couple of examples of cases that have been identified as murders and that, with improved investigation methods, might have been avoided: By December 2001 at the latest, three men who had previously been convicted of gross sexual assault were found free in Frostating Lawyers' Law after they had their cases reopened. In fact, there are many innocent people who over the years have committed prison sentences for crimes they have not committed, and there are great personal tragedies behind the cases. At least one has in the meantime taken his life, where it was subsequently established that the assault he was convicted of had never taken place. In addition, we do have all the Bjugn stuff fresh in memory. It's hard to point out what's the reason there's been so many murders in cases of sexual assault. If it's due to an incomplete investigation by the police, judicial proceedings, the role of experts or other things, I'm not going to speculate. A strengthening of the professional competence for sexual abuse of children by the prosecution might have averted these issues. Improving police skills also increases the credibility of the judiciary because the facts on which the cases are based are becoming more thorough. Historically, a number of issues have been re-established — which shows how incredibly important it is that the evidence presented is almost watertight. If people see it as a matter of fact not only being judged by the judiciary, but being influenced by what popular opinion might be, it is almost the abolition of the legal protection of modern democracy. The measures addressed in the Communication are important steps to improve legal certainty and provide safety for the child as a victim, but also for any abuser in the investigation of sexual abuse cases. When a child is a victim, it requires special competence from those who first meet the child at the time of notification. The child has been through a traumatic experience and must be handled in the most gentle manner possible. At the same time, thorough investigation will be easier to prevent innocent people from being accused and convicted, and will be an important contribution to increasing legal certainty in criminal proceedings. Legal certainty in this context will firstly mean that there will be equal treatment of cases wherever an offence has occurred in the country, and that the quality of the investigation will be more consistent and uniform in all police districts. The strengthening of the Kripos Central Investigation Unit will increase access to qualified personnel to assist the districts in difficult matters, the Host System adds valuable competence to the local police district, and last but not least, we are likely to increase the emphasis on the problems of basic education at the Police College. These measures will lead to an increase in the competence of each police district, making them better equipped to care for the child’s interests. The conduct of hearings and evidence-keeping in such cases must be carried out in a way that takes account of the victim and ensures the legal certainty of the notified person. Through these measures, to which a unanimous committee has joined, we are a step on the way to preventing more murders and personal tragedies, while at the same time giving credibility to the decisions of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e359	It has become known in one of the most cruel criminal cases in this country – the Baneheia case. The lives of two little girls will never be replaced by any political instruments. The robbery, the brutality and the unreality many of us feel in the wake of attacks on children, must never shadow the possibility of preventing and repairing much of the accident that creates sexual assault. The unbelievably resilient, courageous and, in particular, constructive efforts of, among others: The parents of the girls who were seriously hurt in Baneheia show us just one thing: it doesn't work to give up, and here we all have a responsibility. In fact, we have a responsibility at all levels of society, from us as individuals or big business politicians, and from others like that. Police and Minister of Justice. Despite the fact that today's case is about research in particular, I now think it is the basis for pointing out the challenges of the future in relation to this matter. Our attitudes are reflected in the police, and the opinions and attitudes of ordinary people are also reflected in people's attitudes in the courts. And the question is, what climate do we create around these things? What climate do we create to solve the issues? And what climate do we create to move on in these matters? We could do as the Progress Party has often done in criminal policy, liberalise laws and rules that act as preventive, and propose specific penalties and sanctions against offenders. Liberalising porn laws while proposing banishment, castration and life-time penalties is a typical feature. I'm afraid such discussions are only suitable to trace what this debate is really about. How are we going to get alive everyone's responsibility? There is reason to note that, besides strengthening police work, we now need to focus on what is preventing. It is not for nothing that sexualised violence, especially against women and children, has increased as liberalisation of and access to gross pornography has taken place. The growing number of 12- to 13-year-old girls who today report unwanted sexual experiences with both peers and the elderly also feel that they are being abused. Many say that the boys are inspired by the porn. Those who are most keen today in the debate on this type of crime should also register in the debate on whether to liberalise pornography legislation. Those who are high on the ground when attacking offenders should also know their visitation time when dealing with Norwegian drug policy. The majority of Norwegian rapes occur in alcohol intoxication. A good prevention measure against sexual abuse is to reduce the total consumption of drugs in the population. Those who today really shout crucifixion, crucifixion, are also invited to join when we include. shall discuss grants for, for example: Alternatives to Violence or Support Centres around the country. Not all are as active as that. Perhaps the time also has come for us to step in line with our own ability to help reduce the number of abuses, not least we men. Human culture has so little to boast of in relation to what signals we as boys and men send out about sexual life and respect for the integrity of others; it is in Russian time or a well-adulted vorspiel. I think the bulk of the population makes sense not to move the investigation capacity to the police from the local districts to the central or regional joints. Too many things are being treated with a vote today. Sickly, if the number of rape reports has doubled in the last ten years, the results of the investigation are discouraging. The number of convictions shall be reduced. Therefore, the police have to give status to the assault cases, much more than to theft or fights. This competence must be local and the status must also be local. The problem is that the police have moved out too late. A new investigative unit, for which SV believes to open up, I'm afraid only want to powder the responsibility and do the extraction even later and help reduce the status. We are not going to care about this on the ‘local guard’. Evidence must be secured, witnesses questioned and traditional police work carried out. I also believe it is important that male police investigators engage to a greater extent in such matters, and that this is not done to the exclusive areas of the female police investigators. To the extent that the police have previously removed these issues, the challenges are now primarily to use available resources, with the possible support of Kripos, to carry out the investigation. Only that can give us more convictions. But this is only half the job. The most important thing in the years to come is the total responsibility of all of us to create a policy that reduces the number of abuses. And then we need more than police and punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e375	The debate today has shown that the investigation of sexual abuse of children is an important focus of the Justice Committee. As chairman of the committee, I am very pleased that there is an overall committee behind the vote. Sexual abuse against children, as many have said here, is one of the most cruel and degrading things that can be done. But at the same time, it's also one of the most taboo. The Committee believes that the possibility of combating and resolving sexual abuses against children is strengthened by the strengthening of Kripos and the enhanced competence of the individual police chamber, to which it is now put forward. I would like to stress that the local effort is and will be the most important. But it is also important to put this type of crime into a national and an international context. We know that trafficking in child pornography, the sale of child prostitutes, child sex tourism and other child exploitation are widespread. Pedofile networks operate across borders. There is a closed environment, and much of the activity is done via the Internet, which means that the information is available and the documentation is there, but it is difficult to access. The Internet has come to be, and its use will only increase. Only coordinated, multinational police operations can break up the criminal environments that make great money on gross exploitation and degradation of innocent children. The Committee has just returned from visits to both Europol and Interpol. The work being done there, both to reveal sexual abuse against children and also, not least, to raise awareness of this type of crime worldwide, is very important. Several of the pedophilic networks that have been revealed have had adistinction with Norway. Data collected in other countries allow one to detect offenders in Norway. This, in my view, demonstrates the importance of international police cooperation. I am very pleased that Norway is now actively participating in both Interpol’s and Europol’s work in these areas, and that we also have good bilateral contacts with the police authorities of other countries. I am pleased with the broad consensus it is in Stortinget today on this important matter. I also want to underline what several others have been involved in, namely the important work being done by different support groups and different voluntary organisations to prevent and not least to detect sexual abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e390	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e393	Trade in children for sexual services has become a world-class economic activity. According to UNICEF, one million children are drawn into sex slavery every year. Trafficking, which is the international designation for trafficking in human beings, is developing into one of the world’s largest industries. According to UN estimates, this slave trade is worth over $60 billion for the backers. The trade is global. Children are exploited everywhere, down to very low age levels, sexually — not only by pedophile men but also by ‘common’ women and men. Boys and girls come from poor villages with a promise of a better life. They are kidnapped and kept locked in a table or for months, or they are sold on the street, where the money goes to the backmen. Little boys in war zones are recruited as soldiers and used as sex toys by the older soldiers. Children are sold across borders to serve as prostitutes in brothels, or as actors in porno movies. Internet crime is one side of this, where people make the most of their own and other children. That's why it's important that it's also included when we're talking about Barne-kripos today, this to monitor and see: what's that flowing in across our country, and where can we track down and find people who are doing this, to prevent it from developing further. Once, the fight against slavery was one of the greatest political struggles. It was in many ways the test of democracy and human rights. The fight against today's slave trade is infinitely important. The inconsiderate and gross exploitation of children is evil put into practice. It's the human dignity it's all about. That is why I am pleased that the Sem Declaration to the Cooperation Government states: ‘The work on Barne-kryphos will be followed up’. It gives me confidence that this government sees the problems and wants to follow them with the eyes of the Argus, and eventually, if necessary, contribute what is necessary to bring these things to life, and to give the children the security they need – as others have also pointed out here in the debate – also provide the alleged perpetrators with the security they need, in order to ensure that their legal certainty is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e404	The best thing about this case would be that we had no case. The best thing would be that we had a society where there was no need for this kind of big message, but it's unfortunately not a fact. Unfortunately, as long as we have people with a nature that causes children suffering and sexual assault, we have to settle it. The quality of the investigation makes it clear how serious we as a nation are taking this problem inwards. It's also about how we respect the smallest in our society, our children. Don't we take our children seriously, what kind of society do we get? So what kind of signal do we give? Today's children are the ones who will carry this society on in the future. That's why it's also important. Then I register that SV again indicates that we have to be busy with the prisoners. Yeah, that's possible. But for us, the attacker has priority number one, and society is to be protected for him. Then we can discuss the content afterwards. But first of all, it's the way society's going to be protected from these. The Progress Party is pleased with the new regime that is now coming, with custody. We have no problem with people who commit abuses against children being held in custody, about a whole life. If that's what it takes to protect our children, we're going to go in for it. And then I register that the representative Storberget again has a need to be a teacher in relation to the Progress Party, and of course he is quite free to be. With regard to the policy of the Progress Party, it is based on the fact that every person in this country must have an individual right to do what he finds he can do, of course within the laws and regulations that apply at all times. There are the dividing lines between us and the representative of Storberget. He has a constant concern for everything that others might perceive in part as both interesting and exciting. And we've said yes well, okay, but within the given norms that exist. So to another point that I'm concerned about, and it goes on this with equipment. I'm a little fascinated when the representative of the Christian People's Party boasts of their efforts through the Government. It is possible that we were not in the same place when we visited Kripos. But Kripos made clear that they lack equipment, that they need new things, and then maybe it doesn't last with a knowledge base alone, then something more is needed there. And as far as the equipment side is concerned, only the Progress Party has taken real responsibility here and granted the necessary funds. Finally, I must say that I am disappointed in the Minister. I think the minister was vague in his reply to my reply instead with regard to equipment investments. Also there the Government makes visible what is actually important in this context. It's no use standing here with nice words and expressing what you want and what vision you have, if you don't follow up with the necessary means. In a society like ours, the quality and policy initiatives are made visible in relation to the rightfulness of the seventh and last of the signals we give to the children, and how we treat them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1520]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e437	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has examined Document No. 3:12 for 2000–2001, which concerns the examination by the National Audit Office of the appeal proceedings by the county authorities. The purpose of this survey has been to assess the complaint handling and information activities of the counties under the Planning and Building Act and the Social Services Act. The task of the Board of Appeal of the Municipal Single Decision is an important part of the role of state officials as a judicial security body. It is therefore very important that this work be carried out in accordance with the intentions. The National Audit Office concludes in the investigation that the county authorities only meet to a small extent the objective set for the duration of proceedings in complaints. The objective is that the duration of the proceedings shall not exceed three months. The study shows that in 1999 there was only 36 pst. of the complaints under the Planning and Building Act which were dealt with within the target in three months. For 45 pst. The number of cases was more than six months. For complaints under the social services law, the situation was somewhat better, but not satisfactory here either. Only 54 pst. such cases were dealt with within three months. The Court’s assessment in the light of the investigation is that the length of the procedure means that the legal certainty of the individual complainants is not adequately ensured. The Committee is of the opinion that such a lengthy procedure could lead to frustration in complaints and that the facts about the complex could be more unclear than if the case had been dealt with while the complex was still fresh. The Committee therefore considers that, in the worst case, a long period of proceedings could jeopardise legal certainty. The study also reveals that there are very large differences between the different county offices. For example, in 1999, Østfold County had an average duration of proceedings of 12.9 months for complaints under the Planning and Building Act, compared with only 1.3 months of average proceedings in Trom County. The Committee wonders whether there are such major differences in the length of proceedings between the various offices and sees such differences as not acceptable. The Committee notes that the study shows a clear link between the extent to which the posts have established clear procedures for the review of appeal proceedings and the actual duration of proceedings. The Committee therefore takes the view that such procedures must be established at all levels of office. The Committee also wishes to focus on the role of the county council as a guide to the municipalities, and considers it essential that the offices use resources on information activities to prevent unnecessary processing time being spent on missing or incorrect transmissions from the municipalities. This study also shows that there are considerable differences between the positions in the outcome of the complaints, i.e.: whether they are repealed or transformed. The Committee finds this alarming and asks the Government to examine whether there is a major difference in practice in dealing with similar cases. The Committee finds it unfortunate that the law is practised differently in different municipalities and offices. In conclusion, the Committee notes that the Riksrevision welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Administration will follow up the county offices with a view to achieving the objective of three months' time. The Committee endorses this and asks to be kept informed of the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e463	I would like to stress that the Ministry of Labour and Administration takes this matter very seriously. We are very concerned that the county officials, as the local authority for monitoring and review, have a crucial role to play in ensuring the legal certainty of individual citizens. In general, the follow-up by the government of the county is divided between several departments, but the Ministry of Labour and Administration has the overall administrative responsibility, and we are implementing concrete measures to reduce the length of proceedings for complaints by the county officials. In connection with both St.prp. No 1 and the 2002 letter of assignment to the county councillors, we have given a specific in-depth mention of the issue of time for proceedings. We will follow up with our own follow-up letter to the county councilmen immediately after the wholesale treatment here today. We will also address the issue as a specific topic in the leadership talks that we are going to have with the individual statesmen and at the county meetings. In addition, in this year's budget, we have close to 4.5 million. to strengthen the appeal proceedings of the county councillors, including work for systematic comparison of the proceedings between the county councillors. We will keep Stortinget continuously informed about this matter. In addition, as we have announced in connection with modernisation work, we will have a full review of how we can strengthen the supervisory and review procedures for issues related to municipal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e474	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1520]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e490	The background to what we are going to discuss today is an individual matter raised on the basis of the former Councillor Karita Bekkemel Orheim's review both by the State Youth and Adoption Office, SUAK, and by the professional council in the Department when she gave a candidate couple prior consent to adoption. There was some noise in the media around this case, and the then Control and Constitutional Committee decided to take the matter up for treatment in the Stortinget. The theme was the practice of adoption laws on a principle basis, including the exercise of discretion in the first instance, which is SUAK, and in the department, which is the appeal body. At the same time, the current Monitoring and Constitutional Committee decided that the Committee’s suspension of any decision should not have retroactive effect. In other words, the preconsent given was not to be converted. The present committee was read through the documents that formed the basis for the exercise of discretion as a state council, as an appeal body, must have. It has not been done by the members of the current Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The current committee chose to continue the processing of the principal aspects of this matter. The Committee has had in-depth presentations by former Councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, by current Councillor Laila Davay and by SUAK. The Committee agrees that the guidelines for decisions on adoption matters are a good starting point for the overall and discretionary treatment of each individual application. However, weaknesses have been identified and the Committee assumes that further work will be carried out to improve the guidelines, as was also agreed by the Council of State, Laila Davay, in its letter to the Committee. The Committee strongly states that the starting point for any pre-consent must be the best of the child. Adopting is not a human right, and the child’s best interests must be ahead of the needs of adults. For SV's sake, I would like to add: in the case of foreign adoption, we have to make at least equal demands on parents as we do in the case of domestic adoption. Something else would be human sorting. Children coming from abroad may have experiences in the back pocket that make the requirement for good ability to tackle and reason by parents must be there when the difficult years, the teens, come. Research has just shown that abroad-adopted children seem to have extra major difficulties when the identity crisis comes in their teens. The treatment of adoption requests depends on three instances: work in municipalities, among others. in the preparation of the social reports, in the work of SUAK and in the final work of the Ministry in the event of an appeal against the decision. Cases may be complex and the adoption authorities may face difficult choices. It is therefore incredibly important that the competences of all these levels remain objectives. The Committee has chosen to express its opinion on the competence of the local authorities and the treatment of the ministry. On the role of municipalities in investigating applicants, SUAK – and the Committee has noted this – says that they can see several unfortunate aspects. In the opinion of the Office, individual municipalities that do not take the statutory task of writing the social report are sufficiently serious, and some municipalities do not have the necessary competence either. However, it is important to stress that both many small and many large municipalities do a good job. SUAK says in his letter that the common denominator of the good reports is partly that they have been developed by professionals with good knowledge of adoption, and partly that the case handlers of the municipalities have been thoroughly involved in relevant questions and issues. So competence is a key assumption. Competence requires experience, and it is no wonder if small municipalities with few adoption applications do not have the necessary competence. But in the SV's opinion, there is no reason to believe that this applies only to small municipalities. Time and time again, on behalf of SV, I have mentioned the following: the municipal child protection service has been marked by a large turnover – one in five or one in four has less than one year’s service. We meet many newly educated people in these tough jobs, and the municipalities are not yet responsible with the associated opportunities for continuous development of child protection competences. There is some background to the lack of competence in several municipalities, and I challenge the Council of State to address it. This must be part of the thinking when the Ministry now sees the need to develop competence in adoption matters. An overall committee calls for inter-municipal cooperation or cooperation with the protection of children at the county level in this work. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks can be done to get this done. An overall committee considers that the adoption authorities must take responsibility for the exercise of the discretion necessary to determine the case in the best interests of the child, while at the same time ensuring the legal certainty of the applicant(s). This means that a real two-way complaint procedure must be called for. An overall committee has noted that the ministry has started to look at which body is best suited to be a complaint body. However, an overall committee agrees with the former Councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim that the review of adoption requests should be outsourced by the Ministry. This is an area where judgement is to be exercised, but where good special knowledge is required at the same time. With all due respect for political leadership – and we do – it is not certain that this is an area suitable for political judgement. Where, then, shall the Board of Appeal be? The Committee points out that social inclusion can be a good option. As regards the evaluation of the earlier Council of State Karita Bekkemelm Orheim's handling of the individual matter which is the starting point for this matter we are dealing with today, the Committee has divided into two. The majority of the Committee, the SV and the Workers' Party, which chose not to enter into an assessment. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have chosen to give the Council of State a taste to varying degrees. I'm sure these parties will make preparations for that. Regarding the position of SV, I would like to say the following: We believe that there are good reasons to ask the questions that the Right and Christian People's Party have asked, namely why the Council of State chose to review the assessments of SUAK and a professional selection. Several of us asked the same questions when the matter was up last year and last summer. But – and I stress it – this committee has not seen the background documents and therefore has no basis for assessing the discretion of the state council. Nor do we think there is any point in doing so, all the time that treatment today should not have or have retroactive effect. Now it's about doing that we're facilitating that all adoption cases are properly dealt with at all instances. We have requested that the Council of State orientate the Stortinget in an appropriate manner when the results of the ministry's work in this area are available. This will allow Storting to assess whether the measures are good enough to ensure that all adoption cases have the best starting point for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e520	As the rapporteur said, it was a concrete matter which prompted the Committee on Control and Constitution to carry out a review of the practice of the adoption law. The specific case was closed by the Committee and the current committee has not dealt with the documents or the matter at all. In the summer of 2001, the then committee decided to take up the practice of the adoption law as a matter of principle. The current committee has continued this work, as this case was not concluded during the previous control and constitution committee. Of course, there is total agreement in all the environments in question, in the Committee, in the Department of Trade, etc., that adoption should have the best of the child as the only guide. Of course, there is also agreement that no one has a right to adopt a child unless conditions are entirely appropriate. On the other hand, those who wish to adopt shall be ensured that the assessment of their assumptions for adoption is correct and in all respects sound. Legal certainty must therefore be ensured in a normal way. It is the State Youth and Adoption Office which is the first instance of the treatment and which represents the heaviest professional environment in these kinds of cases. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs shall constitute the Board of Appeal or Appeal. The Committee's review shows that the consideration of adoption matters is satisfactory but that there may be improvement points. Both the Ministry of Trade and the Committee agree to this. In particular, there are two areas in which the Committee has established itself. One is the competence and capacity of municipalities to do the necessary preparatory work to enable decision-making bodies to carry out their assessment properly, it is the ability of municipalities to produce the relevant social reports, etc., and here we see great variation. As the rapporteur said, small municipalities with a small trade union environment can be involved, there can be large tours in these positions in the municipalities, etc. However, the main thing is that the quality of this work generally needs to be improved. Secondly, we have looked at the location of the Board of Appeal. For its part, the Committee has concluded that the Board of Appeal should be assessed outside the Ministry of Trade. Doing so would mean weakening or completely disappearing political transparency and control of these matters, leading to the need for some stronger clarifications in the law. However, there is something that we will get back to if it should become relevant. The Council of State is in the process of evaluating these issues, and the Committee has asked that the Grand Duchy be properly informed once these assessments have been made and the work of the Council of State has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e537	I would first like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a thorough and balanced presentation of the matter. I have to admit that this matter has not been quite simple, because – as it has been explained – the starting point was a specific matter with which the former State Council, Bekkemel Orheim, had a position. Now, it is true that the Committee has not gone too far in assessing this case, but at the same time, through the examination of the case, we have become familiar with a significant part of the correspondence and assessments that the former political leadership made in the case, so that we know significant parts of the evidence base. Now it's also true that in relation to a single matter, we have to be very careful both in the committee and not least here in plenary so as not to get hurt in order to say something that should and should be out of the question. We're all going to be careful with that. But once we have delivered the setting we have, where we stand on important points in the committee, but at one point divide us, I'm going to tell you why we in the right do it. Firstly, it is this way – and here everyone has been clear – that it is the best thing for the child to be the starting point and the decisive factor for the conclusion in these kinds of cases, not the parents’ needs, that adopting should not be a right for anyone. It's a very important starting point. I also think it is important to be aware of a dilemma, and it goes a little bit about how to organise this work in the future – and then to the current government – that, of course, on the one hand, one should try to have closeness and local knowledge in assessing the care and qualifications of applicants as future adoption parents, but on the other hand one must be careful not to get so close that one in a way is unable to have the necessary distance from the applicants in relation to acquaintance bands, friendship bands or whatever it may be. Especially in small municipalities, there is a greater danger that such things may occur than in municipalities that are larger, possibly municipalities cooperating on these types of assessments. Local knowledge is important, but proximity must not get too close. So I also think it is important that we do not treat Norway as a nation when dealing with these kinds of issues – when I say we, I think of Norway as a nation – in a way that can discredit Norway abroad. There's a danger. If individual politicians or parties persecute their political leaders too far in these kinds of cases, we may be harmed to discredit Norway in relation to other countries that are about to release children for adoption in Norway. I think it's important to be aware of that. So a few words in the end about this with the Bekkemelm Orheim's review of the professional advice at the State Youth and Adoption Office. Through the correspondence we have received, and have been made aware of, it emerges that the State Youth and Adoption Office held that there was such a doubt that the conclusion in the case in question should and should have been rejected. Former State Councillor Bekkelem Orheim has also admitted in her opinions to the Committee that this was a difficult and complicated matter, and that she was in doubt because of it. But her conclusion was, however, consent. This is where I mean for my part it's limping. To the extent that there is a doubt of careability in these kinds of cases, that doubt should benefit the child, not the applicants, because the child is the weak party and has a need for protection. Therefore, we conclude as we do in our comments that are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e554	This case, which is based on a single case and an alarm from Liven Arner in SUAK, cannot be seen isolated from the general political debate in this area. It is a political debate on who should be able to approve and have the opportunity to adopt children. In some political circles — and former government councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim has also attended, at least she has been a prominent debater — the question is whether adoption of children should be extended not only to married couples but also to cohabitants, then whether it should be extended to gay cohabitants who have entered into a partnership, and whether it should be extended to allow access also for unanimity. This case cannot be seen isolated from this issue. In the issue I now drew up, it's the consideration of the parents who are actually put in the high seat, which is the starting point. And it's when there's a twist where you put more and more emphasis on parents' needs and want to have a child, that the question of balance comes up. That is why I am very pleased that Kjell Engebretsen so clearly stated that in these questions the ‘only guide’, as he said, should be ‘the best of the child’. It is also true that as long as you have a situation where there are more couples who want to adopt children than there are children available, Section 2 of the Conventions and the Law on the Child’s Best Practice means that you choose on the top shelf. If you have ten couples and one child, and you take into account the child's best, you give the child to one of the ten couples where there is the greatest chance and the best chance that the child will have a good home. That doesn't mean that not the other nine pairs can be completely right, but if the child's best is the starting point, you choose the best on the top shelf. And there was an alarm that there was a tendency to put much more emphasis on the parents' – or we'll say the looking couples' – needs that were a bit of the reason for the alarm that came in this particular case. In the correspondence dance and the documents, I did not experience it as Martin Engeset said, that SUAK was in doubt. SUAK was not in doubt. SUAK was quite clear that the applicant in this case could not be granted. There was no doubt! That's what, in our opinion, makes this case serious. There was no doubt in the experts – and after the documents – that rejection should be granted. Then it is all the more serious when, even after private enquiries from those who were close to the applicants, a political Council of State agreed to the application for clear, unambiguous advice of the experts. The matter is of course closed, as I have said. But it was nice to get it treated. This is a kind of uprising, at least I would say, for Liven Arner, who got a lot of countermeasures, also from superiors, because she had allowed herself to say from – and from high – that there was an ongoing development that was contrary to the law when it came to the exercise of discretion. I assume that it has been emphatically stopped with the setting that exists here, and with the debate that has now been. And once again, I would like to stress what the Workers' Party spokesman, Kjell Engebretsen, said that the only guide is the best of the child. In my opinion, it would mean that if there is any doubt as to whether any applicants are to be approved as adoptive parents, no authorisation shall be granted. In the old two-institutional system, which is still there, I think the only sensible practice of it is that if SUAK says yes, the Council of State might say no. But if SUAK says no, no political council should say yes within a system where the child's best interests are to be taken into account. It is also clear that in all such discretionary matters – and I would not say that is done in this case at all – it should be such that government councils should be roughly spared support letters to a party that may later be perceived as having done a friend service. In this respect, state councils should be somewhat protected – if possible under our law – from receiving letters, whether from batches or from others with whom contact has been made, because in retrospect this can be used to question the cause. I stress that in this case at all, I have no reason to claim that it had any significance for the decision. Finally, I have a question to the Council of State. It is also based on something that the committee has written unanimously. Here I have to correct my committee colleague, Kjell Engebretsen, who did not quote quite correctly – i.e. there was no quote. In the Committee's opinion, the text is set out in the second column of page 3: ‘The Committee considers that the review of applications for adoption should be delegated by the Ministry to a stand-alone and independent body.’ Kjell Engebretsen was injured to say that the Committee had asked for a ‘assessment’ to be carried out on appeal proceedings outside the Ministry. No, the committee has not said anything about evaluation. The Committee has concluded that the review procedure should be delegated by the Ministry to a stand-alone and independent body. My question to the Council of State is: How long will it take for this work to be completed? When she expects to come back to Stortinget not only with an orientation, but with a concrete proposal for the creation of a stand-alone and independent body. So I don't want the Council of State to come here and give us any information that the work is going on, that a sample is being reduced, and that they are assessing. No, there shall be no sample, and it shall not be assessed! The Committee has unanimously agreed that it should be a stand-alone and independent body. When does the proposal for the establishment of such a stand-alone and independent body to enter the place of the department as an appeal body for this type of case come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e584	When I tried in my post to show that this matter had been difficult for many, and tried to prove that the matter was not completely black-and-white and the conclusions were not quite obvious, I referred, among other things. to what the State Youth and Adoption Office had said. Then it's kind of festive as the first travel guy in this country's national assembly to be able to take Carl I, Hagen, the ring to see that he hasn't done the homework. The point is that it is clear from the case documents which the Committee has been dealing with, that the State Youth and Adoption Office in a note states that: ‘Despite the positive social report and the positive opinion of the municipal doctor, we found at the first reading that there was such a doubt that the conclusion was rejected.’ It has obviously not been brought with it by the representative Hagen, but that is what I laid down and based myself on in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e594	That's probably what's in that document. I may not have done the homework and studied the document, but I can only regret that. I am in the somewhat difficult situation that I was in the former control committee, where we also had hearings. This kind of office isn't human. There are people who in case are in doubt, and there are people who exercise discretion. An office doesn't. But I know very well that when offices write something, they always pack their opinions into cotton. In the light of conversations with the people involved in the hearings we had, I'm sure my presentation was more correct, but I'm glad to admit that Martin Engeset is on the dry side of the official way in which this has been expressed from an office. But otherwise, as the President knows, I deal more with people's views and what they say than with offices that wrap their views into cotton – at least when I find it appropriate. Martin Engeset will probably also eventually start to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e603	It's not up to the president to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e606	The representative Hagen also used the opportunity to get into the general debate on society. That is why I feel the need to correct Mr Hagen's wording on some points, because it is not the case today that the public can assess on the top shelf who is going to adopt. That is exactly what the debate on equality for the law on this issue is all about. No one has ever said that anyone should have the right to adopt, but the question is whether the State should have the opportunity to assess anyone who wants to apply for an opportunity to adopt. We know that adoptive children are more vulnerable than children in general. We know that there are a number of risk factors for adoption. But the question is whether to pick out some of these risk factors and say that, for example, sexual orientation should not be considered at all. Other risk factors should be considered. If it is to be possible to choose on the top shelf, if it is to be possible to choose at the best of the child, then everyone must be assessed and that assessment must be strict and fair. But the representative Hagen's wish to choose on the top shelf is not in line with the practice he advocates in what kind of legislation you should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e615	It is clear that this debate must be debated when we may need to consider changes to the law, because – if not I am completely wrong – it must change the laws in order, for example, to: gay couples shall have access to adoption. Today, it's reserved for heterophilic couples. If you're going to expand access, it's a discussion that we obviously have to take. But within the framework of the law today, it's actually the normal thing to adopt is that there are couples who are considered adoptive parents. I don't quite remember the legal texts, I have to admit it. It is now extended to registered couples as far as I understand. But if you want to extend access further, it's a different debate, and we'll have to take it when that time comes. However, in today's legislation, the most qualified are chosen from among those who meet the requirements of the law and the discretionary judgement. To date, a number of potential applicants have been selected to meet the requirements. That doesn't mean you can't discuss whether to allow others to adopt. I'm not of that opinion. I'm of the opinion that the most sensible thing is to choose heterophilic couples. It is at least for the child's best to have a stable relationship with his or her future parents. That's for me what serves the child's best. But we're going to have to take that debate in a different context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e625	This thing is about to become a replay here in the house. It also tells us that a matter of adoption is very important to that debt. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that a child who cannot live with his biological parents or with a family in his home country has the right to live with a family in another country. This is how between 500 and 600 children come to Norway every year to live with a Norwegian family. For each of these children and for each family, this is a big event and the start of something lifelong. Adoption gives a child a new family forever. The main principle of all adoption is, and must always be, the child's best, something that several speakers have underlined here today. Adults must never go ahead of a child’s needs. This is firmly anchored both in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoption. It is not a human right to have children, but children have the right to parents. Adopt parents must have the ability to give an adoptive child a safe and harmonious upbringing. Dramatic experiences in the early years of life may lead to an adoptive child being able to be affected for years to come. Such assessments must always be included when assessing a home, and when applicants, both individually and collectively, are to be recognised as caregivers for an unknown and sometimes demanding adoptive child. The issue we have to deal with today is the principle of adoption matters. Although there have been regulatory improvements and improvements in the use of legislation in this area, there is still room for improvement in the form, competence and complaint procedures. The Christian People's Party is not against the idea of being able to profit from such things as this. There must always be room for a healthy discretion in such matters. No matter how good we rule, there must be room for a holistic judgment in each individual case. In the special case of More and Romesdal, which is the basis for the treatment today, the present state council tried decisions both in SUAK and in Professional Selection. In addition, she has expressed doubts about the matter. As I understand the Hague Convention, any doubts shall benefit the child – in other words, the application shall be rejected. In any case, the principle that an adoption should be beneficial to the child must be entitled to pre-emption.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e646	I have received two questions to answer – one related to competence and cooperation and one related to the Ministry’s further proceedings. I agree that many municipalities need a more systematic build-up of competence in the field of adoption, and we are working on this. We have explained in the committee that we are now finishing work on new guidelines for the examination of applications for adoption, both in the field of domestic and foreign adoption. In parallel, we are also working on simplifying and improving the form used when applying for adoption. Among other things, we have focused on developing a new form to ensure the quality of the social reports of municipalities, which I consider very important. The specific challenges raised by foreign adoption are made visible in the guidelines for studies for the approval of adoption homes. A separate guidebook for the preparation of municipal social reports will focus on the issues that need to be addressed and discussed in depth with the applicants. As an important measure in the ongoing work on a competence plan to strengthen the knowledge of adoption, we have decided to develop a framework for the adoption preparatory course, including for those who wish to adopt. We also work with a separate information package specifically intended for the municipal proceedings in adoption cases. The relationship with child protection: today it is up to the municipalities to decide for themselves how to organise the investigation of adoption applicants. In many municipalities, this work has been carried out in connection with the municipal child protection service, because we see that child protection and adoption are professionally linked with each other with a very high level of common competence that it is important to exploit one another. Maybe we should look at this even more closely than what we've done now. I also agree that it may be appropriate to organise investigative work in the field of adoption in a more inter-municipal cooperation, at least where the municipalities are very small. There is a lot of inter-municipal cooperation in child protection in several places today, and we are following this work with great interest. It seems to have been very successful some places, among other things. in North Hordland. Finally, as regards the procedure, we aim to send out a consultation note on the organisation of the review procedure when applying for adoption as soon as possible during the first six months of this year. It will then be at the disposal of which body is best placed to carry out the tasks of the Board of Appeal. And as soon as we get back to the hearing bodies' views on this, we will make a proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e665	The rapporteur and several others took up most of the key points in their introductions, namely that there is a great lack of competence in small municipalities, and that there is a large ‘tourover’ among others. from case handlers. Now there is also a large number of ‘turnovers’ among some politicians, both in this room and in the departments. And when it comes to some complex issues, both actual and legal, such as a law of law of adoption, it is all the more important that governments with different political fundamentals keep their tongues in their mouths, and relate to the law and intentions that were when the law was passed. I think that's a good delivery gel. I am seriously concerned that the outside world is now getting a more negative view of Norway as a country transferring adoptive children to, among other things. was created by the former councillor, Bekkemel Orheim, who questioned whether it was the best of the child who had been placed in the high seat. She has even implicitly admitted that she was in doubt. If in doubt, the application for adoption should as a general rule be rejected. If, unfortunately, something pointed out is such that, by biological means, some people should preferably not have children when looking at a number of other problems in society, there is all the greater reason why you, as a legislator in the Stortinget, and in the Department, do not encourage you to make the same mistake in adoption matters. In the case of Mr Hagen's comments, the reason why the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have not gone as far as the Progress Party in its comments is, among other things. that the right sees the need for some to be given a discretion. And I've said it earlier in this room: already in the 1800s, you went away from almost all possible possibilities, actions, prohibitions and injunctions. Even 165 representatives in this house are not quite clear about all the facts you need to subscribe in the individual case. I think that even 165 representatives have a big problem thinking in advance. I also think that the representative Hagen is pulling it a little too far – now he modified himself after Hall Arnøy’s posts – in terms of the term ‘best of the child’. I think it's going a little far to put strong and weak disabled and lonely in unstable conditions in the same booth as two adults, well-qualified caregivers, for example. two homosexuals in a partnership. Me and the Right chose not to comment on Liven Arner and SUAK's case. We believe that this matter belongs outside this hall. But I am not convinced that the debate that took place was based solely on professional judgement in relation to the best of the child. But the Christian People's Party and the Right fully agree with the Advancement Party: it is the child's best and definitely not the needs of adults who will form the starting point for later drafting an adoption law. We're going to get back to that. If you see that it can be in the best interests of your child in a specific matter, for example: two in partnership can adopt children, I actually interpret Carl I. Hagen yours that this is not an unimaginable thought for him. It would have been good to know for a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e678	As others have pointed out in the debate, there was a single matter from Mr More and Mr Romsdal which was the basis of the decision to deal with matters at the time of the impending Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. A joint committee says that individual cases have been closed from the Committee’s side. But what's important here is that this single case has raised some fundamental issues that it's important and necessary to debate. The centre party is not part of the control and constitution committee, but we agree with what a collective committee says that the guidelines for decisions in adoption applications are a good starting point for the holistic and discretionary handling of each individual application. We also agree that those responsible for the adoption cases must also take responsibility for exercising the discretion necessary to decide a matter for the child’s best, but also to ensure the legal security of the applicants. There is no doubt that adoption matters can be difficult. Various considerations shall be considered and weighed up against each other, and difficult choices shall be taken. Therefore, it may not be strong enough that there must never be any doubt that the starting point of these matters must be the best for the child. At the same time as the child’s best starting point, it is also necessary to ensure legal certainty for the seekers. But I think that the real two-institutional management that an applicant who has a complaint has a claim for the administration law covers the legal security that the applicants are entitled to. The two-institutional management is important. When the Board of Appeal is also required to try out all aspects of the case and take care of new information, there should be certainty that the applicants' courts are properly provided. I think it's positive that the department will consider the new preconsent guidelines for adoption. As a result, any weak aspects of the legislation may be corrected. I also found it positive that there is an assessment of which body is most likely to carry out the task as a complaint body. I think there are very good arguments that speak for the appeal body to be outside the ministry. That is why the Group of the European People's Party fully supports what our committee has concluded here. However, even with good guidelines for dealing with adoption issues, and even with good competence in municipalities and defence-related management and design of social reports, adoption matters will still be difficult. There will be cases where, throughout the process, there will be doubts as to whether the applicants meet the strict requirements for care required by the adoption law. In such cases, it must not be forgotten that the child’s best starting point is to be. According to my opinion and the opinion of the Centre, it must be such that, where there is strong doubt that the applicants meet the strict requirements for care ability, the applications should, as a general rule, be rejected. And in cases where there is doubt, the Center Party believes, as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have expressed in the comments, that there is reason to ask questions about whether it is right for a Council of State to review its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e693	It's like everyone in this room seems to be very agreed on the substance of this matter, and then we can discuss a little bit of detail, history and stuff. We agree that the best thing for the child is the guide. But that's not easy, because we're not facing any exact science here. We got a good example of it when the representative Carl I. Hagen was up here and said that for his part was a heterophilic couple, I think he said – now I'm not quoting, but it was something like that – the best. It must mean that other relationships with other applicants, based on that understanding, will be downplayed, and that being a heterophile and being a married couple in itself is of such value that it goes ahead. We may have different attitudes to what makes the situation the best for the child, but it has to be the guide. So it's not unusual for the appeals board to reverse a decision in the appeal board. In 1999 and 2000, 56 appeals were dealt with, of which 19 were converted. If you look at this, you say here: ‘The Ministry’s impression is that it is particularly in three areas that the Ministry and SUAK have exercised their discretion somewhat differently. This has been the case in cases where the grounds for refusal in SUAK have been the age of applicants, further on in cases where applicants already have a high level of care and when applying for the sole and assessment of the applicant’s special resources in relation to children.’ I'm just mentioning this to show that you're facing an exercise of discretion in these matters. The representative, Ringstad, concluded his speech by saying that adoption matters are and will be difficult matters to exercise discretion in, and we can exercise different judgements. That's the way it is. This is a difficult matter, and it requires as much expertise and experience as possible to make it as good as it can be. What's not going to happen is that we get a situation where you attach a special right to the applicants, that now it's time that this group is also allowed to adopt, or now it's the kind of thinking and the kind of assessment. It's not supposed to happen. In substance, the best interests of the child must be at stake. But we have to understand that the exercise of this notion of what will be the best of the child, we will also later disagree, no matter what model we choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e716	I agreed with all the essentials of what Kjell Engretsen said, and perhaps especially the last, that we must not get away from this, which is the main idea, that it is the best of the child that is to be laid down and be the only guide, and that one should be careful when it comes to enlargement. So it was my committee colleague André Dahl who well interpreted me a bit far, not to say quite far, and that I would like to correct, because he suggests that he is going to invoke my statements in later debates, and then it would be wrong if he used his own interpretation there. I have to admit that I belong to a little bit of the old school. I'm starting to get up at that age as well. And to me, it's like this -- and now I'm talking personally -- and I think it should be that adoption of children was something heterophobic couples could do. Now we are in a difficult debate. Now we're going into the a-equation, the b-equity, the c-equity, and then we're going to have a new form soon that's going to be called the d-equity. I see it so that if you want the benefit of being married, you get married. If you want the advantage of being a roommate, you get to be a roommate. But when there's a part that's trying to get the benefits of being a spouse without getting any negative things, I'm starting to react. And now we have a debate that concerns just this. On the news today this morning, we heard that we are now going to have registered cohabitations that will result in both obligations and rights. Yes, then we will get someone who would like to be a cohabiter, but who does not want to register. So then you get married couples under the marriage law, the a relationship, you get the registered consensual relationship, the b relationship, which has some of the things that also couples have, and then you get the new group c, which won't register, and then you lose out on the benefits and disadvantages of the registered couples, and then there's probably some of these that are in the c group, which feels it's bad that they don't have the benefits of belonging to the b group, and then we get another new group. Then it would have been better to say in legislation and in all areas of society: we shouldn't focus on how people organize their lives, but if you want the benefits of being a spouse, you also have to have the disadvantages. And then we have spouses and we have roommates. So now we get a whole range of different ratios -- it's just going to be a vortex. Now I also speak in person: I think it would have been much more sensible for society if you had had the old -- either you were a roommate, with all the advantages and disadvantages it gives, or you were a spouse, with the advantages and disadvantages it brings. The most stable, however, has been the couple, and therefore I would have said that as long as there are many enough adoptive parents, they should be given priority first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e740	We then vote in favour of the issues listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07.ana.ud1617e793	There is no record.
